To
be
the world’s most preferred and leading cocoa par
tner
To
be the leading supplier of cocoa ingredients
Exploring New Frontiers
Sustaining Growth
Integrated Annual Report 2021
200401007722 (646226-K)
18th
Eighteenth
Annual General
Meeting
PLO 207, Jalan Tembaga Satu,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor
Monday
30 May 2022
10 a.m.
Scan the QR Code or view our Integrated
Annual Report PDF online version at
https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/
annual-reports
Corporate Governance &
Compliance
82 Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
94 Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
100 Audit Committee Report
102 Risk Management Committee
Report
104 Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106 Directors’ Report
112 Statement by Directors
112 Statutory Declaration
113 Independent Auditors’ Report
117 Statements of Financial Position
119 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
121 Statements of Changes in Equity
124 Statements of Cash Flows
127 Notes to the Financial
Statements
Others	
216 List of Properties
221 Other Compliance Information
222 Analysis of Shareholdings
225 Analysis of Warrantholdings
227 Notice of Annual General
Meeting
234 Administrative Details
Proxy Form
Overview
2 About this Report
Introduction
4 Introduction
6 Snapshot of FY2021: Financial
and Non-Financial Performance
Highlights
7 Corporate Information
9 Our Vision, Mission, Values and
Promises
10 Corporate Structure
11 Corporate Principal Activities,
Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and
Market Positioning
12 Products Introduction
13 Where We Operate
Statement from Leader
14 Chairman’s Statement
20 Directors’ Profile
24 Profile of Key Senior
Management
Management Discussion &
Analysis
I.	Strategic Review
26 Market Overview & Outlook
28 Value Creation Business Model
30 Key Stakeholder Engagement
32 Material Matters
34 Key Risks and Risks Mitigation
Actions
38 Growth Strategies
II. Financial Performance Review
40 Financial Performance Review
III.	Operational Performance
Review
45 Operational Performance
Review
Sustainability report
46 Sustainability Highlights in
FY2021
47 Reporting Practice
49 Sustainability Statement
51 Sustainability Governance
54 Stakeholder Engagement
55 Materiality Assessment
GCB’s Sustainability Topics
57 Economic Performance
58 Market Presence
59 Energy
63 Waste
66 Environmental Compliance
67 Employment
72 Occupational Health & Safety
75 Additional Featured Section
77 Good Cocoa & Beyond - GCB’s
Cocoa Sustainability Strategy
79 GRI Content Index
Contents
Table of
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
2 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
About This Report
We are proud to present our first
Integrated Annual Report, an inclusive
narrative of how we generate and sustain
value within Guan Chong Berhad. This
report is part of a broader reporting
framework which includes:
Integrated Annual Report
Provides a comprehensive yet concise overview of
our value creation process, performance in FY2021,
outlook for the future, growth strategies and risk
mitigation actions. Details how we are creating long-
term, sustainable value through good governance and
by embedding economic, environmental and social
sustainability into our growth strategies.
Disclosures guided by:
• The International <IR> Framework January 2021
issued by Value Reporting Foundation
• Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements
• Bursa Malaysia Corporate Governance Guide (4th
edition)
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021
issued by Securities Commission Malaysia
• Malaysian Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
Our Integrated Annual Report is available for download
at www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports.
Sustainability Report
Provides a comprehensive report of our performance
in relation to economic, environmental and social
sustainability issues that are material to the Group and
our stakeholders.
Disclosures guided by:
• Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide
(2nd Edition)
• Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements
• Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Sustainability
Reporting Standards
Scope & Boundary:
• This report extends beyond financial reporting
to include non-financial performance and our
achievements as a Group.
• It covers the period from 1 January 2021 to 31
December 2021 and builds on our previous
publications.
Forward-looking Statements:
• This report contains certain forward-looking
statements, relating to information on future
directions, strategies, potential risks, actions to
mitigate risks and our performance.
• These statements involve uncertainty as they
describe future events and are not conclusive. Actual
implementation and results may differ depending on
various risk factors and market uncertainties, which
may be unforeseeable.
• The inclusion of forward-looking statement in this
report should not be regarded as a representation or
warranty that the Group’s plans and objectives will be
achieved. Readers should not place undue reliance
on such forward-looking statements, and we do not
undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise
any forward-looking statements.
Stakeholder Relationships and Materiality:
• We apply the principles of Stakeholder Relationships
and the concept of Materiality to define and
substantiate what creates value for the Group.
• This means understanding and responding to the
needs of our stakeholders and material matters that
significantly impact our ability to create value.
• Accordingly, we have identified five material matters
(refer to ‘Material Matters’ on page 32), and our five key
stakeholders (refer to ‘Key Stakeholder Engagement’
on page 30).
Additional information on our robust corporate
governance framework, organisational policies and
codes of conduct can be found on our Group website at
www.gcbcocoa.com/content/corporate-governance.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 3
About This Report (Cont’d)
Our Capitals:
Value Creation:
Our value creation business model on page 28 contextualises how each of the
capitals is deployed, in alignment with our business strategies and our internal
governance and systems, to generate beneficial outputs and outcomes for the
Group and our stakeholders.
Read more: Value Creation Business Model, page 28
Risk Categories:
The risks detailed in this report are segmented into four categories based on
their area of impact. Please refer to “Key Risks and Risk Mitigation Actions” on
page 34 for more details.
Strategic Risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group,
but have a significant impact on our strategic decisions or
activities.
Operational Unfortunate events that have the potential to disrupt our day-
to-day operations and processes of the Group.
Financial Risks that have a direct financial impact on the Group.
Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the countries
where the Group is in operation, that may result in financial
penalties, reputational damage or even revocation of business
licenses.
Read more: Key Risks and Risk Mitigation Actions, page 34
With the overarching aim of effectively detailing what constitutes value to our Group, and how it is created and
sustained, this report uses the globally recognised ‘Six Capitals’ based on the <IR> Framework.
Financial Capital
Our financial assets and pool of
funds to support the value creation
process.
Human Capital
Our skilful workforce, and their
experience and competencies in
alignment to our growth strategies.
Manufactured Capital
Our factories, machinery and other
physical assets that support our
business strategies.
Social & Relationship Capital
The relationships we maintain
with our stakeholders to enhance
individual and collective well-being.
Intellectual Capital
Our brand values, reputation,
collective knowledge, and our
systematic processes and procedures.
Natural Capital
The natural resources we utilise in
our processes to create value.
Statement of Board Responsibility:
The Board acknowledges its
responsibility of ensuring the integrity
of this report, which in the Board’s
opinion addresses all the issues that
are material to the Group’s ability
to create value and fairly presents
the financial and non-financial
performance of the Group.
The Board, supported by a dedicated
reporting team, has applied its
collective efforts towards the
preparation and presentation of this
Integrated Annual Report, which
has been prepared and presented in
accordance with the International
<IR> Framework January 2021 issued
by the Value Reporting Foundation.
This Integrated Annual Report was
approved by the Group’s Board of
Directors on 5 April 2022.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
4 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Introduction
Who We Are
Guan Chong Berhad was incorporated in Malaysia as a
public limited company on 22nd March 2004 and listed on
the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia on 8th April 2005.
Our business activities primarily comprise the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients, namely cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come
in dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid
form. Our cocoa products are sold under the trademark
of “FAVORICH” - meaning “High in Flavour” and “Rich in
Colour”. Meanwhile, our industrial chocolate products are
sold under the trademark of “SCHOKINAG”.
Ambitious expansion plans have propelled us to become
one of the world’s leaders in our industry. Specifically,
with the acquisition of SCHOKINAG Holding GmbH
(“SCHOKINAG”) in 2020, we gained a strong presence in
the European industrial chocolate market, bolstered by
SCHOKINAG’s rich history over 90 years. Furthermore,
our acquisitions enable us to diversify our business from
the cocoa-derived ingredient market alone to serving the
consumer chocolate market as well.
To drive our continuous growth, we are currently
developing a new cocoa grinding facility in Ivory Coast and
a chocolate production facility in the United Kingdom, to
add to our existing facilities in Malaysia, Indonesia, Germany
and the United States.
Our History
The story of Guan Chong speaks to the value of a clear
vision and a well-defined plan for growth, charting our
expansion from being a small cocoa trader in the 1980s
to a leading multinational player in the global cocoa and
chocolate industry today.
In 1985, we started processing cocoa beans in Parit Jawa,
Muar, Johor. We then sold the plant and built a new one in
the Pasir Gudang Industrial Area under our subsidiary, Guan
Chong Cocoa Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd. From just 6,000 MT
in bean grinding capacity at the beginning of the plant’s life,
continuous capacity expansion and a culture of innovation
have since enabled us to become the top cocoa processor
in Asia. Today, we boast a total annual bean grinding
capacity of 277,000MT worldwide, with our products
gaining wide acceptance in local and international markets.
Milestones
On Our
Journey
Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer Sdn.
Bhd. is incorporated.
Our Pasir Gudang factory is built, thereby
expanding our processing capacity.
The FAVORICH brand is established and
trademarked.
Guan Chong Berhad is incorporated as a
public listed company.
Guan Chong Berhad acquired Carlyle
Cocoa Co., LLC, a value-added cocoa cake
grinding facility in Delaware, United States.
We achieved an annual capacity of
60,000MT.
Expanded our footprint beyond Malaysia,
we established a presence in Indonesia
and Singapore through PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia and GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte
Ltd.
We established a wide-ranging joint venture
with SMC Food21 Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., a
leading sugar, milk and cocoa blender.
1985
1991
1995
2005
2007
2010
2015
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 5
Introduction (Cont’d)
Where We Stand Today
In our continuous quest for growth and expansion in the
global cocoa industry, our total annual grinding capacity
reached 277,000MT as of the end of FY2021. This was made
possible due to investments in new machineries and the
expansion of our facilities in Pasir Gudang, Malaysia, which
now boast a grinding capacity of 150,000MT. Meanwhile,
our facility in Batam, Indonesia contributes 120,000MT in
grinding capacity and our facility in Mannheim, Germany
contributes 7,000MT in grinding capacity up to cocoa
mass.
Looking to the future, we are set to capture an even
bigger share of the global cocoa-derived ingredient and
chocolate market through strategic acquisitions and
facility developments. Our new cocoa processing facility
in Ivory Coast will expand the Group’s total annual grinding
capacity to 337,000MT upon its full completion, while also
providing close proximity to major chocolate consuming
markets in Europe. Meanwhile, by acquiring SCHOKINAG,
we gained 90,000MT in annual capacity for the production
of industrial chocolates and 7,000MT in annual grinding
capacity up to cocoa mass, aiding our move to become
an integrated chocolate producer and serve consumer
chocolate markets.
Furthermore, following the announcement of our major
expansion into Europe, we are able to make connections
with 
a number of European customers through
SCHOKINAG. In addition, with the establishment of GCB
Cocoa UK Limited (“GCBCUK”), we have further expanded
our customer base in the United Kingdom.
We acquired Koko Budi Sdn. Bhd., a
cocoa processing plant and subsequently
renamed to GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.’s annual
capacity is then increased to 50,000MT,
making us the top cocoa grinder in Asia
and one of the top four cocoa grinders in
the world by production volume.
Marked our first major expansion beyond
our shores outside of Asia, GCB Cocoa
Côte d’Ivoire is established, enabling us
to directly source cocoa beans from the
world’s largest cocoa producing country.
We joined the World Cocoa Foundation
(WCF), aligning our practices with global
sustainable cocoa standards.
GCB Cocoa UK Limited is established,
alongside the acquisition of Schokinag
Holding GmbH, an industrial chocolate
manufacturer from Germany.
GCB Cocoa Europe B.V. and GCB Cocoa
Trading Côte d’Ivoire are established,
laying the groundwork for more cost-
efficient supply of cocoa ingredients from
Ivory Coast directly to our operations in
Germany and the United Kingdom.
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
6 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Our Financial Performance
Continuing our trend of steady year-on-year growth, Group-wide revenue rose by 6.5% in FY2021. However, our net profit
decreased by 30.5% mainly due to weaker butter ratio during the year and one-off gain on the disposal of an associate
company in FY2020. Read more about our financial performance within the Financial Statements section of this report.
Read more: Financial Performance Review, page 40
Our Non-Financial Performance
In FY2021, we increased our annual cocoa grinding capacity by 20,000MT to a total of 277,000MT across our worldwide
production facilities. We were also crowned the Company of the Year Award in food manufacturing and were recognised
for our exemplary community care initiatives at the Sustainability and CSR Malaysia Awards.
RM3,923.3
million
14.86
sen
Revenue
Earnings
per share
RM196.8
million
RM1,342.3
million
Profit
before tax
Shareholders’
equity
RM154.8
million
0.92
times
Net profit
Net
gearing ratio
Snapshot of FY2021:
Financial and Non-Financial Performance Highlights
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 7
Corporate Information
Tan Ah Lai
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Re-designated on 15 April 2021)
Tay Hoe Lian
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer
Hia Cheng
Executive Director/Chief Financial Officer
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Ang Nyee Nyee
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Re-designated as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Hia Cheng
Chairman, Executive Director
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Ang Nyee Nyee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Ang Nyee Nyee
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Ang Nyee Nyee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Chairman, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
Ang Nyee Nyee
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Independent Non-Executive Director
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
8 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Information (Cont’d)
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Ceased as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
Secretaries
Ng Mei Wan (MIA 28862)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000801)
Tan Hui Khim (LS 0009936)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000859)
REGISTERED OFFICE
No. 7 (1st Floor) Jalan Pesta 1/1
Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1
Jalan Bakri
84000 Muar Johor
Tel : 06-954 1705
Fax : 06-954 1707
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
PLO 273 Jalan Timah 2
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang
81700 Pasir Gudang Johor
Tel : 07-254 8888
Fax : 07-251 1711
Website : www.gcbcocoa.com
SHARE REGISTRARS
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199601006647 (378993-D)
11th Floor Menara Symphony
No. 5 Jalan Semangat (Jalan Professor Khoo Kay Kim)
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
Tel : 03-7890 4700
Fax : 03-7890 4670
AUDITORS
BDO PLT (LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206)
Chartered Accountants
Suite 18-04 Level 18 Menara Zurich
15 Jalan Dato’ Abdullah Tahir
80300 Johor Bahru Johor
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Alliance Bank Malaysia Berhad
AmBank Berhad
Bangkok Bank Berhad
Bank Of China (Malaysia) Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch
DBS Bank Limited
HL Bank Singapore
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
Maybank Singapore Limited
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited
RHB Bank Berhad
Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
SOLICITORS
Chee Siah Le Kee & Partners
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name : GCB
Stock Code : 5102
DATE OF LISTING
8 April 2005
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 9
Our Vision, Mission, Values & Promises
our Vision
To be the world’s most preferred and
leading cocoa partner.
our Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to deliver quality cocoa and chocolates while offering
utmost flexibility and attention. Through forming strong alliances with local partners,
we are dedicated to serving our customers worldwide and growing together with them
in long-term partnerships.
our VALUES
Grit Ambition Sincerity
our Promises
Full Product Range
Providing an extensive product
range from cocoa powder, liquor,
cake and butter to liquid and solid
chocolates in various shapes, sizes
and packaging options.
Flexibility and Excellence in
Customer Service
Fulfilling customer orders as
our top priority; seeking to
establish long-term meaningful
relationships.
Product Quality and Safety
Ensuring excellent throughput
at our production facilities
and compliance with all safety
standards.
Technical Support and
Innovation
Crafting tailor-made recipes and
developing new products with our
experienced R&D team.
Competitive Prices
Offering fair market prices by
sourcing competitively as one of
the biggest players in the market.
Ethical Operation
Upholding strict operational
standards and treating people with
dignity and respect. Our suppliers
are expected and required to have
the strictest environmental and
social awareness.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
10 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Structure
100%
100% 100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
20%
Guan ChongTrading
Sdn. Bhd. (“GCT”)
GCB America, Inc
(“GCBA”)
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
(“Carlyle”)
GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCBF”)
Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
(“Cocoarich”)
GCB Oversea Holdings
Corporation (“GCBOHC”)
GCB Cocoa Malaysia
Sdn. Bhd. (“GCBCM”)
SMC Food21 (Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd. (“SMC”)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
GCB Cocoa Côte
d’Ivoire (“GCBCCI”)
Schokinag Holding
GmbH (“SCHOKINAG”)
GCB Cocoa UK Limited
(“GCBCUK”)
GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.
(“GCBCE”)
GCB Cocoa Trading Côte
d’Ivoire (“GCBCTI”)
100%
Guan Chong Cocoa
Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCCM”)
100%
GCB Cacao GmbH
(“GCB Cacao”)
100% 100%
GCB Cocoa Singapore
Pte Ltd (“GCBCS”)
PT GCB Cocoa
Indonesia (“GCBCI”)
100%
100%
Schokinag-Schokolade-
Industrie GmbH (“SSIG”)
Schokinag Verwaltungs
GmbH (“SVG”)
100%
PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia (“ACI”)
10%
90%
(90% held by
GCB Cocoa
Singapore Pte Ltd)
(10% held by
Cocoarich
Sdn. Bhd.)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 11
Corporate Principal Activities, Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and Market Positioning
Corporate Principal Activities
Our business is principally involved in the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients including cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come in
dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid form.
Market Environment
FY2021 presented a challenging year for the Group,
as disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and
geopolitical tensions have led to uncertainty, global
inflation and supply chain disruptions.
Even so, market demand during FY2021 was better than
FY2020 as economies gradually recovered from the impact
of COVID-19. Alongside the rapid rollout of COVID-19
vaccines in most countries and travel restrictions that are
gradually being lifted, there has been a surge in demand
for chocolate in the market in the United States1, and the
industry is adopting a cautiously optimistic outlook over
the medium-to-long-term.
Nevertheless, our expansion plans represent both a risk and
an opportunity. While we stand to benefit from reduced
supply chain risks, differences in market conditions, social
and cultural practices, and business processes will pose
challenges that will require coordinated and collective
effort to overcome.
Competitive Landscape
Even with the recent expansion activities, as the world’s
fourth largest cocoa grinding company, we continue to
face stiff competition from major international companies
that boast wider market reach, stronger influence
and greater financial resources. Furthermore, these
international companies usually operate end-to-end,
vertically integrated supply chains, thereby reducing their
exposure to risks derived from logistical challenges and
weakened market demand.
In addressing this issue, our new cocoa processing facility in
Ivory Coast, expected to commence production activities
in mid-2022, will have a transformative effect. It will enable
us to source cocoa beans directly from origin, which will
not only provide us a shorter bean-to-ingredients cycle
compared to our other facilities, but also give us better
control over the scheduling and supply reliability of quality
beans. This will mitigate supply chain risks and empower
greater control over the scheduling of our production and
shipping activities.
Ultimately, by enabling the direct supply of cocoa
ingredients to our operations in Germany and the United
Kingdom, our facility in Ivory Coast will drive increased cost
efficiencies, giving us increased leeway to capture market
share and achieve long-term growth in these important
markets and beyond.
Market Positioning
We are optimistic that the acquisitions and expansion we
have made in the past few years stand us in good stead to
strengthen our presence as a key multinational player in
the global chocolate supply chain.
Firstly, through our new cocoa processing facility in Ivory
Coast, we will benefit from direct access to raw materials in
the world’s largest cocoa bean producing country. This will
unlock operational and cost efficiencies across the Group,
enhancing our market position and competitiveness in the
global cocoa market.
Secondly, our acquisition of SCHOKINAG in Germany
has improved our production capabilities and widened
our product portfolio, enabling us to compete strongly in
the German and broader European consumer chocolate
markets. To capitalise on growth opportunities in this
region of the world, we plan to allocate RM50 million in
2022 towards upgrading SCHOKINAG’s existing chocolate
production lines and setting up additional machineries,
thereby expanding its annual production capacity from
90,000 MT to 100,000MT. Concurrently, we have appointed
a contractor to set up a new chocolate producing facility
in the United Kingdom, set to be completed in Q4 2022,
enabling us to expand our client base in the United
Kingdom and other international markets.
As the global economy enters the post-pandemic era,
these strategic moves that we proactively made mean we
are both more integrated and more diversified than ever
before. This not only gives us access to more avenues for
growth but also mitigates against supply chain and demand
risks that persist.
1 Confectionary News (2022), US Demand For Chocolate Drives
Up Cocoa Prices
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
12 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Product Introduction
We offer a wide range of cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolates that cater to a multitude of applications, both within
the food production industry and across other popular consumer categories.
Cocoa Mass
We produce raw cocoa paste, also called cocoa liquor, by roasting and grinding
cocoa nibs from solid to fluid mass. Cocoa mass is complementary to the
production of all chocolates, and especially dark chocolate, due to its smooth
texture. It can also be further used to create cocoa cake and cocoa butter for
further processing or for milk and white chocolate applications.
Cocoa Butter
An intermediary product used in the production of chocolates, personal care
products, ointments and pharmaceutical products, cocoa butter is extracted from
the pressing of cocoa mass.
Cocoa Cake
Derived from the cocoa mass pressing process, cocoa cake is the solid portion
of cocoa nibs which are then broken into smaller pieces. It is mainly used in the
industrial grinding process that creates cocoa powder.
Cocoa Powder
Produced by grinding cocoa cake, cocoa powder is used to manufacture
chocolate confectioneries and chocolate paste, which is then used to produce
desserts.
Chocolate Beverages
Our chocolate beverages are produced by blending different cocoa materials
with sugar, milk powder and other ingredients, and can be mixed with water for
consumption.
Chocolate Chips & Chunks
Chocolate chips and chunks are used in the baking of cakes and biscuits and
for decoration purposes. Produced by our German subsidiary SCHOKINAG, our
chips are designed to be easy to dose, quick to melt and to offer exact tempering,
making the process of melting chocolate simpler.
Liquid Chocolate
Produced by processing cocoa butter and cocoa mass, our liquid chocolate is rich
in flavonoids and antioxidants. By continually refining the complex production
processes involved, we have been able to achieve consistently high quality liquid
chocolate.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 13
Where We Operate
Our production facilities span three continents, offering an annual bean grinding capacity of 277,000MT, annual value-
added capacity of 99,000MT and annual industrial chocolate capacity of 90,000MT across our varied cocoa processing
and chocolate production activities.
With new facilities set to launch in Ivory Coast and the United Kingdom during 2022, and additional machineries set to be
installed at our SCHOKINAG plant in Germany, our annual bean grinding capacity is set to rise by a further 60,000MT and
our annual industrial chocolate capacity by a further 26,000MT.
Facility Location
Annual
Bean Grinding
Capacity
(MT)
Annual
Value-Added
Capacity
(MT)
Annual
Industrial
Chocolate
Capacity
(MT)
Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer
Sdn. Bhd.
Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia
87,000
GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia
63,000
PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia Batam,
Indonesia
120,000
SCHOKINAG Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH
Mannheim,
Germany
7,000
(Up to cocoa
mass)
90,000
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC Delaware,
United States
9,000
(Cocoa cake
grinding)
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC Swedesboro,
United States
30,000
(Cocoa mass
melting)
60,000
(Cocoa butter
melting)
TOTAL 277,000 99,000 90,000
Under Construction/Expansion
GCB Cocoa Côte d’Ivoire San Pedro,
Ivory Coast
60,000
GCB Cocoa UK Limited Suffolk,
United Kingdom
16,000
SCHOKINAG Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH
Mannheim,
Germany
10,000
TOTAL 60,000 26,000
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
14 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Valued
Shareholders,
I am pleased to report that
despite facing numerous
challenges during the year,
Guan Chong Berhad (“GCB”
or “the Group”) recorded
an overall commendable
performance for the
financial year ended 31
December 2021 (“FY2021”).
Numerous major events have
impacted the cocoa grinding industry
since our inception in the 1980s.
However, just as we have surmounted
our previous challenges to rise to the
ranks of becoming a leading global
cocoa grinder, we have similarly
navigated with purpose to maintain
a strong performance in the face of
geopolitical tensions, global inflation
and supply chain disruptions over the
past year.
We have also seized opportunities
to strengthen our position as a
prominent global player in the
cocoa supply chain, with many of
our ongoing initiatives now reaching
fruition. Phase 1 of our factory in Ivory
Coast is approaching completion,
the planned construction of our new
chocolate producing facility in the
United Kingdom is set to conclude
in FY2022, and we have successfully
enhanced the profitability, operational
efficiency and improved utilisation of
capacity of our German subsidiary
SCHOKINAG.
I am humbled to see all business
entities and corporate teams pulling
together with determination and
hard work to overcome the many
unprecedented obstacles we faced
during FY2021. With their concerted
efforts, I am proud to report that
we remain firmly on course towards
achieving our vision of becoming “the
world’s most preferred and leading
cocoa partner”.
In our efforts to continually enhance
the value we provide in our reporting
to stakeholders, we are also thrilled to
present you with our first Integrated
Annual Report, which is written in
accordance with the International
<IR> Framework stipulated by the
Value Reporting Foundation ("VRF"),
previously known as the International
Integrated Reporting Council ("IIRC")
and the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board ("SASB").
This upgraded framework has
enabled us to integrate and align our
business objectives with our material
matters, risks and risks mitigation
actions to provide you with a better
understanding of our approach
towards value creation, innovation
and expansion activities.
In this Integrated Annual Report
FY2021, we look forward to
presenting you with a complete
account of our financial performance
and operational activities for the year,
as well as an overview of the current
market landscape, our business
growth strategies and our prospects
for the future.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 15
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
Successfully Navigating
Another Year of Uncertainty
The Group faced another challenging
year in FY2021, as the protracted
COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical
tensions contributed to global
inflation and supply chain disruptions.
While our logistical efficiencies were
already being impacted by multiple
lockdowns and stringent safety
protocols, we also had to contend
with sharp freight increases and
supply chain bottlenecks within the
shipping industry that was suffering
from a mismatch in demand and
capacity.
Againstthisbackdrop,wenevertheless
continued to cement our position as
the fourth largest cocoa grinder in the
world, and maintained the grinding
activities of our facilities at optimal
utilisation rates to successfully meet
the needs of our clientele. We still
saw our production tonnage of cocoa
ingredients (cocoa butter and cocoa
solids) for FY2021 being sufficiently
covered by committed sales.
However, due to a fall in the price of
cocoa butter, our Group-wide profit
decreased.
During FY2021, we increased our
grinding capacity by 20,000MT to end
the year with a total cocoa grinding
capacity of 277,000MT and industrial
chocolate capacity of 90,000MT
across our global operations.
We have also made great
strides towards enhancing our
competitiveness within the European
markets, as recent strategic expansion
plans in Ivory Coast, Germany and the
United Kingdom will soon significantly
increase our total capacity and unlock
various crucial operational and cost
efficiencies across the Group.
Read more: Market Overview and
Outlook, page 26
Our Financial Performance
In a year marked by continued
uncertainty and upheaval due to the
COVID-19 pandemic and its varied
effects, we nevertheless recorded
a resilient financial performance,
expanding our revenue in line with
our ongoing global expansion plans,
which remain unaffected by the
overall slowdown that the global
economy experienced.
While our profit before tax and net
profit declined during the year in
review, green shoots can clearly
be seen in our quarterly financial
performance, where Q3 of 2021 saw
a rise in quarter-on-quarter revenue
of 18.6% and Q4 a rise in net profit of
7.1% compared to the same quarter
the year before. These encouraging
results indicate that we are better
positioned to rebound in FY2022.
Our total assets and total liabilities
increased by 23.7% and 31.5%
respectively in FY2021 as compared to
the year before. The increase in total
assets is mainly due to investment
during the year in property, plants
and equipment and higher inventory
level whereas the increase in total
liabilities is mainly due to increased
borrowings to finance higher volume
of raw materials purchased during
the year. Nevertheless, our retained
profits also rose 14.1%, bolstered by
our continued profitability.
Read more: Financial Performance
Review, page 40
Expanding Our Capacity,
Capabilities and
Competencies
In FY2021, we made significant strides
forward in our undertaking of various
business growth strategies across our
global operations.
In Malaysia, we were successful in
increasing our grinding capacity at
our Pasir Gudang plants by 20,000MT
to reach a total of 150,000MT. This
was achieved through an expansion
exercise carried out on our existing
facilities.
In Ivory Coast, we will commence
Phase 1 operations with an initial
annual grinding capacity of
60,000MT in mid-2022. The cocoa
processing facility will boost our
Group-wide annual grinding capacity
to 337,000MT upon completion,
empowering us to capture a greater
share of the global cocoa market.
During FY2021, we
increased our grinding
capacity by 20,000MT to
end the year with a total
cocoa grinding capacity of
277,000MT and industrial
chocolate capacity of
90,000MT across our
global operations.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
16 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
In the United Kingdom, we have
appointed a contractor for the
construction of a chocolate
producing facility on a 17.8-acre
site in Glemsford, United Kingdom,
which will begin producing dark, milk
and white chocolate for the United
Kingdom and international markets in
the fourth quarter of 2022.
Meanwhile in Germany, our
optimization and enhancement
exercise for SCHOKINAG proved
to be a success, as we more than
doubled our earnings in our second
year of take over. SCHOKINAG
posted RM32.8 million in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation expenses (“EBITDA”) for
FY2021 compared to RM14.8 million
in EBITDA recorded in the year before.
The main drivers of this improvement
were effective fulfilment of customers’
orders, an increase in utilisation rates
and enhanced operational efficiency.
We have also enhanced our
overarching commitment towards
maintaining top international
standards across our facilities. Most
of our cocoa grinding facilities
have undergone comprehensive
international certification processes
and have been certified with Hazard
Analysis Critical Control Points
(“HACCP”) and Food Safety Scheme
Certification 22000 (“FSSC 22000”),
in addition to having passed the
Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit.
These certifications underscore our
emphasis on maintaining stringent
quality standards and meeting ethical
standards of labour.
Read more: Operational Performance
Review, page 45
Strategic Priorities to Drive
Long Term Success
As part of our business development
roadmap, we continue to place
emphasis on advancing the three
key strategic priorities of Growth/
Expansion, Sustainability and
Innovation to drive our success in the
medium-to-long-term.
As part of our expansion activities,
we have continued diversifying our
operations through the cocoa supply
and value chain, with cocoa cake
grinding, cocoa mass and cocoa
butter melting, as well as cocoa butter
deodorising now being supported by
our facilities at Delaware and New
Jersey in the United States.
Meanwhile, our plants in the Ivory
Coast and the United Kingdom will
enable us to unlock the efficiencies
of bringing our products closer to
customers, while our acquisition
of SCHOKINAG in Germany has
propelled us another crucial step
forward towards expanding our
market presence in Europe.
In terms of sustainability
developments, 2021 was a notable
year for us as it saw the Group’s
expansion of Corporate Social
Responsibility (“CSR”) activities, the
launch of farmer programmes in Ivory
Coast and greater transparency in
sustainability reporting. The Group has
also implemented greater use of solar
energy and biomass machines across
all entities to reduce our reliance on
non-renewable energy sources. We
have thus far installed 2800 solar
panels capable of generating 1,120
kilowatts peak (kWp) of energy to
meet the needs of our factories.
We have also adopted the use of
biomass boilers that can convert
our internally generated cocoa
shells to steam energy for heating
and the running of our machineries.
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
We have thus far installed
2800 solar panels
capable of generating
1,120 kilowatts peak (kWp)
of energy to meet the
needs of our factories.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 17
Our recycled cocoa shells currently
account for up to 48% of the fuel we
use for steam generation at our cocoa
grinding facilities at Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia, significantly reducing our
consumption of natural gas.
We believe that constant innovation
is the key to maintaining market
superiority and place great
importance on ensuring our facilities
consistently produce quality
products. We currently operate a
research and development team
that works closely with customers to
develop new recipes and innovative
products, while we have also
appointed a capable process team
that constantly explores opportunities
to adopt advanced technology in our
production processes.
Our acquisition and expansion
activities have also served to enhance
our innovative capabilities. Our
recent acquisition of SCHOKINAG,
which is one of the leading chocolate
manufacturers in Europe, not only
provided us with entry into the
European industrial chocolate
market, but also gave us access to
their innovative technologies and
processes.
Read More: Growth Strategies, page
38
Supporting the Wider
Community
We acknowledge that contributing
positively to the communities in
which we operate represents an
important part of our duty as a socially
responsible corporation, and further
enables us to bolster our relationships
with key stakeholders.
This has led to the conception of our
‘Caring Beyond Cocoa’ programme,
through which we undertake a wide
variety of community driven initiatives
each year within the scope of youth
empowerment, environmental
protection, community support and
charitable donations.
Some of the activities undertaken
during FY2021 include donating
RM73,000 to Muar Chong Associated
Chinese Schools, organising beach
clean-up activities at Sembawang Park
in collaboration with the Singapore
National Environment Agency and
funding renovation works at the
Children of Guru Shree Raghavendra
Charity Home at an expenditure of
RM7,200.
We also stepped up to provide support
to both our internal and external
communities that were impacted
by the COVID-19 pandemic. For the
wider community, we took part in the
COVID-19 Food Assistance Program
initiated by the Rimbun Foundation, in
which we donated 750 packs of 3-in-1
Chocolate Drink (540g) to 15 schools
around the Klang Valley. Internally, we
ensured that our employees were well
taken care of during the pandemic
through the provision of additional
benefits, special leaves granted for
vaccination appointments or to care
for loved ones, and the flexibility of
working remotely when required.
Read more: Sustainability Statement,
page 49
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
18 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Understanding and
Mitigating Potential Risks
To ensure the continuous sustainability
and profitability of our business, we
constantly identify key external factors
that may influence our ongoing
operations and craft appropriate
mitigation strategies to minimise their
potential impact.
Despite being the fourth largest
cocoa grinder in the world, we
face competitive risks from major
international companies that have
a wider market reach, stronger
influence, and greater financial
resources. To ensure we stand out in
the market, we continuously improve
the quality of our products, effectively
manage our operating costs to
maintain our competitiveness and
undertake global expansion activities
that bring us closer to the markets
we wish to penetrate and provide us
greater stability and efficiency within
our supply chain.
The risk of undersupply of raw
materials is a threat to any business.
However, we believe that our new
cocoa grinding facility in Ivory Coast,
which will provide us with direct
access to cocoa in the world’s largest
cocoa producing country, will prove
a game changer in improving the
supply availability for the Group and
supporting increasing customer
orders from mid-2022 onwards.
Our global expansion activities across
Germany, the United Kingdom and
Ivory Coast have also raised our
cognisance towards the potential
geographical risks that may arise
when entering new markets, such
as differences in market conditions,
social and cultural practices, as well
as business processes. One of the
strategies we have employed to
address this is to nurture workforces
with the right balance of local hires
and experienced personnel from
Malaysia and Indonesia to lead the set
up. We will leverage on the wealth of
experience we gained from our past
expansions into Indonesia and the
United States to guide our practices
and ensure a smooth integration of
operations.
Most of our trades are transacted in
United States Dollar (“USD”) and Great
BritainPound(“GBP”)butourreporting
currency is in Malaysian Ringgit (“RM”).
Hence, we are subjected to potential
currency fluctuations in the market.
To alleviate this risk, we continue to
practice natural hedging in which
we match the currency used for the
purchase of our raw materials to the
currency of our sales.
In addition to the above, we have
been proactively managing the
impact of cocoa bean price volatility
risks by entering into forward sales
contracts of cocoa ingredients.
This was especially pertinent in the
early months of 2021 when the
implementation of the Living Income
Differential (“LID”) levied in October
2020 caused pricing uncertainties
within the market.
Read more: Key Risks and Risk
Mitigation Actions, page 34
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 19
Outlook
While countries around the world
have loosened pandemic restrictions
and re-opened borders, there remain
market uncertainties fuelled by the
potential reemergence of stronger
variants. At the same time, the
ongoing conflict between Russia and
Ukraine has the potential to drastically
influence oil prices and exert upward
pressure on shipping rates.
Nevertheless, 2022 is generally
forecasted to be a year of recovery
as governments worldwide loosen
COVID-19 restrictions and move to
fully reopen borders and economies.
The International Monetary Fund has
forecasted global Gross Domestic
Product (“GDP”) growth of 4.4% in
2022, and we are further optimistic
that the recommencement of travel
activities will also serve to boost
demand in the cocoa sector next year.
Our recent expansion into Europe -
known for its high levels of chocolate
consumption - has placed us in a
prime position to capitalise on the
strong demand. At the same time, the
commencement of cocoa grinding
operations at our facility in Ivory
Coast will also see us begin to reap
the fruits of our ‘close to source’ and
‘close to market’ expansion policies.
Our newfound ability to source
cocoa beans directly will provide us
with a shorter bean-to-ingredient
cycle compared to our other facilities,
mitigate future supply chain risks and
provide us greater control over our
production and logistic operations.
To boost efforts in widening our
European footprint, we plan to
allocate RM50 million in capital
expenditure to upgrade SCHOKINAG’s
existing chocolate production lines
and set up additional machineries
to increase production capacity
at the SCHOKINAG plant during
2022. This will be complemented
by the completion of our chocolate
producing facility in the United
Kingdom, which will commence
production of milk, dark and white
chocolate for the United Kingdom
and other international markets in the
fourth quarter of 2022.
With these expansion plans coinciding
fortuitously with the expected uptick
in global economic growth during
FY2022, we remain optimistic in
significantly furthering the GCB brand
as a key multinational player in the
global cocoa and chocolate supply
chain in the coming year.
Read More: Market Overview and
Outlook, page 26
Acknowledgements
I would like to hereby extend my
heartfelt appreciation to all our
customers, suppliers, employees
and business partners, as well as our
other valued stakeholders, for their
unending trust and commitment
towards supporting the Group as
we navigated through the various
challenges that came to the fore in
the past year.
I would also like to thank the Board
of Directors for their consistently
dependable guidance, and express my
sincere appreciation and admiration
for our management team and
employees, whose dedication and
hard work form the very foundation
of all of GCB’s successes.
Inspired by the continuous support
of all parties, we hope to incessantly
improve on our efforts to enhance the
stability, profitability and sustainability
of our operations, and achieve
progressively stronger performances
for many years to come.
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
20 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Directors’ Profile
TAN AH LAI
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Ah Lai was appointed as the Independent Non-
Executive Director of GCB on 26 October 2007 and was
re-designated as Independent Non-Executive Chairman on
15 April 2021. He is a fellow member of the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants (“ACCA”) and a Chartered
Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
He started his career in 1990 as an Audit Assistant in
a public accounting firm. In 2011, he incorporated his
consulting firm which provides financial and management
consultation, tax and accounting related services. He has
extensive experience in corporate finance, management
and tax related works. Currently, he is the Independent
Non-Executive Director of Crescendo Corporation Berhad.
He was re-designated as a Member of the Audit Committee
on 15 April 2021 and is a Member of the Risk Management
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination
Committee of the Company. He has no family relationship
with any director and/or major shareholder of the
Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with
the Company. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past 5 years.
He has attended all the five board meetings held in the
financial year ended 31 December 2021.
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
53
Gender
Male
Board Composition
Committee membership key
Nomination
Committee
Age Group
Gender of Directors
Female (33%)
Male (67%)
56-60 (33%)
>60 (17%)
50-55 (50%)
Remuneration
Committee
Risk
Management
Committee
Audit
Committee
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 21
TAY HOE LIAN
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
57
Gender
Male
TAY HOW SIK @
TAY HOW SICK
Executive Director and
Chief Operating Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
62
Gender
Male
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
Tay Hoe Lian was appointed as the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of GCB on 8 January 2005.
He graduated with a degree in Bachelor of Business Administration from the
College of Business Administration at the University of Toledo in the United States
in 1993. Upon his graduation, he was appointed as the Manager of Transport
Division at JB Cocoa Group Sdn Bhd and oversaw the division’s operations.
In 1997, he joined GCCM as the Marketing Manager and has successfully
marketed cocoa powder to the European, Middle Eastern and South American
markets. In 1999, he was elected as a Director of GCCM, and was later promoted
to the position of General Manager in 2002 and Managing Director in 2003. With
his contribution, GCCM has successfully expanded its production capacity to
become one of the leading players in the global cocoa bean processing industry
in terms of processing capacity and market share.
He was elected as a member of Malaysian Cocoa Board by the Ministry of
Plantation Industries and Commodities and he held the position from 1 February
2013 to 31 January 2015.
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay How
Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director and shareholder of the Company.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been
convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.
He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick was appointed as the Executive Director and Chief
Operating Officer of GCB on 8 January 2005.
As a Director of JB Cocoa Group Sdn Bhd from 1987 to 2003, he was involved
in the initial setting up of the cocoa bean processing plant including building
facilities, setting up the production line and installing machineries. He took on
the role of Director and Factory Manager of GCCM in 1989 and has since been
in charge of the factory operations of GCCM. Over the years, he has gained
extensive knowledge and experience in the production of cocoa-derived food
ingredients as well as maintenance and modification of machines to enhance
production efficiency and improve product quality.
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay Hoe
Lian, the Managing Director and shareholder of the Company. He does not have
any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years.
He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
22 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
HIA CHENG
Executive Director and
Chief Financial Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
57
Gender
Male
Hia Cheng was appointed as the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of
GCB on 8 January 2005.
He obtained professional accounting qualification from the ACCA in 1991 and
became a fellow member of the ACCA in 2001. He was with TH Liew & Gan, a
local audit firm from 1986 to 1990, before joining GCCM in 1991 as the Accounts
Supervisor. In 1996, he was promoted to Finance and Trading Manager of GCCM,
leading the department in the sourcing of cocoa beans and the marketing of cocoa
butter, cocoa mass and cocoa cake.
Throughout the years, he has been actively involved in corporate strategy planning
as well as in charge of the financial management and foreign currency management
ofGCB.Inaddition,healsocarriesoutfeasibilitystudiesandinvestmentappraisalsfor
all expansion projects at GCB. He has successfully strengthened GCB’s relationships
with major players in the industry including international trading companies and
cocoa-related organisations.
In February 2018, he was appointed as the General Manager of GCBCCI. He was
actively involved in the due diligence studies and negotiation on the acquisition
of Germany-based industrial chocolate producer SCHOKINAG. In July 2020, he
was appointed as the Director of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate
facility. In April 2021, he was appointed as the Director of GCBCE, the newly set up
subsidiary in Netherlands. In June 2021, he was also appointed as the Director of
GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast. Both of these subsidiaries will
be trading in nature.
He is the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee of the Company. He is
not a director of any other public company. He has no family relationship with any
director and/or major shareholder of the Company nor does he have any conflict
of interest with the Company. He has not been convicted for any offences within
the past 5 years.
He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
22 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 23
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
ANG NYEE NYEE
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
54
Gender
Female
Ang Nyee Nyee was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director of
GCB on 11 November 2020.
She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from University of London,
United Kingdom and is qualified with the Certificate in Legal Practice awarded
by the Legal Profession Qualifying Board, Malaysia. She was called to the Bar and
admitted as an advocate and solicitor in 1993. She joined Nik Saghir & Ismail (the
precursor of Roger Tan & Partners (“RTNP”)) as a legal assistant in year 1994 and
was a partner of Nik Saghir & Ismail between the years 2004 to 2008. Currently,
she is a partner of RTNP.
She was appointed as the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Nomination
Committee and a member of the Risk Management Committee and
Remuneration Committee of the Company on 15 April 2021. She has no family
relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company nor
does she have any conflict of interest with the Company. She has not been
convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.
She has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
NURULHUDA BINTI
ABD KADIR
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
55
Gender
Female
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive
Director of GCB on 11 November 2020.
She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from the International Islamic
University of Malaysia. She was a partner of Nik Saghir & Ismail (the precursor
of Roger Tan & Partners (“RTNP”)) between the years 2004 to 2009 and was
a senior partner of RTNP between the years 2010 to 2016. Currently, she is a
partner of Faizah Aishah Rahman & Associates.
She was appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
a member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee of the Company
on 15 April 2021. She has no family relationship with any director and/or major
shareholder of the Company nor does she have any conflict of interest with the
Company. She has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.
She has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
24 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Profile of Key Senior Management
Malaysian 56 Male
TAY HOW YEH
Director
Tay How Yeh was appointed as the Director of GCCM in January 2003. He is currently also
Director of GCBCS and GCBCM.
He graduated with a Bachelor of Business Administration from the College of Business
Administration of University of Toledo, United States in 1989. From 1990 to 1995, he served
as Manager of GCT, where he was assigned with the task of sourcing cocoa bean in Tawau,
Sabah. Over the years, he has gained considerable experience in logistic and cocoa beans
quality assessment.
Since joining GCCM in 1995 as a Production Manager, he has been in charge of the production
department and has assisted in production capacity expansion, production planning and
quality control. In 2008, he was appointed as the Production and Operation Manager of
GCBF, responsible for managing production planning, raw material procurement, inventory
control and quality control.
In 2010, he was appointed as the Managing Director of Fuji Global Chocolates (M) Sdn Bhd,
monitoring the overall company performance. From August 2016 to February 2020, he
served as Director of Supply Chain of Fuji Global Chocolates (M) Sdn Bhd.
In June 2021, he was appointed as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary
in Ivory Coast, which will be trading in nature. He was also appointed as the Director of
GCBCCI in August 2021.
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay Hoe Lian, the
Managing Director and shareholder of the Company, and brother of Tay How Sik @ Tay
How Sick, an Executive Director and shareholder of the company. He does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any offences within
the past 5 years.
Malaysian 50 Female
TAY SEE MIN
Commercial Director
Tay See Min was appointed as the Commercial Director of GCBCS on 10 December 2010.
She graduated with a Bachelor in Information System from Monash University, Australia
in 1993. Upon graduation, she worked in the Information Technology (“IT”) profession
and was last associated to American International Assurance (AIA) as an IT Manager. Since
joining GCCM, she has been actively involved in trading of cocoa beans and the sales and
marketing of cocoa products. In 2012, she was appointed to be in charge of the Indonesian
Market and has successfully set up a trading company in Jakarta, namely GCBCI. Since
then, she has been managing the subsidiary and has successfully expanded the customer
base in Indonesia.
In 2014, she has been appointed to be in charge of the Japanese market where she actively
worked on building and strengthening relationships with Japanese trading companies
and multinational companies (“MNC”) customers. She is currently involved in corporate
strategic planning and strategic projects management, focusing primarily on expansion
and investment opportunities.
She was appointed as the General Manager of GCBCCI in January 2019. In July 2020, she
was appointed as the Director of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate facility.
In April 2021, she was appointed as the Director of GCBCE, the newly set up subsidiary in
Netherlands. In June 2021, she was also appointed as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly
set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast. Both of these subsidiaries will be trading in nature.
She is not a director of any other public company. She is the sister of Tay Hoe Lian, the
Managing Director and shareholder of the Company. She does not have any conflict of
interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5
years.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 25
Profile of Key Senior Management (Cont’d)
Malaysian 49 Male
YAU TEE WAN
Senior Operation Manager
Yau Tee Wan was appointed as the Senior Operation Manager of GCCM on 01 January
2012. He graduated with a Bachelor of Physics from University of Malaya, Malaysia in 1997.
Upon graduation, he joined Dunham Bush Sdn Bhd as a Research & Development Engineer,
responsible for research and development of air conditioning equipment. Subsequently, he
worked with Mewaholeo Industries Sdn Bhd as a Senior Production Executive, specialising
in overall production of specialty fats including frying oil, margarine and shortening, before
he left the job for the position of Maintenance Manager in GCCM in 18 March 2002.
He manages the overall plant maintenance, technical parts and machineries procurement,
inventory control and project management for GCCM and was promoted to the position
of Operation Manager in 2005 and Group Operating Manager in 2010, overseeing the
production of GCCM, GCBF and ACI. Besides that, he is also the General Manager of ACI
and successfully achieved maximum efficiency in overall production by maintaining high
production yield and low processing cost. In March 2021, he was appointed as the Director
of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate facility. In June 2021, he was appointed
as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast, which will be trading
in nature. He was also appointed as the Director of GCBCCI in August 2021. Currently, he
is leading the team and overseeing the constructions and development of projects in Ivory
Coast and the United Kingdom.
He is not a director of any other public company. He has no family relationship with any
director of the Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.
German 38 Male
EDGAR
ALEXANDER
BITTONG
President of Carlyle Cocoa
Co., LLC
Edgar Alexander Bittong was appointed as the President of Carlyle in June 2020. He
obtained a Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central
Florida in 2007. He started his career in 2008 with PLOT Enterprise Ghana Limited as Site
Engineer, responsible for oversight of machine installations, civil works and factory building
construction. He was subsequently promoted to Production Manager in 2009 and he
managed the factory operations to ensure steady throughput, as well as oversaw plant
improvements to enhance efficiency.
He joined Euromar Commodities GmbH as Process Engineer in 2011, moving on to the
role of Project Engineer in the subsequent year. Over the years, he has gained extensive
knowledge and experience in designing building layouts, project management and
planning, enabling him to ensure continuous production efficiency improvements. He then
worked for Cocoa Services LLC as Production Manager in 2013 before being promoted to
Plant Manager in 2016.
He joined Carlyle in March 2018 as Vice President following the asset acquisition of Cocoa
Services LLC by Carlyle. He has been working on growth management, staff development,
and sales improvement of the Company’s New Jersey and Swedesboro factories.
He is not a director of any other public company. He has no family relationship with any
director of the Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
26 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Market Overview & Outlook
We are operating within an undeniably turbulent
macroeconomic environment, where existing imbalances
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic have been exacerbated
by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, creating a knock-
on effect on consumer demand, business confidence and
the global supply chain.
In a useful barometer of the global economy, the United
States inflation rose to 8.5% in March 2022, the highest
since December 1981, while its Consumer Price Index  
(“CPI”) excluding volatile energy and food categories shot
up by 6.5%, the biggest CPI increase in 40 years1. This
phenomenon is largely due to continuing supply chain
bottlenecks, a lingering effect of the movement restriction
orders of the pandemic and its resultant labour shortages2.
Even now, as economies re-open and restrictions are
lifted, a lack of containers has led to an even greater
mismatch between shipping demand and supply, causing
freight costs to rise even further. In Malaysia, for instance,
the Malaysian National Shippers’ Council (MNSC) reported
that sea freight rates have increased by up to 800% in some
routes when compared to pre-pandemic levels3.
Despite the sluggish global economy and logistical
challenges detailed above, customers’ demand for cocoa-
derived ingredients remained strong in 2021 and as a result
we have achieved a good increase in production capacity
and turnover as compared to 2020. However, due to
the fall in cocoa butter prices, we have recorded a lower
profitability in 2021.
Nevertheless, if we look beyond short-term shocks,
2022 has shown signs of being an international year of
recovery, spurred by loosening pandemic restrictions and
newly reopened borders. Accordingly, the International
Monetary Fund has forecasted a global growth rate of 4.4%
for the year4. With chocolate consumption already on an
upward trend in the market in the United States5, and the
resumption of global travel that is likely to drive increased
chocolate consumption, we are adopting a cautiously
optimistic outlook for 2022 due to the geopolitical tensions
and worldwide inflation mentioned above.
Our optimism is bolstered by our past progressive
expansion as we are now the world’s fourth largest cocoa
grinding company, with a total of 277,000MT in annual
bean grinding capacity. This provides us both the scale to
mitigate against any supply-side shocks and the financial
clout to overcome dips in global demand that may happen.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 27
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
More importantly, we continued with the rollout of our
growth plans to remain competitive, chief among which is
our new facility in Ivory Coast. This new facility will boost
additional bean grinding capacity to the Group and will
be a game-changer for our operations upon its launch,
enabling us to be both ‘close to source’ - as Ivory Coast
is the world’s largest source of cocoa beans - and ‘close
to market’ - empowering greater penetration of the major
chocolate consuming markets of Europe.
Crucially, the new facility will shorten the bean-to-
ingredients cycle compared to other facilities. By enabling
us to directly source cocoa beans from Ivory Coast and
deliver processed cocoa ingredients to our Europe-based
operations, the impact of potential supply-side shocks will
be greatly reduced.
Zeroing in further on Europe as a hub for growth in the mid-
to-long term, we will continue to expand our presence in
both Germany and the United Kingdom, while constantly
monitoring our investment to adapt to the market trends .
To be specific, with the planned RM50 million to be invested
on the upgrade of SCHOKINAG’s existing chocolate
production lines, its annual industrial chocolate production
capacity will increase by 10,000MT. Meanwhile, with the
commissioning of our new chocolate production plant
in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2022, set
to start with dark, milk and white chocolate, an additional
16,000MT annual industrial chocolate production capacity
will be added. The new facility will supply to clients in
the United Kingdom and other international markets,
introducing our products to a wider client base than ever
before.
Our global expansion strategy, which was planned in the
years prior to the pandemic and is coming to fruition,
set the stage for a resurgent performance as the world
enters the ‘new normal’, securing our place as a key multi-
national player in the global chocolate supply chain. These
expansion plans are targeted to be completed by the end
of 2022, with the benefits expected to come to realisation
starting from 2023.
1 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2022)
2 IMF Blog (2022), How Soaring Shipping Costs Raise Prices Around
The World
3 The Malaysian Reserve (2022), Sea Freights Rise 800% On Reduced
Capacity
4 IMF (2022), Rising Caseloads, A Disrupted Recovery, And Higher
Inflation
5 Confectionary News (2022), US Demand For Chocolate Drives Up
Cocoa Prices
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
28 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Financial Capital
• Our strong and stable financial position
• Share capital
• Shareholders’ equity
• Borrowings
Procurement
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure
that our cocoa beans meet global quality,
environmental and social standards in addition to
our stringent internal standards.
Vision
To be the world’s most preferred and
leading cocoa partner.
Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to
deliver quality cocoa and chocolates
while offering utmost flexibility and
attention. Through forming strong
alliances with local partners, we are
dedicated to serving our customers
worldwide and growing together with
them in long-term partnerships.
Values
• Grit
• Ambition
• Sincerity
Our Promises
• Full Product Range
• Product Quality and Safety
• Competitive Prices
• Flexibility and Excellence in Customer
Service
• Technical Support and Innovation
• Ethical Operation
Read More: Our Vision, Mission, Values &
Promises, page 9
Our Stakeholders
• Customers
• Shareholders/Investors
• Suppliers/Contractors
• Employees
• Governments/Regulators
ReadMore:KeyStakeholderEngagement,
page 30
Material Matters
• Product footprint, pricing and quality
• Sustainable operational performance
and expansion
• Responsible and ethical suppliers
• Talent attraction, development and
retention
• Governance and compliance
Read More: Material Matters, page 32
Risks
• Competitive risk
• Expansion and liquidity risk
• Cocoa bean supply risk
• Human workforce risk
• Compliance risk
Read More: Key Risks and Risk Mitigation
Actions, page 34
Strategic Priorities
• Growth/Expansion
• Sustainability
• Innovation
Read More: Growth Strategies, page 38
Manufactured Capital
Our existing facilities:
• Pasir Gudang, Malaysia (2)
• Batam, Indonesia (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
• Delaware, United States (1)
• Swedesboro, United States (1)
Our facilities under construction/expansion:
• San Pedro, Ivory Coast (1)
• Suffolk, United Kingdom (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
Production
We strive to maintain eco-efficient production
processes that provide high quality cocoa
products and maximum benefit to our customers
while minimising environmental impact.
Intellectual Capital
• Our innovative processes and technologies
• Our brand reputation as one of the largest cocoa
grinders in the world
• Our energy management and data collection
systems
Quality Assurance (of products and processes)
We have implemented a standardised safety
production process and system, in accordance
with international food and safety related
standards.
Human Capital
• Our strong and diverse Board of Directors,
supported by our corporate governance structure
• Our experienced and diverse pool of talent which
includes top management and general staff (1,387
employees)
Sales & Marketing
Reflecting our responsibility to our consumers
and society as a whole, we produce and sell high
quality cocoa products and consistently seek
feedback from our customers. This enables us
to maintain long-term relationships and create
sustainable value for our customers and our
business.
Social & Relationship Capital
• The strong and effective relationships we maintain
with key stakeholders, including our customers,
shareholders/investors, suppliers/contractors,
employees and governments/regulators
Distribution
We utilise a fully integrated and extensive
distribution system and network to ensure that
our products are efficiently distributed to our
customers. In doing so, we strive to minimise
negative environmental and social impacts by
managing our energy use and taking steps to
safeguard the safety of our personnel and local
communities.
Natural Capital
• The cocoa beans we use, which are supplied from
Southeast Asia, Africa and South America
• The energy we consume in our operations,
including electricity, gas and steam
• The solar energy we produce and consume from
the 2,800 solar panels we have installed Group-
wide
• The steam we generate for heating and the running
of production machines using residual cocoa shells
• The water we consume in our production activities
Research & Development
We maximise the output and quality of our
products through research and development
in order to consistently deliver innovative
and environmentally friendly products to our
customers.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Value Creation Business Model
Using inputs across our six capitals as a basis, we carry out well-established business activities that generate favourable
outputs, empowering our continued growth and expansion within the global cocoa-derived ingredient and chocolate
industry. Our value creation business model below connects this further to the meaningful and tangible outcomes that our
business activities deliver for our stakeholders.
INPUTS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 29
• Cash and bank balance: RM52.9million
• Revenue: RM3.9billion
• Net profit: RM154.8million
• Share capital: RM297.1million
• Shareholders’ equity: RM1.3billion
• Earnings per share: 14.86sen
• Net dividends per share: 3.01sen
• Total borrowings: RM1.3billion
• Net gearing ratio: 0.92 times
Customers
• Strong collaborative relationships with our
customers, enabling continuous fulfilment of their
volume and quality requirements
• Continual expansion of our footprint in Asian and
European markets
Shareholders/Investors
• Maintaining a consistently healthy financial
position
• Consistent value creation through sustained
capital appreciation and dividend payouts
Suppliers/Contractors
• Consistent growth in our base of quality suppliers
• Active promotion of social and environmental
responsibilities across our cocoa bean supply
chain
• Ongoing collaboration and communication with
suppliers to ensure the use of high quality raw
materials and the most advanced technology
Employees
• Attractionandretentionofaskilledandcompetent
work force with:
- Regular provision of trainings which enhance
relevant knowledge and skills
- The upholding of the principles of non-
discrimination and equal opportunity, as
enshrined in the Business Ethics Policy and
Code of Conduct.
- The promotion of diversity in the workplace
through our career advancement and hiring
practices
- The establishment of thorough grievance
procedures and a whistleblowing policy
• The adoption of various international product
quality and safety standards, such as FSSC,
IFS, GMP, HACCP, ISO 9001, Halal and Kosher
certifications
• An enhanced career progression and effective
reward system
Governments/Regulators
• Continued contribution to the economies where
we have presence in through sales of goods and
taxes paid
• Continued support of government policies
• Continued involvement in key corporate social
responsibility activities
• Maintenance of a strong corporate governance
framework
Our current capacity:
• Existing facilities:
- Cocoa Grinding: 277,000MT
- Value Added: 99,000MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 90,000MT
• Facilities under construction:
- Cocoa Grinding: 60,000MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 26,000MT
• Increased usage of advanced machinery and technology that reduce our reliance on non-renewable
energy sources
• Increased usage of solar panels and biomass machines for energy generation, resulting in an
improvement to our net energy consumption
• Adoption and implementation of relevant international standards in producing high quality cocoa
related products, including:
- Food Safety Scheme Certification (FSSC)
- International Food Standard (IFS)
- Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)
- Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP)
- ISO 9001: Quality Management System
- UTZ and Rainforest Alliance Standards
- Fairtrade Standards
- Halal and Kosher Certifications
• Monitoring of energy usage by measuring kWh consumed per MT of cocoa beans processed,
thereby reducing our overall energy consumption
• A more diverse Board of Directors, which nevertheless delivers relevant knowledge and experience in
key areas such as risk assessment, strategic planning, succession planning, financial and operational
management and more
• 100% of our employees are trained on the latest occupational health and safety practices
• RM157.3million was distributed in FY2021 for directors’ and employees’ remuneration and benefits
• Provision of additional employee benefits and assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as
flexibility to work from home or remotely, occasional work from home arrangements for parents
with sick children or childcare needs, provision of vaccination leave and more
• The quality cocoa beans we purchase
• The energy we consumed in FY2021:
• Electricity: 358,445 GJ
• Gas: 382,038 GJ
• Steam purchased: 13,277 GJ
• Solar energy: 4,857 GJ
• Steam generated from cocoa shells and saw dust: 98,179 GJ
• Total installed capacity of 1,120 kilowatts peak (“kWp”) at our factory from 2021 onwards (due to
installation of 2,800 solar panels, with each panel capable of generating 400W)
• 48% of the fuel requirement of our steam generation activities at our cocoa grinding facilities at
Pasir Gudang, Malaysia are supported by biomass boilers which use residual cocoa shells from our
production activities
• The volume of treated water discharged: 27,664m3
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
OUTPUTS OUTCOMES
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
30 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Key Stakeholder Engagement
Through concerted and constructive engagements with our stakeholders, we develop a deeper understanding of their needs,
empowering the development and continual improvement of sustainable business strategies that create shared value.
Stakeholder
Group Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address Their Expectations
Customers
We engage with our
customers to understand
their requirements in detail.
This helps us drive high
product quality and delivery
standards, and develop
strategies that help us meet
their expectations.
Ultimately, our efforts
help us build a strong and
diversified customer base,
thereby empowering our
continued growth and
expansion.
• Calls and online meetings
• Email communication
• Annual customer surveys
• Our corporate website
• Trade shows (before the
COVID-19 pandemic)
• Maintaining continuous
communication and driving
compliance with their quality,
shipment, delivery and other
requirements as listed within sales
contracts.
• Ensuring social and legal (SEDEX)
compliance with international
standards, while developing and
publicly committing to a long-term,
Group-wide sustainability plan
• Sharing market and future trends with
our customers through weekly price
updates and regular communication
• Working closely with our customers
to provide flexible solutions - such
as technical support for product
development - which helps expand
our market share
Shareholders/
Investors
We engage with our
shareholders and investors
to understand their specific
expectations. This enables
us to develop strategies
that deliver their expected
growth and capital
appreciation, and better
support our management in
achieving our goals.
• Investor briefings and
other investor relations
engagements
• Our Annual General
Meeting
• Our Integrated Annual
Report
• Our corporate website
• Maintaining continuous
communication between
management and all departments
in order to prioritise key investor
expectations (e.g. expansion plans,
profit growth and stability, dividends).
• Corporate governance practices
that ensure transparency and
accountability, and help to prevent
corporate scandals, fraud and issues
pertaining to corporate liability,
while building proper rules, policies
and practices that create long-term
shareholder value
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 31
Stakeholder
Group Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address Their Expectations
Suppliers/
Contractors
It is vital to ensure the
consistent supply of raw
materials that meet our
quality requirements,
especially when it comes to
cocoa beans, which account
for nearly 95% of our
production inputs. We also
engage with our suppliers
to explore and encourage
the adoption of the latest
innovations in machineries
and packaging materials.
By nurturing healthy
supplier relationships, we
also improve our likelihood
of receiving preferential
treatment in terms of
pricing, special terms, better
services and more.
• Calls and online
conferences
• Email communication
• Supplier evaluations
• Our Supplier Code of
Conduct
• Our corporate website
• Setting clear expectations within
our supplier relationships, defined
through Key Performance Indicators
(“KPIs”), targets and best practices in
relation to product quality, product
delivery and supplier payments
• Maintaining the high ethical
standards in our procurement
processes, especially in relation to
environmental and social issues
• Maintaining regular two-way
communication with our suppliers
on the latest market developments,
future trends and on our strategic
plans, thereby enabling better raw
material and machinery planning
• Maintaining regular communication
between suppliers and our internal
departments (including shipping,
trading, marketing, planning,
production and quality control) to
ensure that the supply of cocoa
beans is consistent and of good
quality
Employees
Engaging our employees
drives benefit on two fronts.
In addition to enabling us
to better understand their
needs and expectations,
we also gain a greater
understanding of the various
skills and aptitudes at our
disposal, enabling us to
better deploy our human
resources for sustainable
growth.
• Monthly Workers’
Committee meetings
• Regular employee
meetings (daily, weekly
and monthly, depending
on job profile)
• Employee appraisal
sessions
• Team building activities
• Regular, role-specific
training modules
• Consistently recognising the hard
work of our employees through a fair
remuneration and reward system
• Providing professional development
and training opportunities to
enhance the skills of our employees
• Embedding our corporate vision,
business direction and growth
plans at all levels, thereby nurturing
a greater sense of belonging and
purpose at work
Governments/
Regulators
Our engagements with
governments and regulators
are crucial to remaining
abreast of changing laws
and regulatory regimes,
thereby minimising the risk
of any disruptions to our
multinational operations.
• Regulator certifications
• Reports produced by
regulators
• Visits by government
officials and/or regulatory
agents
• Company announcements
and statutory reporting
• Providing government officials
and regulatory authorities with the
reports and information they require
in a timely manner
• Facilitating smooth audits and visits
• Deepening our involvement in
government-initiated programmes,
such as those pertaining to
sustainable cocoa
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
32 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Material Matters
Our material matters represent the core topics that are central to creating value in the short, medium and long-term.
Guided by our materiality determination process, we continuously evaluate topics that are relevant to our stakeholders,
our industry and our countries of operation. With the insights gained, we enhance our strategies in turn.
Our Materiality Determination Process
Our Material Matters
Material Matter Description
Product Footprint, Pricing
and Quality
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We ensure the consistent quality of our products, their traceability to the farm level,
and the sustainability of the processes involved in their production
• We also recognise that our brand value (and the value of our products) is strongly
linked to being seen as reasonably priced, and thereby strive to ensure that competitive
price points are maintained
• Above all, we prioritise product safety first and ensure the strictest compliance to food
safety and other relevant regulations
• On top of these three crucial focus areas, within each of which our performance
greatly impact our reputation, we ensure that our Group is constantly growing in terms
of capacity, market presence, product quality and innovation
• This enables us to meet the demands and requirements of our established global
customers while maintaining our product footprint, pricing and quality standards
Sustainable Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• By managing and allocating resources effectively, we are best placed to maximise
shareholder returns
• To this end, we strive to maintain healthy performance in key financial metrics, thereby
encouraging potential investors to place trust in our growth plans
• Equally, we seek to minimise our risk exposure and build resilience against price
fluctuations in the commodity market
• These goals can only be achieved with a strong, competent and ethical management
team possessing experience and strong decision-making skills, thereby boosting the
confidence level of our existing investors and attracting new sources of capital
Identification Evaluation & Prioritisation Determination
Based on internal analysis of
our business and feedback
gathered, we identified topics
that are key to the Group, based
on their impact on our financial
and non-financial performance
and in the context of the Six
Capitals of the <IR> Framework
After evaluating the importance
of the topics in terms of their
known or potential effect on
value creation for our business
and stakeholders, we prioritised
five material matters to focus
on for FY2021
After prioritising the material
matters, we undertook an
intensive exercise to determine
relevant information to disclose
about the scope and boundary
of each material matter for
reporting purposes
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 33
Material Matter Description
Responsible and Ethical
Suppliers
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We strive to ensure that our cocoa bean suppliers only make purchases from farmers
who strictly comply and adhere to regulatory standards in relation to child labor, forced
labor, deforestation and other key social and environmental issues
• Furthermore, we ensure that our suppliers value and commit to our sustainable
practices in the supply of cocoa beans
• In order to reduce our own environmental impact, we have adopted energy efficient
machineries that also meet our output requirements
• We have also established procedures which enhance the ability of our suppliers to fulfil
our quantity and quality specification standards and food safety standards as stipulated
within their contracts
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• First and foremost, we strive to provide our employees with healthy and safe workplaces
while safeguarding the need for work-life balance
• In terms of employee rewards, we continue to adhere to a fair rewards system that
takes into account the different levels and skillsets of employees across our business
footprint
• In line with driving continuous employee improvement, we have also introduced
training initiatives that enhance the skills and knowledge of our workforce, towards
achieving our shared goals as an organisation
• This helps to forge a greater diversity in our workforce, not just in terms of background
but also skills, which improves our ability to solve problems and address issues that our
business encounters
• Reflecting the priority we place on diversity, our management brings a variety of skills,
experiences and backgrounds to the fore, empowering a flexible approach to business
management and driving our rapid expansion
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We comply strictly with the relevant tax and Living Income Differential (“LID”) levies
within our respective import countries
• Various actions and steps have been undertaken to ensure compliance with all legal
requirements and regulations (in areas including environmental, social and governance
(ESG), product quality, food safety, Halal certification, data protection and more)
• Strong corporate governance plays an important role in driving synergy within our
value creation approach, while driving alignment to our corporate values across our
business divisions and subsidiaries
• We also keep a keen eye for any changes in relevant laws and regulations that might
impact our business operations within the respective jurisdictions where we are present
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Legend:
Financial
Capital
Manufactured
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Human
Capital
Social & Relationship
Capital
Natural
Capital
Customers Shareholders/
Investors
Suppliers/
Contractors
Employees Governments/
Regulators
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
34 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Key Risks & RISK MITIGATION ACTIONS
Given the multinational nature of our businesses, comprehensive risk management procedures are critical to our success.
Below, we present the five risks which have been deemed to be most relevant to our business - each categorised by their
area of impact - and the risk mitigation strategies we employ to reduce our exposure.
Our Risk Categories:
Risk Category Description
Strategic Risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group, but have a significant
impact on our strategic decisions or activities
Operational Unfortunate events that have the potential to disrupt our day-to-day operations and
processes
Financial Risks that have a direct financial impact on the Group
Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where the Group is in
operation, that may result in financial penalties, reputational damage or even revocation
of business licenses
Our Risk Matrix:
Risk MATRIX
5
4
3
2
1
0
0 1 2 3 4
Likelihood
Impact
3
2
1
5
4
1. Competitive Risk
2. Expansion and Liquidity Risk
3. Cocoa Bean Supply Risk
4. Human Workforce Risk
5. Compliance Risk
Strategic
Operational
Financial
Compliance
Risk Categories
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 35
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Competitive Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Product Footprint,
Pricing and Quality
Stakeholders
involved:
Operational • We are in constant
competition with cocoa
industry players from around
theworld.Therefore,failingto
adapt to the latest production
technologies may harm our
competitiveness and result in
the loss of valued customers
• However, any adoption of
new technologies must be
thoroughly considered and
deliberated as ill-advised
investments may incur
significant costs without
delivering benefits, therefore
reducing our profitability and
harming our competitiveness
• We must also stay alert
to any potential health
hazards and inadequate
processes across our supply
chain, which may result in
customer complaints, food
safety issues and reputational
damage
• By expanding into the European market, we are
better placed to compete and maintain healthy
product margins. We are doing this by:
- Capitalising on SCHOKINAG’s existing
marketing team and customer base, which
also helps to eliminate language and cultural
barriers
- Redefining and diversifying our customer
segments by selling specific bean blends to
targeted markets based on their preferences
and buying power
- Ensuring that we offer competitive prices to
our customers
• We implement the Food Safety Quality
Management system, based on FSSC 22000,
which effectively mitigates against potential
quality or safety issues in our supply chain
• We employ experienced in-house personnel to
design efficient and cost-saving machineries,
while attending international exhibitions and
engaging machinery suppliers to stay abreast of
the latest technology developments
• We perform due diligence assessments before
purchasing any new machineries and technology
• We assign internal teams to engage with
customers and better understand their product
requirements, empowering innovation that is
geared to their specific needs
Expansion and
Liquidity Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Sustainable
Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Stakeholders
involved:
Financial • In executing our expansion
plans, inadequate
assessments or other due
diligence measurements can
lead to significant financial
costs
• It is also essential that we
match the sales of our
products and purchases of
beans to our production
capacity, while stringently
monitoring our cash flow
in order to avoid cash flow
deficits
• We are also exposed to price
fluctuations due to bean
terminal market movements,
which can lead to negative
impacts on our margin and
profit
• To reduce our exposure to risks from inadequately
planned expansions, we focus our expansion
efforts on our core areas of bean grinding and
industrial chocolate
• Before deciding to expand to a particular country,
we evaluate predefined criteria including political
issues, strategic location, government incentives,
long-term supply, quality issues, environmental
issues and more
• In order to mitigate against cash flow risk, we
constantly monitor marketing and trading
positions,and report findingsin atimely manner to
the management in order to facilitate strategically
sound business decisions
• Working capital forecasts and bean inventory
forecasts are consistently undertaken and
updated to ensure sufficient cash flow
• We constantly monitor and manage our gearing
ratio to ensure that sufficient reserves are available
for expansion projects, while undertaking detailed
project forecasts to ensure sufficient financing is
available for the project at hand
• To mitigate against price fluctuation risks, we
enter into hedging contracts
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
36 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Cocoa Bean
Supply Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Responsible and
Ethical Suppliers
Stakeholders
involved:
Strategic If our suppliers do not adhere
to our Code of Conduct, for
instance by being involved
in illegal activities such as
deforestation or child labor,
this may lead attention from
global unions, market boycotts
of our products and significant
reputational damage
• We perform thorough background checks on all
new suppliers and do not engage suppliers who
lack an established company background or
portfolio
• We require all suppliers to sign and comply with
our Supplier Code of Conduct
• We regularly conduct supplier audits and
request detailed evidence if audit results are not
satisfactory
• We practice procurement procedures that
prioritise sustainability and work with suppliers
on action plans to further improve their sourcing
processes
Human
Workforce Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Stakeholders
involved:
Operational • Improper assessment of
potential candidates can lead
to the hiring of incompetent
employees, incurring
financial and reputational
costs
• Similarly, if we are unable
to retain our most talented
employees, our human
capital and the collective
capabilities of our business
may be compromised
• We must also remain
cognisant of any and all
employee safety concerns
including those derived
from production accidents,
machine failures and other
factors
• In addition, cultural and
language barriers present a
potential stumbling block to
the smooth operation of our
businesses, given our various
foreign subsidiaries
• To mitigate against the risk of hiring underqualified
talent, external recruitment agencies are engaged
regularly to provide consultancy and shortlist
suitably qualified candidates
• To drive human capital growth and employee
retention, we invest in well-established employee
development programmes that provide ample
training opportunities, while practicing internal
promotion and succession planning across the
Group
• We carry out annual performance reviews with
employees to canvass their feedback, identify
strengths and weaknesses in their performance,
and define goals for future career progression
• In line with our goal to nurture safe and healthy
workplaces, we ensure that all employees adhere
to established health and safety guidelines in
our offices, factories and warehouses, providing
training on a regular basis
• To drive consistency in standards and minimise
cultural and language barriers, experienced
management and operation teams are sent
to train employees at our foreign subsidiaries,
equipping them with relevant industry knowledge
• Regular meetings are held between the
management team at our HQ and employees at
foreign subsidiaries in order to drive alignment
with our corporate vision, mission and goals
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 37
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Compliance Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders
involved:
Compliance • Our multinational operations
mean we must navigate
complex regulatory regimes
across tax, cybersecurity,
food safety, manufacturing
processes and more
• Failure to comply with tax
and financial regulations can
lead to significant financial
penalties
• Failure to comply with
cybersecurity rules can lead
to compromised information
as well as significant
reputational damage
• Failure to comply with food
safety and quality regulations
may lead to products being
restricted from sales in
specific jurisdictions, thereby
incurring financial losses
• The breach of laws and
regulations such as the
Personal Data Protection Act
(“PDPA”), Employment Act
and of HALAL certification
standards can have a
similarly damaging financial
and reputational impact
• Finally, we must adopt a
cautious and considered
approach when carrying
out business activities in a
country under sanctions or
one deemed as high-risk
• We attend regular trainings organised by
professional bodies to keep abreast of any
changes in relevant regulations
• We engage in regular discussions with local
authorities in order to understand local
requirements and incentives for any projects that
we have in the pipeline
• To mitigate against food safety and quality risks,
we adhere to a Food Safety Quality Management
system based on FSSC 22000
• We follow detailed internal controls and Standard
Operating Procedures (“SOPs”) to ensure the
timely submission of required documents and
information
• We provide regular updates to marketers on
the list of sanctioned and high-risk countries to
avoid potential complications and scrutiny from
relevant authorities
• We ensure that requirements of the laws and
regulations in our countries of operation are
complied with at all times
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
38 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Growth Strategies
Our rise from a local producer to the fourth largest cocoa grinding company in the world has not quelled our ambition.
As we look to the future and seek to further establish ourselves as an innovative and responsible industry giant, three core
Growth Strategies underpin our efforts. These strategies leverage on the competitive advantages we have developed over
the years, providing meaning and purpose to the specific actions we take across our global business footprint.
Strategic Priorities Competitive Advantages Business Strategies
Timeframe
Short-term (1 year)
Medium-term (2-3 years)
Long-term (4-5 years)
Growth/Expansion • We have an annual cocoa
grinding capacity of 277,000MT
per year and an annual industrial
chocolate capacity of 90,000MT
per year, supported by cocoa
grinding facilities at Pasir Gudang
(Malaysia), Batam (Indonesia) and
an industrial chocolate factory in
Mannheim (Germany)
• Our cocoa cake grinding, cocoa
mass and cocoa butter melting, as
well as cocoa butter deodorising
capabilities are supported by
facilities in Delaware and New
Jersey, United States
• Our acquisition of SCHOKINAG in
Germany is aiding our expansion
in European markets
• We are actively setting up plants
in the United Kingdom and Ivory
Coast, bringing our production
activities closer to European
markets
• Continue to keep a keen
eye on favourable future
expansion opportunities
in order to increase
our market share in the
international cocoa-
derived ingredient and
industrial chocolate
market
• Continue to explore new
markets and develop
mutually beneficial
relationships with
customers across Asia
and Europe
Medium-term
Sustainability • We have reduced our reliance on
non-renewable energy sources
• We have improved our net
energy consumption through the
increased use of solar energy and
biomass machines across all our
business entities
• Furthermore, our biomass boilers  
use internally generated cocoa
shells, delivering up to 48% of
our fuel requirements for steam
generation and reducing our
reliance on emissions-intensive
natural gas
• We will continue to
expand our efforts in
harnessing renewable
energy
• We will continue to
introduce energy
conservation initiatives
while keeping an eye
on new methods and
technologies that can
reduce our overall
power consumption
and improve our energy
efficiency
Medium-to-long-term
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 39
Strategic Priorities Competitive Advantages Business Strategies
Timeframe
Short-term (1 year)
Medium-term (2-3 years)
Long-term (4-5 years)
Innovation • We consistently adhere to stringent
processes which maximise the
quality of our products
• Through the acquisition of
SCHOKINAG, one of the leading
chocolate manufacturers in
Europe, we have gained a strong
foothold in the industrial chocolate
market
• Our in-house R&D team works
closely with customers to develop
new recipes and innovative
products
• Leveraging the strong
capabilities of our process
team, we continuously explore
opportunities to adopt advanced
technology in our production lines
which streamline our production
processes and improve production
efficiency
• We will continue to
explore the use of
technology that can
improve our grinding
capacity and production
efficiency
• Our R&D team will
continue to play an
active role in exploring
and integrating best
manufacturing standards
that maintain and
improve the quality of
our products
Medium-to-long-term
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 39
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
40 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Performance Review
In FY2021, we showed resilience in recording a revenue
of RM3,923.3 million, which was 6.5% higher compared
to RM3,685.0 million in the previous financial year. The
growth in revenue was driven by an overall global increase
in sales tonnage for cocoa products as the world economy
began its collective recovery.
Despite the higher revenue, the Group recorded a lower
profit before tax (“PBT”) of RM196.8 million in FY2021,
compared to RM267.3 million in FY2020. While weakening
cocoa butter prices contributed to our lower PBT in
FY2021, it is important to note that our PBT was elevated in
FY2020 due to a one-off gain on disposal of an associate,
Fuji Global Chocolate (M) Sdn Bhd, during the year.
A similar trend is thus reflected in the Group’s net profit, as
we registered RM154.8 million during FY2021 compared to
RM222.7 million previously.
The Group’s total assets increased by 23.7% during the
year, standing at RM3,495.5 million as at 31 December
2021 compared to RM2,826.4 million the previous year.
This is attributable to an increase in our property, plants
and equipment from expansion plans in Ivory Coast and
the United Kingdom, as well as higher inventory levels.
Inventory levels significantly increased due to our purchase
of more raw materials to meet our sales commitments,
while and at the same time, customers were delaying their
shipments due to container shortages and unfavourable
freight costs.
GCB’s total liabilities as at 31 December 2021 increased to
RM2,153.1 million from RM1,637.5 million the year before.
The upturn was driven by higher loans and borrowings,
which were necessary for the financing of inventory, and
an increase in trade and other payables, which grew in line
with the higher volume of raw materials purchased during
the year.
Our continued profitability has seen us expand our retained
profits from RM876.9 million last year to RM1,000.5 million
in FY2021. We also saw elevated share capital during the
year due to the conversion of warrants into shares. Total
shareholders’ equity increased by 12.9% to RM1,342.3
million as at 31 December 2021 in comparison with
RM1,188.9 million last year.
Our net gearing remains at a manageable level of 0.92
times as at 31 December FY2021.
Dividend
We appreciate the loyalty and support of our shareholders
and are committed to rewarding shareholders for their
continued investment in us. Accordingly, the Group has
declared and proposed three dividend payments in FY2021.
These include a first and second interim dividend of 1.0 sen
per share, and a final dividend of 2.0 sen per share, which
is subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General
Meeting.
This translates to a total dividend payout of RM41.9 million,
which is equivalent to 27.1% of our FY2021 net profit
attributable to shareholders.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 41
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Read more about our financial performance in the Financial Statements section of this report.
Summarised Group Income Statement
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December (RM’000) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Revenue 2,147,914 2,273,424 2,941,630 3,684,985 3,923,297
EBITDA 162,774 263,341 332,820 349,273 292,595
Profit/(Loss) Before Taxation 113,440 208,722 266,861 267,320 196,760
Net Profit/(Loss) Attributable to Equity Holders 91,045 190,115 217,948 222,709 154,838
Summarised Group Statement of Financial Position
As At 31 December (RM’000) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Total Non-Current Assets 427,513 500,067 534,718 964,932 1,072,428
Total Current Assets 1,152,655 1,284,084 1,507,086 * 1,861,440 2,423,044
Total Assets 1,580,168 1,784,151 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472
Share Capital 121,832 121,832 220,407 263,236 297,059
Reserves 362,956 550,656 729,442 926,393 1,046,008
Treasury Shares (5,195) (5,347) (226) (720) (720)
Shareholders’ Equity 479,593 667,141 949,623 1,188,909 1,342,347
Minority Interests - - - - -
479,593 667,141 949,623 1,188,909 1,342,347
Total Non-Current Liabilities 51,217 80,940 93,933 556,263 516,242
Total Current Liabilities 1,049,358 1,036,070 998,248 * 1,081,200 1,636,883
1,580,168 1,784,151 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472
* Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
42 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Summarised Group Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Operating Profit Before Working Capital Changes 154,009 255,790 330,050 338,739 277,912
Net Cash Flows (Used in)/From Operating Activities (69,409) 302,542 (93,699) *91,052 (79,134)
Net Cash Flows (Used in)/From Investing Activities (66,224) (99,174) (62,068) (321,221) (164,591)
Net Cash Flows From/(Used in) Financing Activities 116,332 (199,713) 157,626 *254,771 241,231
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (21,496) 4,420 1,714 25,266 (5,446)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 48,434 26,938 31,358 33,072 58,338
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year# 26,938 31,358 33,072 58,338 52,892
# including effect on exchange rate difference
Financial Analysis 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
EBITDA Margin 7.58% 11.58% 11.31% 9.48% 7.46%
Profit Before Tax Margin 5.28% 9.18% 9.07% 7.25% 5.02%
Net Profit Margin 4.24% 8.36% 7.41% 6.04% 3.95%
Free Cash Flow (RM'000) (128,392) 207,792 (156,229) (312,302) (243,321)
ROE (Average Equity) 19.0% 28.5% 23.0% 18.7% 11.5%
ROA (Average Total Assets) 5.8% 10.7% 10.7% * 7.9% 4.4%
Earnings Per Share (sen) 19.05 19.89 22.51 21.82 14.86
Net Dividends Per Share (sen) 2.50 1.00 3.51 3.52 3.01
Payout Ratio 13.1% 5.0% 15.6% 16.1% 20.3%
Cash and Bank Balances (RM '000) 39,924 44,799 46,790 * 58,338 52,892
Total Borrowings (RM '000) 787,306 602,367 682,714 * 1,034,974 1,292,290
Gearing (net of cash) 1.56 0.84 0.67 * 0.82 0.92
* Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 43
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Revenue (RM'000)
PBT (RM ‘000)
Total Assets (RM ‘000)
Returns on Equity (ROE)
EBITDA (RM’000)
Net Profit (RM ‘000)
Shareholders’ Equity (RM ‘000)
Returns on Assets (ROA)
2,147,914
1,580,168
162,774
91,045
479,593
2,273,424
1,784,151
263,341
190,115
667,141
2,941,630
2,041,804
332,820
217,948
949,623
3,684,985
2,826,372
349,273
222,709
1,188,909
3,923,297
113,440
208,722
266,861
267,320
196,760
3,495,472
292,595
154,838
1,342,347
2017
2017
2017
2017
2017
2017
2018
2018
2018
2018
2018
2018
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
19.0%
5.8%
28.5%
10.7%
23.0%
10.7%
18.7% 7.9%
11.5% 4.4%
2021 2021
2020 2020
2019 2019
2018 2018
2017 2017
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
44 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Quarterly Analysis
Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000) 2020 2021 % Chg
Turnover
1st Quarter 909,382 960,121 5.6%
2nd Quarter 910,777 876,226 -3.8%
3rd Quarter 841,587 998,104 18.6%
4th Quarter 1,023,239 1,088,846 6.4%
3,684,985 3,923,297 6.5%
Net Profit
1st Quarter 72,165 33,896 -53.0%
2nd Quarter 56,976 36,389 -36.1%
3rd Quarter 46,779 34,455 -26.3%
4th Quarter 46,789 50,098 7.1%
222,709 154,838 -30.5%
Quarterly Turnover (RM'000)
Quarterly Net Profit (RM’000)
1,000,000 -
800,000 -
600,000 -
400,000 -
200,000 -
0 -
80,000 -
60,000 -
40,000 -
20,000 -
0 -
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
2021
2020
2021
2020
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 45
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
FY2021 was a challenging year for businesses worldwide,
with travel and social restrictions caused by the COVID-19
pandemic placing a dampener on consumer demand. This
downturn has especially affected discretionary purchases
such as chocolate, causing a chain effect that has in turn
led purchasers of cocoa-derived ingredients to rein in their
spending and to a decrease in the market prices of our core
products.
Compounding the uncertainty that the pandemic has
caused, a global shortage in containers has led to an
unprecedented rise in freight costs. In December 2021, The
Wall Street Journal reported that this mismatch between
shipping demand and capacity was expected to cause the
rates in many annual shipping contracts to double1. This
has understandably led some of our customers to delay
their shipments, resulting in higher inventory levels.
Furthermore, as of the publishing of this report, the ongoing
Russia-Ukraine conflict is expected to compound global
supply chain disruptions, with the rising price of oil and
other commodities set to exert additional upward pressure
on shipping rates2.
However, amidst the challenges presented by our operating
environment, we have recorded a resilient financial
performance while maintaining grinding activities at our
facilities at optimal utilisation rates, successfully meeting
the needs of our client base. Furthermore, our production
tonnage of cocoa ingredients (cocoa butter and cocoa
solids) for FY2021 were covered by committed sales. This
secured profitability during the year in review of RM154.8
million. However, due to the fall in the price of cocoa
butter, this resulted in a drop in our annual profit.
Looking at our industrial chocolate business, we recorded
strong contributions from SCHOKINAG, which saw
encouraging improvements in the second year after our
acquisition. SCHOKINAG posted RM32.8 million in EBITDA
for FY2021, more than double the RM14.8 million in EBITDA
recorded in the previous corresponding year. Contributing
factors to this positive performance included effective
fulfilment of customers’ orders, an increase in utilisation
rates and enhanced operational efficiency.
Taken as a whole, FY2021 evidenced the strength of our
business during challenging times while providing a
positive outlook for our business. This provides optimism
as our expansion plans come to fruition in FY2023 and
beyond, we will be able to fully capitalise on enhanced
cost efficiencies and capture a greater share of the global
cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolate market.
1 Wall Street Journal (2021), Shipping and Logistics Costs Are Expected
to Keep Rising in 2022
2 Lloyd’s List (2022), UN Says Ukraine War To Lead To Even Higher
Freight Rates
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
46 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report
The summary below outlines our major achievements in advancing sustainable economic, environmental and social
outcomes in FY2021.
With the installation of
2,800
solar panels installed, GCCM will have access to a
total capacity of 1,120 kilowatts peak (kWp) from
2021 onwards
Adoption of various product quality and safety
standards at key factories in Malaysia, Indonesia &
Germany, including:
• Food Safety Scheme Certification (FSSC)
• International Food Standard (IFS)
• Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP)
• ISO 9001: Quality Management System
• UTZ and Rainforest Alliance Standards
• Fairtrade Standards
• Halal and Kosher Certifications
Improved
biomass
generated steam production in GCCM and installed
a new biomass machine in GCBCM. Thus, reducing
reliance on non-renewable gas
Provision
of life insurance to cocoa farmers within our direct
sourcing network, offering them a level of financial
security for their livelihood
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS IN FY2021
In a continued climate of challenges, we stayed the course
andmadesignificantprogressonourplannedsustainability
initiatives, facilitating more support for the underserved
communities and creating employment opportunities in
new geographical regions, while seeking out innovations
that may reduce our environmental impact.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 47
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
REPORTING PRACTICE
Introduction
As a quickly expanding group with
presence in multiple countries and
regions, our practices and principles
have the ability to make lasting impact
and difference to the communities we
operate in. With sustainability placed
at the forefront of our operational
and decision-making approaches, we
ensure that economic, environmental
and social considerations are taken
into account at each stage of the
value creation process.
This goes beyond our financial
performance, and extends to
encompass responsible business
practices, positive impact on the
lives of those in the communities we
operate in and setting a meaningful
example to peers in the industry.
As such, we believe in looking beyond
our operational practices and building
a thriving sustainable cocoa sector
– where farmers are supported,
natural resources are protected
and preserved, employees are
provided opportunities for growth,
and economic benefits are shared
equitably.
Our Reporting Approach
This report has been prepared in
compliance with the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements and in reference to
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards. With guidance from the
GRI Standards, the report covers the
following key principles:
• Stakeholder Inclusiveness
– Capturing stakeholders’
expectations and concerns;
• Sustainability Performance –
Presenting key performance
indicators within the wider context
of sustainability;
• Material Matters – Prioritising
the key sustainability issues most
relevant to our Group;
• Completeness – Reporting on all
sustainability issues that are relevant
to our Group and in alignment with
content requirements.
Further to this, the sustainability topics
disclosed in this report have been
aligned with relevant GRI Standards
covering the following material
matters:
• GRI 201 - Economic Performance
2016
• GRI 202 - Market Presence 2016
• GRI 302 - Energy 2016
• GRI 306 - Waste 2020
• GRI307-EnvironmentalCompliance
2016
• GRI 401 - Employment 2016
• GRI 403 - Occupational Health and
Safety 2018
Scope & Boundaries
This report refers to the sustainability
performance and progress of GCB
for the period from 1 January 2021
to 31 December 2021 (the reporting
period of FY2021), unless otherwise
stated. Specifically, the sustainability
performance of the following
subsidiaries under the Group are
covered in this year’s report:
• Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer
Sdn Bhd (GCCM)
• GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn Bhd
(GCBCM)
• PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia (ACI)
• GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte Ltd
(GCBCS)
• SCHOKINAG-Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH (SSIG)
References to ‘GCB’, ‘the Group’, ‘the
Company’ and ‘we’ refer to Guan
Chong Berhad and its subsidiaries.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
48 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Restatement of Information
Last year, the Group transitioned to a more holistic and complete reporting approach in line with the requirements of the
GRI Standards and prepared its first sustainability report. This will be the second year that the Group’s sustainability report
is prepared to these standards. Additionally, this will be the first year that SSIG will be included in the scope of the Group’s
reporting since its acquisition.
Memberships & Associations
We strive to be an active member of our industry by contributing to key associations including:
Our Supply Chain
The Group strives to incorporate sustainability across our supply chain so as to align our strategies towards identifying
our business impacts on Economic, Environmental and Social (EES) and its primary relevance within the chain. This is to
ensure that we stay true to advocating sustainability beyond our organisation and continue to place high emphasis towards
embedding more sustainable elements with external parties in our supply chain.
External Assurance
In development of our current year’s approach towards sustainability reporting, we have maintained an internal assurance
methodology for the disclosure of this year’s Sustainability Report. As the Group makes further progress within our
sustainability journey, we will firmly consider the adoption of an external assurance for our disclosures in the near future.
Feedback & Availability
This report is publicly available online via our website at www.gcbcocoa.com.
We welcome your comments, questions and remarks. Enquiries can be directed to our headquarters.
Guan Chong Berhad
PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2, Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor
Telephone: +607-254 8888
Email: info@gcbcocoa.com
World Cocoa Foundation (WCF)
Cocoa & Forests Initiative (CFI)
01
02
German Initiative on Sustainable
Cocoa (Forum Nachhaltiger Kakao)
International Cocoa Initiative (ICI)
03
04
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 49
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
RESPONSIBLY SUSTAINING OUR POSITION AS A TOP GLOBAL COCOA PROCESSOR
Regardless of these challenges, we are proud to have
remained adaptive to changes, guided by our company’s
core values and goals. Our employees’ safety and health
remain an utmost priority, making the implementation
and enforcement of safety regulations our prime concern.
At the same time, we continued to take great pride in
maintaining the highest standards of product quality for
our customers, as we work towards our vision of being the
world’s leading and preferred cocoa partner.
For GCB, the year held great significance as it marked the
second year for many of our efforts: the continuation of the
Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) to veer us towards
accountability and commitment towards sustainability,
the implementation of several initiatives under the ‘Good
Cocoa & Beyond’ programme and our adoption of the GRI
Standards in sustainability reporting. It also saw the kick-
off in the actualisation of our sustainability aspirations—
the expansion of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
activities, the start of the Ivory Coast farmer programmes
and greater transparency in reporting. With coordinated
efforts to implement our sustainability vision across global
operations, GCB is making steadfast progress in keeping to
our commitments.
As a key player in the global cocoa sector, we are conscious
of the growing gravity of sustainability within the industry.
GCB continues to grow and learn through consistent
action to uphold its responsibility of contributing to an
ethical supply chain, striving to align ourselves to the best
practices available. We are set on ensuring responsible
practices throughout our supply chain, to safeguard
the future of cocoa supply, build a diverse and forward-
thinking workforce and, all the while, ensuring that high
quality of goods and services are consistently delivered to
our stakeholders.
This report aims to provide an objective and balanced
account of the various sustainability initiatives that we have
established across the EES spectrum, along with a detailed
review of the significant progress that we have made in
FY2021.
ETHICAL GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT
As a growing cocoa business, GCB acknowledges the
importance of administering a robust sustainability
framework that addresses the impacts of our business
activities. We prioritise the interests of our various
stakeholders and adopt a proactive approach in identifying
the potential risks associated with our operations. Given
our extensive years of experience in the cocoa industry, we
have established and implemented the highest standards
of safety and quality assurance across our business
operations, in compliance with international industrial best
practices.
With business facilities across the world, we are cognizant
of the varying regulations and legislations specific to
geographical boundaries where each entity operates.
We understand the need for developing a responsible
corporate culture within all regional and international
operation centres.
At GCB, we believe it is pertinent to address the broader
context of sustainability within the global cocoa sector. In
2021, the SSC devised operating procedures in accordance
to international sustainability best practices, putting in
place policies to govern the ethical operations of the
GCB value chain and striving to create an environment of
integrity within the organisation.
Dear Stakeholders,
“In this eventful year of 2021, businesses and communities across the globe
continue to witness challenges alongside exciting developments. Despite
the rollout of vaccines, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact many
industries, including the cocoa industry, while climate events disrupted the
lives of many. Disruptions to the global economy, supply chains and operational
procedures placed a strain on our business processes and people. ”
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
50 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
VALUING OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY
GCB recognises that human capital is the core upon
which sustainable success can be attained. Therefore,
we are committed to dedicating significant resources
into upholding our people’s safety, training and personal
growth, while promoting the development of a diverse and
inclusive workforce.
As many were forced to work remotely during this
pandemic, employee welfare was thrusted into the
spotlight. In aiding GCB’s workforce to adapt to the ‘new
normal’, we provided support to our employees in novel
ways. We continued to hold informative virtual sessions
for the health and wellness of our work-from-home
employees, deliver gift packages to combat COVID-19 and
launched stay-home bonding activities among employees
to keep the ties strong between teams physically apart.
Given our prominence in the global cocoa industry, it
requires us to be more present and involved in the various
communities that form the worldwide cocoa producing
eco-system. In view of the people adversely affected by
the pandemic, we stepped forward to lend support to
vulnerable communities in Malaysia, including children
affected by COVID-19. Additionally, in our efforts to counter
child labour within the supply chain, GCB has also become
an official signatory of the International Cocoa Initiative
(ICI), strengthening our efforts to address the issue in our
direct supply chain. GCB is dedicated to continue working
with industry players to ensure the ethicality of cocoa
production.
UPHOLDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) found that the global temperature
is expected to exceed 1.5°C of warming over the next
decades if no significant emission reductions are carried
out.
In the face of this, GCB acknowledges the urgency to
reduce our impact on the planet and places concerted
effort in reducing our environmental footprint. This is
achieved through a holistic approach prioritising the
optimisation of energy usage, waste production and water
consumption in all our business operations.
In addition to harnessing of solar power, GCB has also
stepped-up recycling efforts in the past years and
committed resources towards addressing environmental
impacts in our supply chain. Under our Good Cocoa
& Beyond programme, we have also begun the
implementation of a traceability programme across farms
within our direct cocoa bean sourcing network, in Ivory
Coast and is pursuing multiple accreditations to ensure the
validity of our environmental efforts.
Moving forward, we aim to continue exploring ways to
adopt environmental best practices with a two-pronged
approach of enhancing the business continuity while
protecting the environment in which we operate.
IN CONCLUSION
Despite the continued uncertainties in 2021, the
development of global events spurred us on towards
developing strategic initiatives to stay the course in
advancing our sustainability objectives.
In the second year of our Good Cocoa & Beyond
programme, GCB attained commendable progress with the
unyielding efforts of our employees. Looking ahead, GCB
will aim to address key challenges in our supply chain in
order to achieve our final goal of delivering 100% traceable
and sustainable cocoa ingredients by 2030. Taking on the
responsibility to these initiatives reflect our unwavering
commitment towards approaching sustainability
thoughtfully, progressively and comprehensively.
In the context of the current operating environment,
we are truly encouraged by the progress we have made
collectively. We are sincerely appreciative of all the
contributions, support and loyalty of our stakeholders,
both internally and externally throughout this journey. We
trust that this sustainability report will inform and inspire
you towards further bolstering your mutually beneficial
relationship with GCB. Together, we can reap the rewards
of building a sustainable future. Let us come together to
strengthen our commitment towards a sustainable future!
Thank you.
Brandon Tay Hoe Lian
Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 51
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
The governance of sustainability matters at GCB is underscored by our commitment to the highest standards of corporate
governance across all our operations. To this end, a detailed and Group-wide corporate governance framework has been
developed based on the following:
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (referred to herein as “MCCG”)
• Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Governance Guide (3rd Edition)
• Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market Listing Requirements (Listing Requirements)
• Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide (2nd Edition)
Furthermore, our approach to value creation is based on a principle of “shared growth”, whereby we believe that our
actions must always balance the need of achieving operational targets with matters that are important to our stakeholders
and the surrounding communities and environment. In accordance with this, the following economic, environmental and
social considerations and practices have been embedded at the Group level:
Economic Environmental Social
Business practices are
continuously reviewed to ensure
a focus on long-term sustainable
growth for our stakeholders,
with the imperative of achieving
economic targets while
complying with all relevant laws,
rules and regulations
Processes are continuously
monitored and improved to
optimise our environmental
impact. Initiatives are regularly
introduced to:
• Reduce and/or mitigate our
environmental footprint
• Enhance awareness of the
importance of lowering energy
consumption
• Uphold compliant
environmental practices
• Adopt operational processes
that minimise environmental
harm
Across our subsidiaries, best
practices are adopted to
ensure the highest standards in
occupational health and safety,
while an understanding of the
needs of local communities is
forged at all levels in order to
deliver initiatives that improve
lives and livelihoods.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
52 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Our Sustainability Governance Structure
As detailed above, the integration of business and sustainability is spearheaded at the highest levels of governance, with
the Group’s Board of Directors (Board) assuming the vital role of driving awareness and adoption of sustainability practices
across the Group.
Supporting the Group’s sustainability agenda, a Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) is responsible for overseeing the
process of embedding sustainability practices in the business processes of each of the Group’s subsidiaries, in line with the
Board’s direction. The roles of the SSC also include:
• Preparing the Group’s annual Sustainability Report in line with the Bursa Malaysia Requirements, in addition to
preparing other sustainability disclosures as and when required;
• Carrying out detailed materiality assessments to identify sustainability topics relevant to the Group’s business;
• Carrying out stakeholder engagement activities with the aim of identifying the importance of sustainability topics to
specific stakeholder groups;
• Undertaking thorough assessments of the risks and opportunities relevant to specific sustainability topics; and
• Overseeing the management of strategies and initiatives related to all sustainability topics identified.
As detailed in the diagram below, the SSC is chaired by an Executive Director of the Group while also comprising General
Managers and Senior Managers of all functional units, ensuring that issues relevant to all areas of the Group’s wide business
footprint are adequately considered.
To promote the efficient adoption of initiatives at the subsidiary level, five Support Groups work collaboratively with the
SSC, comprising members of GCCM, GCBCS, ACI, GCBCM and SSIG respectively. Moving forward, the Group will consider
the establishment of a sustainability governance structure that incorporates a wider range of its business units.
Board of
Directors
Support Group Support Group Support Group Support Group Support Group
Guan Chong Cocoa
Manufacturer
Sdn Bhd
GCB Cocoa
Singapore Pte Ltd
PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia
GCB Cocoa
Malaysia Sdn Bhd
SCHOKINAG-
Schokolade-
Industrie GmbH
Sustainability
Steering Committee
(“SSC”)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 53
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Business Ethics Policy & Code of Conduct
The Group’s core values and culture are enshrined at all
levels with the Business Ethics Policy & Code of Conduct
(henceforth referred to as “Code of Conduct”), which sets
forth appropriate guidelines in the following areas among
others:
• Dealing with stakeholders including employees,
customers and business associates
• Managing work environments
• Dealing with company assets
• Dealing with potential conflicts of interest
Relevant policies guiding practices at the subsidiary level
are continuously monitored and updated as and when
necessary to ensure they comply with industry and
jurisdictional regulations while remaining relevant to the
Group’s processes.
Our full Business Ethnics Policy & Code of
Conduct is available on GCB’s corporate website.
Group-wide Sustainability Policies
The Group’s Environmental Policy provides specific
strategies with regard to conserving natural resources
in the natural environments within which we operate,
promoting the preservation of biodiversity, and complying
with all relevant environmental legislation in our operating
countries. The policy also dictates that all suppliers of
the Group should adopt specific measures to minimise
any negative environmental impact associated with their
operations.
Similarly, our commitment to sustainability is reflected in
the introduction of a Group-level Water Policy that governs
water withdrawal and discharge. The aim of the policy is
to reduce wastewater, reduce water contamination and
maximise the use of recycled water.
Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblower Procedure
The Group’s Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblower
Procedure was adopted with the purpose of ensuring that
our operations and business conduct are conducted with
robust safeguards against bribery, corruption or other
similarly unethical acts.
The policy dictates that all Group employees or agents
acting for or on behalf of the Group are prohibited from,
directly or indirectly, receiving or providing benefits such
as gifts, commissions, kickbacks or any benefits in similar
nature from or to any persons or entities who deal with
GCB (third parties), where the benefits would reasonably
be expected to influence the performance of employees’
or agents’ duties in any aspect. In addition, all employees
are required to inform third parties of the Anti-Corruption
Policy and to request the third party’s compliance.
In establishing the policy, the Board took cognisance of
Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
Act 2009 which came into force on 1 June 2020. In
implementing the practices outlined in the policy, relevant
trainings are provided to Directors, management and all
other employees across the Group to ensure they are
aware of and understand the policy, upon which a pledge
is formally executed by each individual to stipulate their
commitment.
The Group’s whistleblower procedure provide a
mechanism for all employees of the Group to report
instances of unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud
or dishonesty, illegal activities or violation of the Group’s
Code of Conduct. If the case in question cannot be
resolved through normal reporting lines and procedures,
it is elevated to the attention of the Chairman of the Audit
Committee, who will then assign the case to Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM) Coordinators or appropriate
independent management teams for further investigation.
With each report received, the identities of whistle-blowers
or issues as reported are kept at strict confidentiality
throughout the whistleblowing process.
OurfullAnti-CorruptionPolicyandWhistleblowing
Procedure is available on GCB’s corporate
website.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
54 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
EMPOWERING STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS
With our business interests spread across multiple sectors and jurisdictions, stakeholder consultations are integral to
enabling a fully integrated view of our business and its economic, environmental and social impacts, and thereby identifying
issues that are essential to our ability to operate sustainably. Aided by our feedback channels and collaborative platforms,
we are able to identify these matters that are most pertinent to our stakeholders and devise our sustainability initiatives in
alignment with these action areas.
As we move ahead in our sustainability journey, the Group intends to implement a more structured approach towards
stakeholder engagement, involving both internal and external stakeholders, in order to facilitate better outcomes.      
The following is a summary of our stakeholder engagements in FY2021.
Stakeholders
Key/
Primary
Active
Engagement
Mode of
Engagement
Frequency of
Engagement
Shareholders /
Investors - This
includes institutional
investors, analysts, retail
shareholders
Yes High Annual General Meeting
Extraordinary General Meeting
Quarterly investor briefing
Annually
As needed
Quarterly
Media - This includes
journalists from tri-
media and online news
sites
Neutral Low Press interview / release As needed
Government /
Regulators - This
includes national and
local government
authorities, regulators
Yes Moderate Meetings
Electronic communication
As needed
Suppliers / Contractors
- This includes
organisation and groups
that provides services
and/or products
Yes High Meetings
Electronic communications
Supplier assessment
As planned/ needed
As planned/ needed
Annually
Customers - This
includes purchasers and
product users
Yes High Online conferencing meetings
Electronic communications
As planned/ needed
Employees - This
includes employees of
top management and
general staff
Yes Moderate Face-to-face meetings
Online conferencing meetings
Annual appraisals
Email announcements,
Whistleblowing channel
As needed
As needed
Annually
Local Communities -
This includes the group
of interacting people
sharing an environment
where the business
operates
Neutral Low Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) donation events
CSR volunteer events
As planned/ needed
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 55
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
PRIORTISING OUR KEY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
The Group has developed a comprehensive materiality assessment process to provide an objective view on the
sustainability issues that matter most. The process includes consultations with internal and external stakeholders, leading
to the identification of the sustainability topics disclosed in this report.
The Group’s materiality assessment process includes:
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Moving forward, we will continue to review and refine our materiality assessment process to cater to evolving needs in our
operations and optimise the quality and breadth of stakeholder inputs.
1
2
3
4
Identification
The SSC undertakes detailed research of peer companies and business trends to
develop a robust list of sustainability issues relevant to the cocoa industry
Shortlisting
A preliminary shortlist of sustainability topics is established by narrowing down the list
formulated at the identification stage, aided by interviews with key internal stakeholders
comprising the senior management team
Prioritisation
Topics are then further prioritised through an analysis of the potential influence of the
issue on stakeholder assessments of the Group and the potential influence of the issue
on the Group’s economic, environmental and social impacts
Validation
The identified material issues are then presented to the Chief Executive Officer for
validation, resulting in the finalisation of key sustainability topics which are disclosed
in this report
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
56 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Materiality Matrix
A key tool used in the materiality assessment process is the materiality matrix, which is deployed at stage 3 (prioritisation)
to cross-analyse each topic’s potential impact on stakeholder considerations against the topic’s impact on the Group’s
sustainability impacts.
With 12 sustainability topics identified from the broader assessment process, the Materiality Matrix facilitated the
prioritisation of seven topics as High Priority, for which our impacts will be disclosed to our best ability in this report. A
further five topics were identified as Emerging Priority, and will be subject to continued monitoring with a view to inclusion
in reports during future years in review.
MATERIALITY MATRIX
8
6
2
1
7
9
3
4
5
11
10
12
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Significance of Impact
Influence on Stakeholder
HIGH
PRIORITY
1. Economic Performance
2. Market Presence
4. Energy
5. Effluents and Waste
6. Environmental Compliance
7. Employment
8. Occupational Health & Safety
EMERGING
PRIORITY
3. Procurement Practices
9. Training & Education
10. Non-discrimination
11. Local Communities
12. Customer Safety & Health
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 57
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
SUSTAINING GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY THROUGH
ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT
Why It Matters
In these extraordinary times, GCB remains committed to
delivering value to our trusted stakeholders and achieve
long-term economic growth. Our growth is motivated by
our innate determination to conduct ourselves responsibly,
while placing emphasis on reinvesting into both our
business and our people. With this approach, we are
able to harness new business opportunities, manage and
enhance existing stakeholders’ confidence and maintain a
highly motivated and vibrant workforce. In establishing this
synergy, we are able to reach outcomes which accelerates
our growth and ensures the relevance and viability of our
business.
How We Approach It
GCB aims to deliver continued and sustained quality
growth whilst staying committed to sustainable business
operations and the highest professional standards within
the industry. Supported by a strong governance structure,
we ensure that business operations are fully complied
across the various subsidiaries and business operations. This
includes upholding the integrity of compliant disclosures
and ethical business conducts, as applicable in areas where
we operate.
With support from our Board, the Chief Financial Officer,
the Finance and Administration Department to our
executive-level managers, our governance structure
enables the Group to coordinate and monitor its business
activities effectively. The implementation of measures
such as our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy
also showcases how our Group is capable of promoting
integrity throughout its business operations, thus ensuring
the sustainability of our core business activities.
Through the years, we have emphasised and continuously
strived at several key objectives for our Group’s core
business, i.e., cocoa bean processing which includes
high utilization of cocoa grinding facility, cost efficiency
optimization, adaptable and agile response towards
changes in the cocoa business, forward thinking in planning
strategy, ethical and responsible business conduct.
This strategic and dynamic approach firmly applies to
our products where we are deeply dedicated to creating
high-quality and consumer safe products. Leading on
such ambition, our Group has adopted various local and
international standards to ensure this at our key factories
in Malaysia, Indonesia and Germany, which includes our
adherence to various standards such as:
In addition to these accreditations, GCB conducts
annual enterprise risk assessment exercise, which helps
us to accurately identify risks and implement mitigation
actions across all our different business functions – from
manufacturing, strategic, financial, legal and compliance
related matters, among others. This is complemented by
other monitoring activities, such as our monthly operation
meetings for key departments which are dedicated to
specific aspect of our operations (such as on purchasing
and storage strategy, trading and etc.) as well as weekly
reviews for sales, marketing and production planning.
GCB also utilises internal and external audits to provide
an objective assessment of business performance and to
identify areas for improvement, if applicable.
Our Performance
In 2021, GCB continued in its concerted effort to remain
resilient amidst the impact of COVID-19. We are pleased
with the encouraging performance. Our business has good
momentum, with a recorded revenue of RM 3.9 billion. As
compared to RM 3.7 billion in 2020. Despite the higher
revenue, the Group’s Profit After Tax (PAT) stood lower at
RM154.8 million in comparison to RM222.7 million in the
previous financial year. For further details, kindly refer to
the economic performance of the Group in the Financial
Section of this report.
Read more: Financial Performance Review, page 40
• Food Safety Scheme Certification
(FSSC)
• International Food Standard (IFS)
• Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP)
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control
Points (HACCP)
• ISO 9001: Quality Management
System
• UTZ and Rainforest Alliance
Standards
• Fairtrade Standards
• Halal and Kosher Certifications
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
58 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
MARKET PRESENCE
DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH INDIRECT
ECONOMY CONTRIBUTION
Why It Matters
In GCB’s pursuit for economic growth, we strongly believe
in achieving growth in a sustainable manner, thus placing
emphasis on generating positive effects, in the process, for
our people and society at large. We remain committed to
providing wages above the threshold required by applicable
legislation in order to benefit local communities and our
employees. This is aligned with our view that wage is a key
element in bringing a direct impact onto a society, which
also ideally enable individuals to safeguard their well-being.
In this regard, we are wholly committed to providing wages
that are fair.
How We Approach It
GCB recognises that people are the core of our operation
and therefore, we ensure a fairly compensated working
environment. In doing so, we not only incorporate a fair
wage system, we also place a significant importance on
the fulfilment of our people – including the advocacy for
participating in trainings and workshops outside of their
job focus. As a Group with operations in multiple regions,
we strongly adhere to minimum wage requirements as
stipulated by local legislation in the jurisdictions where we
operate, for example, adherence to the Employment Act
(1955) in Malaysia and Indonesian Labour Laws.
Our dedicated Finance and Administration Department,
with coordination and support of the Human Resources
Department, manages all matters related to wages, helping
to guarantee that our wages are consistent, standardised
and fair. The Group determines its remuneration structure
according to the latest market trends and practices,
while proactively seeking improved ways to align our
remuneration structures with our values of equality and
non-discrimination. GCB’s designated management team
also regularly participates in trainings and briefings in
order to keep abreast on the knowledge of current market
requirements. Base salaries for all our employees are
continuously evaluated and adjusted according to various
factors, such as job requirements, market conditions,
educational qualifications and experience. In addition to
prevailing regulations, our approach on this is guided by
the values as embodied in our Code of Conduct.
In order to establish an open and transparent
communication with our employees, we encourage all
to share constructive feedback on matters related to
remuneration through our annual employee appraisals or
via the respective Department Heads. We also maintain
clear and effective grievance policies and procedures for
employees to communicate their concerns in a safe and
confidential manner. This supports the aforementioned
approach and that our management is unceasingly open
to feedback, in order to create an environment that is
beneficial for both the employees and the business.
Our performance on this matter is assessed through the
conduct of internal audits, providing assurance that we
comply with all applicable minimum wage standards. If
areas of improvement are identified, we work promptly and
thoughtfully to address the issue and implement necessary
improvements with all parties involved.
Our Performance
For FY2021, we are pleased to report complete compliance
with minimum wage thresholds as determined by
applicable laws within the regions which our reported
entities operate. This means that no employees operating
within our Group was compensated less than the required
in FY2021, with the distribution of such entry level wages
being similarly equal in terms of gender.
Looking ahead, we will
continue to uphold our values
of maintaining and promoting
equality throughout our
operations, ensuring that our
remuneration structure is equal
and fair regardless of factors
such as age, gender or race.
In doing so, we believe that we will continue to maintain
a strong and motivated workforce – a vital ingredient for
sustainable economic growth.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 59
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
ENERGY
ESTABLISHING RESPONSIBLE AND RENEWABLE
ENERGY PRACTICES
Why It Matters
As a cocoa processor, we are ever conscious of the
energy consumption across our business activities. It
is in our beliefs that responsible and sustainable energy
consumption is a key aspect to building effective climate
action to accelerate the adoption of renewable energy
in processing facilities. Additionally, based on the World
Energy Transition Outlook published by the International
Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), energy efficiency is
crucial to reducing the world’s carbon emission and limit
the global temperature rise.
How We Approach It
As part of our multipronged approach, we target reductions
in the current forms of energy we consume—electricity,
gas and steam, and began a concerted effort to switch to
renewable energy sources. Recognising that management
change alone is not sufficient, GCB is also working to raise
awareness and gradually educate our employees about the
subject of sustainable energy consumption.
Our mission to optimise energy consumption has evolved
over the years. In recent years, GCB has set up energy
management and data collection systems across the
subsidiaries covered in this report, with a focus to be
better positioned to monitor and manage our energy
consumption. The energy measured is reported via the
key indicator of Giga Joules per metric ton of cocoa
beans processed (GJ/mt). The successful roll out of this
initiative enables us to consistently review and improve
the energy efficiency of our operations. At GCB, we are
set on continuously improving, staying in the loop with
global best practices and seeking to align ourselves with
the relevant standards.
As we look ahead, we aim to further expand our efforts
in harnessing renewable energy and vastly improving our
energy conservation efforts. We strive to keep abreast
on new methods and technologies to leverage on, in
our endeavour to optimize our power consumption and
increase energy efficiency.
Our Performance
GCB is pleased to see an upward trajectory with our
progress in FY2021, towards the reduction of our reliance
on non-renewable energy sources. With the introduction
of solar energy usage at GCCM in June 2020 and GCBCM
in December 2021, we are gradually seeing meaningful
change to our net energy consumption over the next few
years.
Of the total renewable energy, a vast majority came
from GCCM as the GCBCM plant only started the
implementation of steam generation by biomass in May
2021. However, despite the shorter runway for impacting
change, a significant shift towards renewable energy has
been achieved. This process minimizes our dependence
on natural gas, reduce CO2 emissions as well as provide an
avenue for the reusing of cocoa processing by-products.
Thus, promoting a circular economy and eliminating the
need to purchase additional fuel source that pollute the
environment.
4.00 -
3.50 -
3.00 -
2.50 -
2.00 -
1.50 -
1.00 -
0.50 -
0.00 -
3.44 3.42
3.16
2.64 2.69
1.12 0.99
3.41
GCCM GCBCM ACI SSIG SSIG
Cocoa beans processed Chocolate
Processed
Specific Energy Consumed (GJ/MT)
2020
2021
Figure 1. Specific Energy Consumed per MT of Cocoa Beans or Chocolate Processed
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
60 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
In 2021, GCCM’s processing consisted of more energy-intensive cocoa butter production, based on the order demands.
Hence, there was a slight increase in energy consumed. GCBCM, on the other hand, experienced an improvement in
energy efficiency since the installation of new modern biomass boilers. These boilers were able to generate higher energy
yield. Lastly, ACI had started additional bleaching process in 2021, which is steam-intensive.
SSIG’s operation includes processing cocoa beans and manufacturing chocolate products. Hence the energy consumed is
split between two processes for accurate representation of energy consumption. SSIG only process cocoa beans to liquor
stage, unlike the other subsidiaries which process a full range of cocoa products. Cocoa beans processing is a small part
of SSIG’s operation, while chocolate mixing is the main operation of the facility.
The in-depth energy breakdown per ton of cocoa beans for GCBCM and GCCM are provided above in Figure 2 to visualise
the positive increase in renewable energy harnessed as well as the lowered reliance on non-renewable energy sources.
Of the subsidiaries, ACI had the highest total energy consumption, while having the highest output – resulting in a lower
energy consumed per MT of cocoa beans processed as compared to GCCM and GCBCM, which have similar production
processes. Additionally, in comparison to 2020, ACI had a slight 2% increase due to the additional process of bleaching,
which led to an increase in energy consumption via natural gas in 2021.
Figure 2. Energy Consumption by Entity
Steam Purchased
Natural Gas
Electricity
Biomass
Solar
350,000 -
300,000 -
250,000 -
200,000 -
150,000 -
100,000 -
50,000 -
0.00 -
GJ
GCBCM GCCM ACI SSIG
88,478 99,935 191,560
13,277
2,064
62,023
121,395
99,246
67,743
4,829
75,766
30,436
28
Note:
• This performance data excludes GCBCS as the subsidiary is only involved in the business segment of trading cocoa beans, cocoa-derived food
ingredients and cocoa products.
• GCCM and GCBCM increased cocoa beans processed by 12% and 10% respectively, as compared to 2020.
• This is the first year for the inclusion of SSIG’s data into our report. Therefore, prior year’s data are reflected as 0, unless otherwise stated. SSIG
manufactures chocolate, apart from processing cocoa beans. Hence energy data was split to illustrate both production units respectively.
• For the performance data from 2020 onwards, the group expanded the measurement of total energy consumption to include electricity, natural
gas, steam and renewable energy.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 61
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Following the launch of the solar energy pilot project in GCCM in 2020, GCCM has since generated a total of 4,830 GJ
of energy in FY2021. The small but significant success of this initiative has paved the way for GCB to continue with such
implementations in other areas of the business. Hence, reducing the reliance on non-renewable energy sources will be
the cornerstone of GCB’s endeavour towards sustainable energy consumption. Similar solar energy initiatives are slated to
be implemented at other entities within the organization in the coming years.
Amidst the increment of input by 10% in 2021, GCBCM has recorded a reduction of 8% in energy consumed per ton of
cocoa beans processed. This is the result of the new modern biomass boilers installed at GCBCM, which is able to obtain
higher energy yield from the biomass hence displacing natural gas consumption and lowering overall energy to process
cocoa beans.
Figure 3. Energy Breakdown by Percentage
Steam Purchased
Natural Gas
Electricity
Biomass
Solar
120% -
100% -
80% -
60% -
40% -
20% -
0% -
GJ/MT
GCCM 2020 GCCM 2021 GCBCM 2020 GCBCM 2021
37.99%
0.56%
36.48%
23.87%
1.10%
36.77%
36.52%
24.93%
1.78%
60.90%
39.10%
45.44%
38.91%
15.63%
0.01%
Overall, GCCM consumed a slightly higher specific energy in 2021 due to greater natural gas usage for steam-intensive
cocoa butter production. GCCM had stepped up renewable biomass-generated steam, resulting in increased renewable
energy harnessed and lower natural gas percentage in their overall facility energy usage breakdown. Significantly,
biomass-generated steam makes up a quarter of the energy requirement for GCCM. The facility did not purchase any
additional steam as all requirements could be fulfilled internally in 2021. In 2020, GCCM electricity consumption was lower
than ‘business-as-usual’ due to the shutdown of the powder plant for three months. Hence, in comparison to 2020, the
electricity consumption presented in Figure 3 has increased. However, in 2021, GCCM saved 166 GJ of energy due to the
process temperature control optimisation measures and upgrade of facility ventilation.
As shared in our report last year, following the success at GCCM, GCBCM has implemented the use of new technology,
high-efficiency biomass boiler in their plant using internally generated cocoa shells since May 2021. This has resulted in a
significant reduction of 16% in natural gas reliance. GCCM prioritise biomass more than natural gas in steam generation.
Additionally, the facility can expect increasing renewable energy input via solar energy as the solar panel system started
operation only in the final month of 2021.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
62 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
The energy source composition for processing facilities were represented to show the share of renewable and non-
renewable energy usage in each facility.
Figure 4. Energy Source Composition by Entity in 2021
Non-Renewable
Renewable
120% -
100% -
80% -
60% -
40% -
20% -
0% -
GCCM GCBCM ACI SSIG
73%
27%
84%
16%
0% 0%
100% 100%
Note:
Figure 4 excludes GCBCS as the subsidiary is only involved in the business segment of trading cocoa beans, cocoa-derived food ingredients and
cocoa products.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 63
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
WASTE
A MINDFUL APPROACH TO WASTE MANAGEMENT
Why It Matters
Given the growing global population, paired with unsustainable resource consumption, it is inevitable that we see the effects
of an accelerating climate change. As part of our mission to reduce environmental impact and align with regulations, GCB
is extensively committed towards mitigating any negative impacts caused by our business activities. Over the past years,
GCB has established practices extending beyond minimum legal requirements. As a topic of concern for our customers,
GCB is also committed to be consistent in our efforts to regulate our waste.
Group wide sustainable waste management processes are also progressively initiated across our operations, to optimize
resource efficiency as well as greatly minimise the environmental impact of waste we produce.
How We Approach It
GCB continues to prioritise full compliance towards all relevant statutory and regulatory bodies, with regard to internal waste
management. In Malaysia, this entails adherence to the Environment Quality (Industrial Effluent) Regulations 2009 (Standard
A) and the conditions stipulated within said regulation’s Fifth Schedule, while in Indonesia, we remain fully compliant with
regulations specified within PERMENLHK-05-2014 ref 47 and PP22-2021, Undang-undang Pemerintah No. 18 tahun 2008 and
Peraturan Pemerintah No. 81 tahun 2012. Additionally, SSIG strictly adheres to German’s Federal Water Act for water disposal
and local waste disposal by The Waste Management Act.
We established specialised water treatment facilities within the factories of all subsidiaries covered in this report, to
ensure minimal adverse environmental impact on the grounds we operate in. These treatment facilities serve to remove
contaminants from the wastewater so that the effluent may be returned to nature’s water cycle.
Treated wastewater is monitored daily with the use of a barometer. Monthly reports on the results of daily quality check
are submitted to relevant local authorities, such as the Department of Environment (DOE). A Safety Officer or Health,
Safety and Environment (HSE) representative is assigned to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of the wastewater treatment
process.
In line with the above activities, GCB also stringently advocates responsible recycling practices amongst employees
through the provision of designated collection areas for recyclable items such as cartons, papers, scrap metals and plastic.
A supervisor is assigned to oversee this process and ensure maximum compliance at each of our operating premise.
Internally generated cocoa shells are reused as fuel for biomass boilers in GCCM and GCBCM, promoting a circular
economy instead of purchasing additional fuel source.
Our Performance
Conscientiously driven by our underlying objective to mitigate any negative impact to the environment caused by our
operational activities, GCB remains attentive towards the increasing adoption of best practices in managing the waste we
produce.
Overall, the amount of waste generated across the group has increased due to higher production capacity in 2021.
In addition, we also included the waste disposed by SSIG in 2021, which was not accounted for in 2020. Ultimately, we
aim to continually enhance our waste treatment processes and waste recycling initiatives, while keeping an eye open for
additional measures that can be undertaken to improve our performance year after year.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
64 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Figure 5. Volume of Treated Water Discharged (m3)
In 2021, GCBCM recorded an increase in production capacity, which explains the increase in water discharged. At GCCM
however, the wastewater plant was shut down for two months due to upgrading works. Therefore, the facility reported a
much lower volume of water discharged as waste water was diverted to a third-party for treatment. The increase in water
discharged in ACI was due to changes in the process recipe to meet more stringent customer demands in 2021.
Since the last report, we have improved upon our data collection methods. As a result, the waste management data value
for 2020 were updated to reflect a more accurate comparison. Hazardous waste disposed across the subsidiaries amounted
to 100 MT in 2021. No comparative figure is presented as the data collection in 2020 was incomplete. Improvement in data
collection process is underway to gather accurate and comparable data in the coming years.
16,000 -
14,000 -
12,000 -
10,000 -
8000 -
6000 -
4000 -
2000 -
0 -
1,104
2,846
5,908
4,741
5,940
6,652
0
14,000
GCBCM GCCM ACI SSIG
2020
2021
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Note:
The above figure presents data of water discharged in processing facilities only. Hence, GCBCS is excluded.
m3
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 65
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Note:
* Due to improved data collection methods, landfilling data for GCBCM is only accounted for starting in 2021.
Hence the increment of non-hazardous waste for GCBCM and landfilling increased due to the additional data input.
Figure 6. Total Non-hazardous Waste Disposed (MT)
400 -
350 -
300 -
250 -
200 -
150 -
100 -
50 -
0 -
378
377
228
119
27 28
1
GCBCM* GCCM ACI SSIG
2020
2021
MT
0
Figure 7. Breakdown of Non-hazardous Waste by Treatment or Disposal Method (MT)
350 -
300 -
250 -
200 -
150 -
100 -
50 -
0 -
251
198
55
43
283
329
Recycling Landfilling* Disposed
2020
2021
MT
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
66 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
UPHOLDING RIGOROUS ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE
Why It Matters
In 2021, there was an upward trend in conversations
surrounding the sustainability agenda where more
emphasis is placed on actionable sustainable measures
as a result of physical manifestations of climate change.
The Glasgow Pact to halt and reverse forest loss and land
degradation by 2030 was signed by 141 countries as of
2021. At COP26, world leaders recognise the importance
of forests, biodiversity and sustainable land use in achieving
a balance between anthropogenic greenhouse gas
emissions and removal by carbon sinks. The concept of net
zero has also been prominent within the corporate industry
and fortunately, in parallel to this discussion, there has
been a visible increase in corporate commitments driven
and endorsed at a CEO-level in companies that are readily
embracing sustainable transformation.
As part of the food processing business, GCB also see
ourselves closely tied to environmental sustainability
within our operations. Our management remains firm on
adhering to environmental compliance, minimising impact
where we operate in.
We continue to embrace an active stance in addressing
environmental matters, keeping ourselves attuned to
best practices, while implementing measures to meet
the expectations of regulatory authorities and our valued
customers.
How We Approach It
In GCB, our operations are guided by our overarching
Environmental Policy covering all subsidiaries. It necessitates
the key commitments of the Group, setting the foundational
initiatives to address them. Compliance to environmental
regulation is firmly enforced across all our subsidiaries,
meeting the respective local regulations. Depending on
the entity, responsibility for the monitoring will be assumed
by the Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Committee or
appointed Safety Officer.
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
In efforts to further formalise our commitment, GCCM and
GCBCM are training competent personnel for waste water
treatment and schedule waste management. Both entities
are also set to meet Standard A, which includes Environment
Quality (Industrial Effluent Regulations, 2009) as well as Fifth
Schedule to The Industrial Effluent Regulations, 2009 in
Malaysia.
		
Monitoring of compliance is undertaken within all aspects
of our operations to ensure constant adherence with
local environmental rules and regulations, specifically the
Environment Quality Act 1974 in Malaysia, Law No. 32/2009
on Environmental Protection and Management in Indonesia
and Waste Management Act in Germany.
Various key compliance initiatives were carried out
previously were continued in FY2021, including air emission
and stack emission monitoring, monthly lab testing of water
quality (with reports sent to the DOE), annual boundary
noise assessment, depending on the entity ambient air
quality inspections. All these key initiatives are to ensure that
our practices and by-product from our operations stay in
compliant with applicable regulations whist ensuring as well
that such initiatives bring wider value to our environmentally
conscious objectives.
Our Performance
In FY2021, GCB maintained its unrelenting commitment in
ensuring that all entities and operational units within the
Group meet or surpass the necessary environmental related
regulations, undertake strict compliance monitoring and
continue to adopt relevant and beneficial eco-conscious
initiatives. Our dedication ensured that there were no
significant non-compliance concerns for all entities within
this reporting period.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 67
EMPLOYMENT
FOSTERING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE TALENT
FLOURISHES
Why It Matters
At GCB, it is established that our growth and expansion is
reliant on our most valuable asset – our people. They bring
forth an array of industry knowledge and trends, along
with a deep understanding of our processes. This sets the
tone for continuous improvement within GCB, actualising
a foundation for our business sustainability in the long run.
We stringently adhere to employment practices that
promote diversity and inclusion. In doing so, we pride
ourselves as being a progressive and socially responsible
organisation. We have created a meritocratic environment
in which achievement is fairly rewarded and equal
opportunities for professional development is readily
provided for all employees. Ultimately, as our global
footprint continues to expand, our reputation as a
progressive and equitable employer will allow us to attract
and retain talent that can maximise the potential of the
opportunities our presence offers.
How We Approach It
While the aim to be a good employer begins with the right
intentions, the actionable aspect of it can only be carried out
when practices are ingrained and enshrined at a structural
level. As such, we have inculcated a firm belief in fair
employment within our organisation, on the basis that such
a practice will lead to favourable business outcomes.
In making this a reality, our Human Resource & Admin
Department governs all employer-employee dealings
across the entities covered in this reporting. The department
is responsible for overseeing all matters relating to
employee (such as general welfare, remuneration, benefits,
training and other related areas) and applying procedures
that ensure decisions are made objectively and without
any element of discrimination. From there, the department
also monitors and reports on key employment-related
performance such as employee turnover rate and leave
utilisation in monthly meetings. Recognising that the
relationship between employer and employee is two-way
in nature, GCB’s Employee Handbook and Code of Conduct
outlines the principal guidelines that employees must
adhere and practice in any circumstances. In this area, our
Human Resource & Admin Department plays a key role by
ensuring that awareness, guidance and updates are regularly
disseminated across to the employees through refresher
courses and suitable training programmes.
Besides, we also strive to stay abreast and in line with
best practices on employee entitlements and benefits.
Prevailing market requirements and standards are regularly
monitored, and our policies are adapted to adhere to the
specific requirements of each country where we operate.
We constantly aim to provide the same benefits to contract
and intern-level employee as we do to our entire permanent
workforce wherever possible.
Furthermore, we place specific emphasis on supporting
the needs of new parents among our employees. Maternity
leave of between 60 – 90 days (depending on the respective
entity) and paternity leave of 2 days are provided to all parents
within our workforce, while all our factories have designated
nursing rooms and reserved car parks for pregnant women.
As we continue to benchmark ourselves and seek for
improvements, the conduct of monthly performance review
on matters relating to our employees is carried out with
such objective.
We are equally cognisant of the importance of giving
our employees a formal avenue to build an interactive
relationship as well as a platform to discuss and relay any
concerns related to their daily working affairs. In Malaysia,
this is carried out through the Sports Recreational Welfare
Club (SRWC) which, apart from organising sports and
welfare activities to promote healthy lifestyles and team
bonding, also meet once a month to discuss any employee
welfare issues and propose action items to be elevated to the
attention of management. In Indonesia, a similar workers’
committee, i.e., BIPARTIT, plays this important role.
In instances where employees feel that anonymous
disclosure of a particular issue is required (for example, if
the issue involves the employee’s immediate superior), our
well-established grievance procedures and whistleblowing
channel are adequately in place and open for all to access.
All grievances are dealt with confidentially by the Human
Resource & Admin Department and are escalated to the
relevant senior management team, Audit Committee or the
Board when necessary. This structure is to ensure that all
issues are adequately addressed with priority and rectified
with the best course of actions.
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
68 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Our Performance
Given the volatility in the global business landscape, we fell short of our aim of maintaining an overall employee turnover rate
of 10% or less. Nevertheless, our continued efforts to enhance our employment practices will allow us to strike a balance
between immediate business success and long-term employee-oriented achievements in due course.
Figure 8. Workforce Headcount, New Hires and Employee Turnover in 2021, By Entity
Workforce headcount
New Hires
Employee Turnover
600 -
500 -
400 -
300 -
200 -
100 -
0 -
GCCM ACI GCBCM GCBCS SSIG
508
101 90
365
106 96
208
108 105
12
1 2
148
13 9
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 69
For the year 2021, a breakdown of parental leave entitlement and utilisation between our and male and female employees
throughout the year is summarised in the following figures:
Figure 9. Utilization of Parental Leave by Male Employees (By Entity)
Figure 10. Utilization of Parental Leave by Female Employees (By Entity)
Total number of male employees who took parental leave
Total number of male employees entitled to parental leave
Total number of female employees who took parental leave
Total number of female employees entitled to parental leave
350 -
300 -
250 -
200 -
150 -
100 -
50 -
0 -
140 -
120 -
100 -
80 -
60 -
40 -
20 -
0 -
GCCM
GCCM
ACI
ACI
GCBCM
GCBCM
GCBCS
GCBCS
SSIG
SSIG
272
118
17
8
159
14
28
2
180
28
14
5
1
3
106
42
1
1
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
70 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Figure 11. Total Number of Employees That Returned to Work in The Reporting Period After Parental Leave
Ended (By Entity)
Figure 12. Return to Work Rate of Employees That Took Parental Leave (By Entity)
Male
Female
Male
Female
30 -
25 -
20 -
15 -
10 -
5 -
0 -
120% -
100% -
80% -
60% -
40% -
20% -
0% -
GCCM
GCCM
ACI
ACI
GCBCM
GCBCM
GCBCS
GCBCS
SSIG
SSIG
17
100%
8
100%
28
100%
2
100%
14
100%
4
80%
0
0%
0
0%
1
100%
1
100%
Note:
No employees from GCBCS utilised the parental leave during the reporting period as no employee were eligible for it.
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 71
In order to provide a comprehensive outlook to the abovementioned baseline year’s performance, we will pursue further
in assessing and disclosing our retention rate of employees who took parental leave (by the respective entities) upon 12
months after their return to work.
Figure 13. Rate of New Hires (Group)
35% -
30% -
25% -
20% -
15% -
10% -
5% -
0% -
2020 2021
29%
31%
Figure 14. Rate of Employee Turnover (Group)
35% -
30% -
25% -
20% -
15% -
10% -
5% -
0% -
2020 2021
27%
29%
Similar to the previous year, the group has increased hiring in 2021. This is a result of expansion plans and to make up
headcount for employee turnover. The expansion in headcount mainly came from ACI and GCBCM in 2021.
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
72 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
DRIVING CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH AND SAFETY OUTCOMES
Why It Matters
Occupational health and safety play an important role in ensuring the sustainability of our business. Apart from the basic
essential of maintaining a safe working environment and providing protective wear for our employees, ensuring that safety
is a priority means that our employees are able to focus on being productive, without having to worry about their wellbeing
at work. At GCB, we take proactive actions toward occupational health and safety as this allows us to position ourselves
as a practicable and progressive place to work, while easing the process of establishing operations in new jurisdictions. As
such, we are committed to going beyond the requirements of regulations alone and strive to stand as an example of best
practices in health and safety within our industry as a whole.
How We Approach It
A detailed and all-encompassing Safety and Health Policy governs the occupational health and safety procedures adopted
across the Group, outlining safety standards for daily operations in adherence to local regulations such as Occupational
Safety and Health Act 1994, Factories and Machineries Act 1977, Fire Services Act 1988 and the UU No. 1 Tahun 1970. In
implementing said standards, responsibility falls to the Health and Safety Committee and our safety officers, who work as
an extension of the committee on the ground within each of our subsidiaries. In striving to create inclusive and transparent
discussions around health and safety, the committee comprises a balanced representation of 50% management and 50%
workers, and includes representatives from all departments of the Group, including foreign workers. The committee meets
on a quarterly basis to discuss safety issues as well as to highlight any accidents and near-miss incidents for further
assessment, in line with the local requirements.
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 73
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Beyond this structure, it is equally important that employees
on the ground are given the resources and knowledge to
respond to health and safety threats. As such, emergency
response teams that include certified first aider and trained
fire fighters have been established at all subsidiaries.
Members within this response team are required to undergo
refresher training courses every two years to ensure that
their competencies remain in line with the requirements
of the industry and operations of the entities. Additionally,
all safety officers undergo regular training to ensure they
are updated of the latest developments in health and safety
practices and regulations.
As part of our effort in promoting the culture of health and
safety across our entire workforce, all employees undertake
yearly training programmes in health and safety, including
situational training that avails them of strategies to mitigate
against specific emergencies or accidents. In the case of
new employees, detailed health and safety briefings are
provided before access to our facilities is granted.
LeveragingontheseGroup-widepolicies,standardoperating
procedures have been developed and are continually
refined across our offices and production facilities. All
employees working in high-risk environments are provided
with personal protective equipment, which includes safety
helmets, safety shoes and ear plugs. A safety checklist is also
maintained to provide a step-by-step guide for employees
on the safety measures to implement during a specific
situation within our operation. Meanwhile, whiteboards are
located within all production facilities to track the ongoing
accident and incident rate at the facility in question,
encouraging employees to take greater responsibility in
ensuring safe working practices at all times.
Targeted procedures have also been implemented in the
vital area of fire hazard response. Among others, fire drills
are organised on an annual basis to ensure employees are
familiar with and internalise evacuation practices, firefighting
equipment (including fire extinguishers, water tanks, fire
hydrants and sprinklers) are located at strategic areas within
our production facilities and all premises have obtained Fire
Certificates issued by their relevant local government which
adequately represent that our firefighting measures are on
par and adequately maintained.
Lastly, we understand the importance of continuous review
and improvement in up keeping our health and safety
performance. All matters on occupational health and
safety is discussed in our monthly management meetings
in line with our monthly safety reporting requirements.
This is further complemented with the role of our internal
and external safety audits which enables us to identify
ways of improving our processes at all levels of the Group.
Our grievance mechanism also covers health and safety
in the workplace. Thus, providing all employees with an
anonymous channel through which they can raise concerns
in this area. Collectively, these measures mean that we are
well-equipped to avoid organisational complacency in this
critical area.
During FY2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to
present a major health threat to the Group. We kept to
the standard operating procedures that were devised to
minimise any potential risk of exposure faced by employees
working onsite. This included regular temperature checks,
compulsory use of face masks, the provision of sanitisers
and the implementation of cross-premise disinfection
exercises whenever necessary. We also encouraged
all employees to receive their vaccination, when the
opportunity was presented to them.
Our Performance
We aim to maintain a Group-wide accident rate of not
more than 20 cases per year, and to have 100% of our
employees trained on the latest occupational health and
safety practices. However, we have fallen short of the
stipulated goals, despite a reduction in overall number of
incidents.
Figure 15. Representation Within The Health and Safety
Committee*
Note:
* The abovementioned data is relevant to GCCM, ACI and GCBCM as
there is no dedicated Health and Safety Committee in GCBCS due
to its small scale of operations.
Employee
Representative
Management
Representative
50% 50%
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
74 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Subsidiary GCCM ACI GCBCM SSIG GCBCS Total
Indicator (Count) 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020^ 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021
Total number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 0 0 0 0
Total number of injuries 7 6 7 6 16 14 N/A 4 0 0 30 30
*Total number of
occupational disease
cases
0 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 0 0 0 0
*Total number of incidents
resulting in lost workdays
7 6 4 2 16 14 N/A 4 0 0 27 26
*Total number of lost
workdays
55 56 58 56 119 139 N/A 67 0 0 232 318
*Total number of missed
(absentee) days
2,226 2,492 1,071 1,150 837.5 1,277 N/A 3,712 4 2.5 4,138.58,633.5+
Figure 16. Total Cases Count as per Indicator by Subsidiary in Year 2020 and 2021
Subsidiary GCCM ACI GCBCM GCBCS
Indicator
Change in number of fatalities 0 0 0 0
Change in number of injuries -1 -1 -2 0
Change in number of occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0
Change in number of incidents resulting in lost workdays -1 -2 -2 0
Change in number of lost workdays 1 -2 20 0
Change in average missed (absentee) days/headcount 1 0# 2 0#
Figure 17. Tabulated Change in Number of Cases as per Indicator by Subsidiary
In the FY2021, we observed a decrease in the total number of incidents resulting in lost workdays across the group. Upon
enquiry from GCBCM, we found that the increase of lost workdays in contrast to lower number of accidents occurred due
to instances of improper housekeeping and lack of usage for personal protective equipment. Moving forward, we will look
into increasing the frequency of checks for compliance within each operation. The facility will improve its risk management
measures by regularly inspecting and maintaining the equipment based on the manufacturer’s recommendations and
focus on developing the safety awareness of all employees through enhanced safety training.
Note:
^ No comparison recorded for SSIG as reporting of data was only started in 2021.
* Total number of occupational disease cases = The number of cases resulting from disease contracted primarily as a result of an exposure to risk
factors arising from work activity.
* Total number of incidents resulted in lost workdays = The number of cases that contained lost workdays (each incident only counts as one for
the purposes of this calculation, no matter how many days of work were missed as a result).
* Total number of missed (absentee) days = The number of days where worker absent from work because of incapacity of any kind, but not as the
result of work-related injury.
+ The increase in the number of missed days recorded in 2021 is attributed to the ongoing pandemic as significant number of employees were
unwell due to the side effects of vaccination, resulting in an average increase of 1 missed day per headcount across the group in 2021.
# Change is negligible (-0.2)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 75
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
ADDITIONAL FEATURED SECTION
GCB’S EMERGING SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS
Alongside priority topics that we have chosen to focus our main sustainability disclosures on this year, we have committed
a considerable amount of time and efforts in building other areas of sustainability to forge a more purposeful future.
These areas, also known as emerging topics, are equally as important as our priority topics. This is because they are the
sustainability topics in which we are making early provisions to be able to contribute or make a more positive impact on
the stakeholders and its surrounding environment in the foreseeable future in addition to their current efforts.
While the five topics are developing, we have begun initiatives to bolster these in the hope of enhancing our sustainability
journey. The table below further summarises the Group’s activities and achievement for FY2021.
EMERGING TOPICS INITIATIVES & PERFORMANCE
Procurement
Practices
• Established a group-wide commitment towards 100% traceable and sustainable
cocoa ingredients by 2030.
• Joined the International Cocoa Initiative (ICI), reaffirming our commitment to
prevent and address child labour and forced labour in cocoa-growing areas.
• Adopted strict sustainable procurement policy and procedures based on
international standards and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and
conventions.
Training and
Education
• Utilisation of the Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF) to support the
Group’s efforts for employee’s training and development.
• Provision of trainings covering a wide range of topics for employees across various
departments and allowing employees to expand their horizons beyond their existing
focus at work to explore new areas of interest and ensuring utmost employee care.
• Some of the trainings participated by our employees in 2021 include:
- Enterprise Risk Management Course
- Food Handlers Course
- Safe Forklift/Stacker Handling Course
- Basic Occupational First Aid, CPR & AED Training
Non-Discrimination • Commitment to ensure non-discrimination and equal opportunities in the
workplace, which is enshrined in our group’s Code of Conduct.
• Promotion of diversity in the workplace by ensuring diversity in our career advance
and hiring practices in building a strong culture of inclusivity, opportunity, non-
discrimination and fairness throughout our group.
• Establishment of grievances procedures and whistleblowing policy that provides
any parties with the necessary platform to report on conduct/ issues remotely
related to non-discrimination for the actions of the management.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
76 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
EMERGING TOPICS INITIATIVES & PERFORMANCE
Local
Communities
• Caring Beyond Cocoa programme which has led to other CSR initiatives and
achievements in 2021, as below:
- Beach Clean-up at the coast of Sembawang Park in Singapore, to restore its
native habitat and reduce plastic pollution.
- Supporting Orphanages
o Provided five sets of desktops to Grace Covenant Community Care, Johor,
Malaysia;
o Gave Duit Raya (includes AEON vouchers and cash) to Persatuan Kebajikan
Darul Hanan, Johor, Malaysia;
o In collaboration with Canon, GCB donated a photocopier machine to
Guru Shree Raghavendra Charity, Johor, Malaysia, to support home-based
learning during the pandemic. In addition, a monetary donation of RM7,200
for minor renovation works and hand dryer installation to improve the home
facilities;
o Donation made to Singapore Children’s Society; and
o Donation made to Malaysian Medical Relief Society (MERCY Malaysia), Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, under a food relief program.
- Fruit Day – Distributed 37,600 units of fruits and milk to employees in Malaysia
to promote and encourage healthy eating habits at work.
- COVID-19 package – Distributed 1,126 care packages filled with items such as
masks and vitamins across all 7 subsidiaries.
- Partnered with insurance company Leadway to provide life insurance for farmers
in our direct sourcing network, increasing their level of security and resilience in
times of acute crisis such as accident, illness or death.
Customer
Safety & Health
• Adoption of international quality control and food safety standards, such as FSSC,
IFS, GMP, HACCP, ISO 9001, Halal and Kosher certifications.
• Active role of the research and development team in constantly exploring and
integrating best manufacturing standards that maintain and improve the quality of
our products.
• Commitment to ensure that every product delivered to customers meet stringent
safety and quality control standards.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 77
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
GOOD COCOA & BEYOND
GCB’S COCOA SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Why It Matters
At GCB, we are committed to making a conscious and concerted effort to embrace cocoa sustainability, partnering with
stakeholders in the whole cocoa supply chain to secure the future supply of cocoa and ensure a thriving, sustainable cocoa
sector. Our cocoa sustainability programme, “Good Cocoa & Beyond” reflects this commitment and places sustainability
at the core of what we do.
How We Approach It
Our efforts are guided by four strategic pillars, which address the fundamental economic, social and environmental
challenges to cocoa sustainability.
We aim to achieve our goals by working in partnership with suppliers and customers, participating in industry-wide
sustainability initiatives, and implementing direct origin sustainability programming.
Strategic Pillar 1
Improving Farmer Income
In order to achieve sustainable cocoa production, the interconnected issues of
low cocoa yields and low incomes must be addressed. Our programme aims to
achieve this by building farmer capacities to adopt Good Agricultural Practices
(GAPs) and strengthening farm management. Farmers providing sustainable
cocoa are also paid premiums.
Strategic Pillar 2
Benefitting Farmers & their Communities
Only when cocoa-growing communities thrive, can cocoa be sustainable.
Therefore, our programme also supports farmers and their communities to
address the social challenges they face and foster community development. This
includes reducing and eventually eliminating child labour, promoting women’s
empowerment and improving infrastructure and access to services.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
78 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
Note:
* Traceable cocoa: Cocoa beans that can be traced up to farm level
^ Direct cocoa bean sourcing network refers to the full visibility of supply chain all through to farm-level. This implies that we are able to trace the
flow of beans down to the farm-level, which provides the potential for segregation or identity preservation through to end-product.
A direct cocoa supply chain also has documentation of and sharing of records of farmer members, which includes GPS farm locations, polygon
boundary mapping etc
** Traceable and Sustainable cocoa: Cocoa that is produced according to internationally recognised sustainability standards which include
traceability with location mapping and addressing child labour and deforestation concerns
As we continue our sustainability journey, GCB hopes to achieve, by 2025, 100% traceable* cocoa from our direct cocoa bean
sourcing network^ and, by 2030, 100% traceable and sustainable** cocoa from our direct cocoa bean sourcing network by 2030.
This is overseen by the Group’s Cocoa Sustainability Committee, which brings together colleagues across all business areas,
to keep our objectives and goals relevant, and to fully integrate these across our activities. The committee structure is as
reflected below and is aimed to keep the organisation and our supply chain accountable at every step of the journey.
Chairman
Promotion &
Communication
Origin
Operation
Customer Care &
Service
Quality
Assurance
Certification
Assurance
Strategic Pillar 3
Protecting the Environment
For sustainable cocoa production as well as for the health of our planet, we
must protect and preserve natural resources. As a signatory of the Cocoa and
Forests Initiative (CFI), we aim to prevent sourcing from deforested areas through
farm mapping, deforestation risk assessments and farm-level traceability. These
initiatives are complemented by training on GAPs as well as forest protection and
agroforestry, which prevent and mitigate negative environmental impacts and
increase environmental stewardship.
Strategic Pillar 4
Providing Responsible Cocoa
Responsible cocoa results from a sustainable cocoa supply chain, from the production
of beans to customers. By improving farmer incomes, benefitting farmers and their
communities and protecting the environment, we will provide 100% responsible and
sustainable cocoa by 2030. Through the use of Digital Management and Traceability
Systems we hope to enable full traceability and transparency of supply chain,
sustainability activities and premium payments. Third-party audit and certification will
provide an independent guarantee that sustainability standards are met.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 79
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standards Disclosures
Page Number(s)
and/ or Remark(s)
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 47
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 11 -13
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 8
GRI 102-4 Location of operations 13
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 222 - 224
GRI 102-6 Markets served 32
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 68
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 68
GRI 102-9 Supply chain 48 & 75
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to organisation and its supply chain 48 & 75
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 82 - 93
GRI 102-12 External initiatives 49 - 50, 75 - 78
GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 48
STRATEGY
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 49 - 50
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 53
GOVERNANCE
GRI 102-18 Governance structure 51 - 52
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 54
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not applicable for
the entities included
in the scope of this
report
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 54
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 54
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 54
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
80 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
GRI Standards Disclosures
Page Number(s)
and/ or Remark(s)
REPORTING PRACTICE
GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10, 161 - 165
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 47
GRI 102-47 List of material topics 55 - 56
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information No restatement of
information
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 48
GRI 102-50 Reporting period 47
GRI 102-51 Date of the most recent report 47
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 47
GRI 102-53 Contact point of questions regarding the report 48
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 47
GRI 102-55 GRI content index 79 - 81
GRI 102-56 External assurance The review was
performed by the
internal team and
approved by the
Board.
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57
GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 57
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 57
TOPIC: MARKET PRESENCE
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 58
GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 58
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58
GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum
wage
58
TOPIC: ENERGY
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 59 - 62
GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 59 - 62
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 59 - 62
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 60
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 59
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 81
Sustainability Report (Cont’d)
GRI Standards Disclosures
Page Number(s)
and/ or Remark(s)
TOPIC: WASTE
GRI 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 63 - 65
GRI 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 63
GRI 306-3 Waste generated 64 - 65
TOPIC: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 66
GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 66
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66
GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 66
TOPIC: EMPLOYMENT
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 67 - 71
GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 67 - 71
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67 - 71
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 68
GRI 401-3 Parental leave 69 - 70
TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 72 - 74
GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 74
GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 72 - 74
GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational
health and safety
72 - 74
GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 72 - 73
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 72 - 74
GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly
linked by business relationships
46, 72 - 73
GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 72 - 74
GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 74
GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health 74
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
82 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) recognises the importance of good
corporate governance in ensuring that the interest of the Company, shareholders and other
stakeholders are protected. The Board is committed to the establishment and implementation
of a proper framework for governance and controls that are consistent with the principles
recommended in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) and other
applicable laws, regulations, directives and guidelines.
This corporate governance overview statement (“Statement”) sets out the adoption and practices of the principles as set
out in the MCCG and the relevant chapters of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on corporate governance.
The manner in and the extent in which the corporate governance framework is applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2021 is summarised as follows:
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
Principal Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
The Board directs the risk assessment, strategic planning, resource allocation, succession planning and financial
and operational management of the Company and each of its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”
or “GCB Group”) to ensure that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met. The
Board provides the leadership necessary to enable the Group’s business objectives to be met within the framework
of internal controls described in this Statement.
The Board, together with the Senior Management, takes responsibility for the governance of sustainability in the Group
in accordance to Practices 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 in the MCCG. The Board takes into account sustainability considerations
when developing and implementing company strategies, business plans, major plans of action and risk management.
The Board ensures that it constantly stays abreast with sustainability issues relevant to the company and its business
and that sustainability initiatives undertaken by the Group are effectively communicated to stakeholders.
As set out in the MCCG’s Practice 1.2, the Board is led by a Chairman, who is responsible for:
- Representing the Board to shareholders and ensuring effective communication with shareholders;
- Ensuring effective operation of the Board and its committees in conformity with the highest standards of
corporate governance;
- Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision-
making;
- Ensuring that all Board committees are properly established, composed and operated;
- Ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new Directors and updates for all Directors as and when
necessary; and
- Supporting the Chief Executive Officer and establishing a harmonious and open relationship with the Chief
Executive Officer.
The Board is supported by a suitably qualified and competent Company Secretary, who provides sound governance
advice, ensures adherence to rules and procedures and advocates the adoption of corporate governance best
practices, in compliance to the MCCG’s Practice 1.5.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 83
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Principal Responsibilities of the Board of Directors (Cont’d)
To assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has established four (4) Board Committees, namely the
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Risk Management Committee,
to which it has delegated certain responsibilities. The Board Committees have their roles and functions, written terms
of reference, operating procedures and authority to examine specific issues within their respective terms of reference
as approved by the Board and report to the Board with their recommendations. All deliberations and decisions taken
by the Board Committees are documented and approved by the respective Chairman of the Board Committees prior
submission to the Board for deliberations and decisions. The ultimate responsibility for decision making, however,
still lies with the Board. The Board reviews the Board Committees’ authority and terms of reference from time to time
to ensure their relevance.
The Board is guided by the Board Charter, which clearly identifies the respective roles and responsibilities of the
Board, Board Committees, individual Directors and Senior Management, and issues and decisions reserved for the
Board in compliance to the MCCG’s Practice 2.1. The Board establishes the Business Ethics Policy & Code of Conduct
and Whistleblower Procedure that aim to promote good business conduct and maintain a healthy corporate culture
which engenders integrity, transparency and fairness in compliance to Practices 3.1 and 3.2 in the MCCG. Details
of the Board Charter, Business Ethics Policy & Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Procedure can be found on the
Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com.
Clear roles and responsibilities
The Board has a collective responsibility for the management of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors are
responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board and providing objective
challenges to Management.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not engage
in any business dealing or other relationship with the Group to ensure that they are capable of exercising judgment
objectively and act in the best interest of the Group, its stakeholders and shareholders, including minority shareholders.
Instead, the day-to-day business operations of the Group are led by the Chief Executive Officer. The positions of
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals in accordance to the MCCG’s Practice
1.3. To enhance accountability, the Board has specific functions reserved for the Board and those delegated to the
Management. There is a schedule of key matters reserved to the Board for its deliberation and decision to ensure the
direction and control of the Group are in its hands.
Key matters reserved to the Board for decision that were discussed in the financial year ended 31 December 2021
comprise the following:
- declaration of dividends and approval of financial statements, including accounting policies of the Group;
- establishment of new company;
- annual strategic plan;
- capital investment and disposal of tangible assets from existing business to third party;
- increase by a subsidiary of its issued capital;
- financing on the Group’s activities;
- strategy and business plans of the Company and its subsidiaries and of any subsequent material changes in
strategic direction or material deviations in business plans by the Company and its subsidiaries;
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
84 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Clear roles and responsibilities (Cont’d)
Key matters reserved to the Board for decision that were discussed in the financial year ended 31 December 2021
comprise the following: (Cont’d)
- material acquisitions and disposal of assets not in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its
subsidiaries;
- change relating to the capital structure, including but not limited to, reduction of capital, share and other
securities issues (except under employee share option schemes) and share buy-backs (including the use of
treasury shares) (including the terms and conditions of such changes in capital structure) of the Company and
its subsidiaries;
- raise or increase borrowing facilities involving material amounts of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries, following
recommendations from the Nominating Committee;
- any delegation of authorities to Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors of the Company and its
subsidiaries;
- risk management policies of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- establishment of Board Committees of the Company and its subsidiaries (to the extent applicable), their
membership, delegated duties and authorities and the terms of reference; and
- remunerations payable in relation to the contract of employment of the Director of the Company and its
subsidiaries.
Board Meetings and Supply of Information
A total of five (5) Board Meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2021. Board meetings are held
separately from Board Committee Meetings. The details of attendance of each Board Member are as follows:
Name of Directors Attendance
Tay Hoe Lian 5/5
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 5/5
Hia Cheng 5/5
Tan Ah Lai 5/5
Ang Nyee Nyee 5/5
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir 5/5
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md. Jamil
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)
2/2
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)
2/2
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 85
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Board Meetings and Supply of Information (Cont’d)
The Company Secretary ensures a balanced flow of information is disseminated so that the Board and the Board
Committees receive timely and up-to-date information for an effective discharge of the Board’s responsibilities and
for decisions to be made on an informed basis. The Board firmly believes that effective deliberation and its decision
making process are highly dependent on the quality of information furnished by the Management.
Where any direction or decisions are required expeditiously or urgently for the Board between the regular meetings,
special meetings of the Board are convened by the Company Secretary, after consultation with the Chairman. The
agenda for the meeting of the Board is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and the
Chief Executive Officer.
Decisions of the Board are made unanimously or by consensus. Where appropriate, decisions may be taken by way
of Directors’ Circular Resolutions between scheduled and special meetings.
The Board Meeting’s proceedings follow Practice 1.6 as set out in the MCCG. A formal and structured agenda,
together with a set of Board and Board Committees papers, are forwarded to all Directors at least seven (7) days
prior to the Board and Board Committees meetings, to enable the Board to make decisions and for Directors to
be prepared to deal with matters arising from such meetings. The Board has a regular schedule of matters which
are typically on the agenda and reviewed during the course of the year, namely, presentation on quarterly reports;
the quarterly unaudited consolidated results; recommendations of the various Board Committees; announcements
to Bursa Securities; the Company’s audited financial statements; the Company’s annual report which includes
Sustainability Statement, this Statement, Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control, Audit Committee
Report, Risk Management Report and Statement of Directors’ responsibilities. Presentations to the Board and the
Board Committees are prepared and delivered in a manner that ensures a clear and adequate understanding of the
subject matter. In addition, reading materials on the subject matter are prepared and circulated prior to each meeting
to assist Directors in having an understanding of the subject matter. Members of the Management team are invited, as
and when required, to attend Board and Board Committees meetings to provide additional insights and professional
views, advice and explanations on specific items on the meeting agenda. All pertinent issues discussed at Board
meetings in arriving at the decisions and conclusions are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by way of
minutes of meetings and circulated to Board of Directors accordingly.
It is the policy of the Company for Directors to devote sufficient time and efforts to carry out their responsibilities.
The Board obtains this commitment from Directors at the time of their appointment. Furthermore, in ensuring time
commitment of Directors, meeting dates are made known to the Directors prior to the beginning of a new financial
year. Directors are also required to notify the Board before accepting any new directorship.
II. Board Composition
The Composition of the Board
The Board, through the Nomination Committee, ensures that the composition of the Board is refreshed periodically.
The tenure of each Director is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and annual re-election of a Director is
contingent on satisfactory evaluation of the Director’s performance and contribution to the Board, in accordance to
Practice 5.1 as set out in the MCCG.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
86 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
The Composition of the Board (Cont’d)
The Board consists of six (6) members, comprising three (3) Executive Directors including the Managing Director/Chief
Executive Officer and three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. Presently, two (2) out of six (6) members of the
Board are women Directors, making the total female representation on the Board of 33%. The Board members provide
an effective Board with a mix of industry-specific knowledge and broad business, financial, regulatory and technical
experience. Furthermore, there is effective check and balance on the Board, with half (1/2) of the Board members
being Independent Non-Executive Directors. Based on the independence assessment conducted by the Board, the
Board believes that the existing Independent Directors are able to continue bringing in their independent objective and
judgement during the Board and Board Committee’s proceedings. As a large company, the Group is actively searching
for candidates for Independent Directors and making gradual progression to comply with Practice 5.2 in the MCCG.
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan has resigned as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company w.e.f 15
April 2021. A brief description of the background of each Director is presented in the Directors’ Profile on pages 20 to
23 of this Annual Report.
Independence of the Board
The Independent Directors provide the necessary independent perspective and rigour in the formulation of strategies,
deliberation of issues and implementation of major undertakings to ensure that the interest of not only the Group,
but also stakeholders and the public in general are represented. The Board, through the Nomination Committee
reviewed and was satisfied that all such Directors had satisfied the criteria for an Independent Director as prescribed
in the Listing Requirements and Practice Note 13. This mixture of experience and expertise is deemed necessary in
light of the increasing challenging economic and operating environment in which the Group operates.
The MCCG’s Practice 5.3 provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on the tenure of an Independent
Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve the Board upon reaching the nine (9) years limit
subject to the Independent Director’s re-designation as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. In the event
the Board intends to retain the Director as Independent Director after the latter has served a cumulative term of nine
(9) years, the Board must justify the decision and seek shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process. In
justifying the decision, the Nomination Committee is entrusted to assess the candidate’s suitability to continue as an
Independent Non-Executive Director based on the criteria and definition of an Independent Director as set out under
Paragraph 1.01 of Listing Requirements on independence and recommend to the Board for its consideration.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the identification
of the desired mix of expertise, competencies and experiences for an effective Board and the assessment of the
performance of the members of the Board. As and when the need arises, the Nomination Committee shall also
identify and recommend candidates with the necessary qualities to strengthen the Board.
The Nomination Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Ang Nyee Nyee, and
comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Nomination Committee operates under its
terms of reference, which has been approved by the Board.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 87
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
Nomination Committee (Cont’d)
In compliance with Practices 5.6 and 5.7 in the MCCG, the Committee considers independent sources and
recommendations from existing Board members, Management and major shareholders when identifying candidates
for appointment of Directors. The Committee ensures that shareholders have the information they require to make
an informed decision on the appointment and reappointment of the Directors.
On appointment of new Directors, the Management would facilitate the Directors’ induction by providing the Directors
with relevant information about the Group and encouraging them to visit the sites of the Group’s operating units and
meet with key senior executives. The Nomination Committee will also ensure that orientation programme is provided
for new members of the Board and is also tasked to review the Directors’ continuing education programmes.
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, all Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to election
by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The Constitution also provides that at least one
third (1/3) of the remaining Directors be subject to re-election by rotation at each Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once every three (3) years but shall be eligible for
re-election.
The Nomination Committee has access to any form of independent professional advice, information and the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, if and when required, in carrying out its functions. Directors seeking re-
election and re-appointment abstain from all deliberations regarding his/her re-election and re-appointment to
the Board and/or Board Committees. The Nomination Committee meets at least once in a financial year or more
frequent if needed.
The Nomination Committee had one (1) meeting during the financial year ended 31 December 2021, which was
attended by all members. The activities carried out by the Nomination Committee during the financial year under
review were as follows:
• Assessed and reviewed the boardroom diversity in respect of the desired mix of skills, competencies and
experience of the Board, including the core competencies which Non-Executive Directors should bring to the
Board as encouraged by Bursa Securities and Practices 5.9 of the MCCG;
• Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the Board, the Board Committees and individual Directors, and
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments to the structure, size and composition
that are deemed necessary in accordance to Practice 6.1 of the MCCG;
• Developed the Board action plan for improvement on areas identified in the Boards effectiveness evaluation,
where application; and
• Reviewed the Directors’ continuing education programmes.
Directors’ Training
Under the Listing Requirements, the Nomination Committee has assumed the onus of determining or overseeing the
training needs of the Directors. All the Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, all Directors have attended relevant courses and training
programmes to enhance their knowledge to effectively discharge their duties and obligations.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
88 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
The courses and training programmes attended by the Directors are as follows:
Name of Director Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Tan Ah Lai Audit Committee Conference 2021
2022 Budget Seminar
Workshop on Malaysian Property Tax, Estates and Trusts
Workshop on Tax Incentives
Tay Hoe Lian Leading with an Infinite Mindset
Cultivating a Positive Organizational Culture in Remote Working Environment
Present & Post Covid Syndrome Treatment
Global, Regional & Malaysia Economic Updates
Post Pandemic Sales and Marketing Strategies
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick Related Party Transaction
Hia Cheng Withholding Taxes – Law and Implications on Cross Border Transactions
Managing Cross Border Transaction
Sustainable Finance & ESG for Value Creation
2022 Budget Seminar
Enterprise Risk Management Training
Ang Nyee Nyee Mandatory Accreditation Programme for Directors of Public Listed
Companies
Malaysian Probate Systems: Sabah, Sarawak and Peninsular Perspective
Climate Change, Reporting and Sustainability Trends: The Inter-Links
Towards Addressing Sustainable Development Goals and Climate Change
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir A Caring Blueprint for a Better Corporate Malaysia
Securities Commission Guidelines on the Conduct of Directors of Listed
Corporations and their Subsidiaries
The Directors are mindful that they shall continue to undergo the relevant training programmes in order to stay
abreast with the latest developments in the industry and to better enable them to fulfill their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary and external auditors have also regularly updated the Directors on the latest relevant
regulatory requirements and accounting standards to enable them to keep abreast with such developments and
amendments.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 89
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the development and
review of the remuneration policy and packages for the Board members.
The Remuneration Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Nurulhuda Binti Abd
Kadir, and comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee operates
under its terms of reference, which has been approved by the Board.
The Committee has in place policies and procedures to determine the remuneration of Directors, which takes into
account the demands, complexities and performance of the company as well as skills and experience required. The
remuneration policy is reviewed from time to time to ensure the remuneration of Directors is on par with other
publicly listed companies. In compliance with Practices 7.1 and 7.2 in the MCCG, the Committee has updated the
remuneration policy to include the remuneration of Senior Management for the financial year ending 31 December
2022.
The Remuneration Committee had one (1) meeting during the financial year ended 31 December 2021, which was
attended by all members. The activities carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the financial year under
review were as follows:
- Reviewed and recommended to the Board the remuneration packages for Executive Directors based on the
outcome of performance review;
- Determined the remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality
required to manage the business of the Group successfully;
- Ensured the remuneration and incentives for Independent Directors does not conflict with their obligation in
bringing objectivity and independent judgment on matters discussed;
- Reviewed the Group’s compensation policy for the Executive Directors and ensure alignment of compensation
to corporate performance, and compensation offered in line with market practice; and
- Approved the annual salary increment of the Executive Directors in respect of each financial year.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
90 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)
Directors’ Remuneration
The details of Directors’ remuneration payable to the Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 are as follows:
Group (RM’000) Company (RM’000)
Fees
Salaries &
Allowances Bonuses
Performance
Incentive
EPF &
SOCSO
Benefits-
in-kind Fees
Salaries &
Allowances Bonuses
EPF &
SOCSO
Benefits-
in-kind
Executive Directors
Tay Hoe Lian 180 1,840 3,754 3,071 309 16 - - - - -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 180 1,006 1,905 - 42 17 - - - -
Hia Cheng 180 1,905 3,038 2,485 231 77 - - - - -
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad
Musa bin Md. Jamil
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April
2021)
- - - - - - 18 - - - -
Independent Non-Executive Directors
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay
Chuan (Resigned w.e.f
15 April 2021)
- - - - - - 36 - - - -
Tan Ah Lai - - - - - - 63 4 - - -
Ang Nyee Nyee - - - - - - 64 1 - - -
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir - - - - - - 45 1 - - -
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 91
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)
Key Senior Management’s Remuneration
The details of Key Senior Management’s remuneration in successive band of RM50,000 for the financial year ended
31 December 2021 are as follows:
Band Number of Key Senior Management
RM700,001 – RM750,000 1
RM1,200,001 – RM1,250,000 1
RM2,800,001 – RM2,850,000 1
RM3,400,001 – RM3,450,000 1
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit Committee
Uphold Integrity in Financial Reporting by Company
The Board has established an Audit Committee which is tasked to oversee matters relating to financial reporting,
auditing, internal controls, related party transactions, conflicts of interest situation and assessment carried out on the
independence, performance and objectivity of the external auditors and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. The requirements for the Audit
Committee to consist of at least three (3) members, all of whom shall be Non-Executive with majority being
Independent Directors and the requirement for the Audit Committee’s Chairman to be an Independent Director are
articulated in the Audit Committee’s Terms of Reference.
The Audit Committee brings to the Board an independent and objective approach that safeguards the integrity of the
Company’s financial reporting, which includes ensuring the independence and quality of audit activities which are
important in providing necessary assurance to the Audit Committee in forming its basis for recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee activities and oversights of external and internal auditors are detailed in the Audit Committee
Report and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control.
The Board aims to provide and present a clear, balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Group’s financial
performance and prospects at the end of the financial year, primarily through the annual financial statements and
quarterly announcement of results to shareholders, as well as the interview with the Managing Director/Chief
Executive Officer and review of the Group’s operations in this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Group and the Company as at the end of the reporting period and of their results and cash flows
for the period then ended. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensure that accounting standards
approved by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
are complied with and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made. The Directors’ overall
responsibilities also include taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group
and for the implementation and continued operation of adequate accounting and internal control systems for the
prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
Group’s position and prospects in the Directors’ Report and the Financial Statements set out in this Annual Report.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
92 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
Recognise and Manage Risk of the Group
The Board recognises its responsibility over the principal risks of various aspects in the Group’s business.
The Board and Management are mindful of measures required to identify risks residing in any major proposed
transactions, changes in nature of activities and/or operating environment, or venturing into new operating
environment.
The responsibilities of identifying and managing risks are delegated to the respective Head of each business units.
A Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board by taking the responsibility of monitoring the
effectiveness of the Group’s approach on risk management which function was previously delegated to the Audit
Committee. The composition and details of activities carried out by the Risk Management Committee are set out in
the Risk Management Committee Report of this Annual Report.
The key features of the risk management and internal controls are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control as stated on pages 94 to 99 of this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
Ensure Timely and High Quality Disclosure
An essential aspect of an active and constructive communication policy is the promptness in disseminating
information to shareholders and investors. The Board is aware of the need to establish corporate disclosure policies
and procedures to enable comprehensive, accurate and timely disclosures pertaining to the Group to the regulators,
shareholders and stakeholders of the Company.
The Company acknowledges the need for investors to be informed of all material business and corporate
developments affecting the Group.
The timely release of quarterly results of the Group and the issue of the Company’s Annual Reports provide regular
information on the state of affairs of the Group. These, together with the announcements to Bursa Securities, circulars
to shareholders and, where appropriate, ad-hoc press statements and interviews are the principal channels for
dissemination of information by the Company to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally. This information
is also accessible by the public through the Bursa Securities’ website at www.bursamalaysia.com.
In addition, the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com provides information on the Group’s business, corporate
development and announcements to Bursa Securities. Other information relevant to shareholders and investors
such as Annual Reports, circulars to shareholders and quarterly reports are available for download at the Company’s
website.
Promoting Sustainability
The Company manages its business responsibly by managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of
its operations. The Company produces the annual report, which highlights the financial aspects of the business and
provides a clear, comprehensive and transparent representation of the Company’s performance annually.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 93
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
II. Conduct of General Meetings
Annual Report and General Meetings
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining transparency and accountability to its shareholders. The
Board ensures that all the Company’s shareholders are treated equitably and the rights of all investors, including
minority shareholders, are protected. The Board provides its shareholders and investors with information on
its business, financials and other key activities in this Annual Report and the contents of which are continuously
enhanced to take into account the developments, amongst others, in corporate governance.
The conduct of the meeting follows Practices 13.1, 13.2, 13.3, 13.4, 13.5 and 13.6 of the MCCG. Notice for the general
meetings is given to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting. The Board is cognisant of the advantages of
poll voting at general meetings to ensure accurate, transparency and efficiency of the voting process and outcomes
at general meetings. All the resolutions tabled at the general meetings are voted by poll. All Directors attended the
17th Annual General Meeting held on 31 May 2021. Technology was leveraged during the meeting in order to be
accessible to all shareholders and to support a meaningful engagement between the Board, Senior Management
and shareholders. Minutes of the general meetings are also circulated to shareholders within 30 business days of the
meeting.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board is pleased to report that this Statement together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which is
available on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com provides the corporate governance practices of the Company
with reference to the MCCG. The Board considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the
broad Principles as set out in the MCCG. However, the Board has reserved several of the Practices and has rationalized
and provided justifications for the deviations in the CG Report. Nevertheless, the Company will continue to strengthen its
governance practices to safeguard the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
This Statement was presented and approved at the meeting of the Board on 5 April 2022.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
94 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
INTRODUCTION
Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Listing Requirements requires the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of any given Listed Issuer
to include in its annual report a Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. The Board is pleased to provide
the following statement that is prepared in accordance with the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control:
Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Guidelines”) endorsed by Bursa Malaysia which outlines the nature and
scope of the risk management and internal controls of the Group during the financial year under review until the date of
approval.
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of internal controls and risk management practices within the
Group to meet its business objectives. The Board affirms its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal
controls and effective risk management, and for reviewing the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of these systems
to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. It covers not only financial controls but operational and
compliance controls, and risk management.
However, such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement, losses or fraud. These systems were designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives of the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
In dealing with its stewardship responsibilities, the Board recognises that an effective risk management is part of good
business management practice. The Board acknowledges that all areas of the Group’s activities involve some degree of risk
and is committed to ensuring that the Group has an effective risk management framework which will allow the Group to
be able to identify, evaluate, monitor and manage risks continuously that affect the achievement of the Group’s business
objectives.
This process is annually reviewed by the Board. It is intended that any key risk or significant control failings or weaknesses
shall be identified and discussed in these reports including the impact they have had or may have on the Group and the
actions to rectify them.
The key elements of the Group’s Risk Management Framework are described below:
• Structure
The Group adopts a decentralised approach to risk management which comprises strategic and operational risks
(including financial and compliance risks).
Type of Risks Accountability
Strategic risk The Board, Group Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Group Chief Financial
Officer(“CFO”) and Group Chief Operating Officer (“COO”)
Operational risk (including
financial and compliance risks)
Senior Management and Head of Department
› Strategic risks are risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group, but have a significant impact
on its strategic decisions or activities. Accountability for managing strategic risks therefore rests with the Board,
Group CEO and Group CFO. The benefit of effectively managing strategic risks is that the Group can better
forecast and quickly adapt to the changing demands that are placed upon the Group. It also means that the
Group is less likely to be affected by some external event that calls for significant change.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 95
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Cont’d)
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
• Structure (Cont’d)
› Operational risks, including financial and compliance risks are inherent in the ongoing activities within the
different subsidiaries of the Group. Typically, some of the risks cover foreign exchange, credit, competency,
technology, etc. Senior management needs ongoing assurance that these operational risks are identified
and managed. Accountability for managing operational risks rests specifically with the respective Heads of
Department.
• Risk Awareness Culture
Risk awareness culture is reflected by the emphasis on strong corporate governance, organisational structure
with clearly defined roles and responsibilities, effective communication and training, commitment to compliance
with laws, regulations and internal controls, integrity in fiduciary responsibilities and clear policies, procedures and
guidelines.
• Risk Assessment
Senior Management identifies and assesses risks from time-to-time based on business nature and objective. Senior
Management reports quarterly to the Board for any significant risk identified or control failure.
• Risk Appetite
The Group’s risk appetite defines the amount and types of risk that the Group is able and willing to accept in pursuit
of its business objectives. It also reflects the level of risk tolerance and limits set to govern, manage and control the
Group’s risk taking activities.
A clear Limit of Authority has been formalised to approve transactions to ensure that they are within the risk appetite
of the Group.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key elements of the Group’s internal control system are described below:
• Control Environment
The importance of a proper control environment is emphasised throughout the organisation. Focus is directed
towards the quality and abilities of the Group’s employees with continuing education and training to enhance the skills
of employees and reinforce qualities of professionalism and integrity. Such training also includes internal briefings
and external seminars for selected employees to enhance the level of awareness and knowledge on matters relating
to risk management and internal controls.
• Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct is the cornerstone of setting the proper tone at the top for the business’s culture. The Board and
management have formalised it as the standard of expected ethical behaviour for the all employees. It spells out
about workplace safety and health, bribery, equal opportunities, workplace environment, etc.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
96 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Cont’d)
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Organisational Structure
The Group operates on a hierarchical organisation structure that defines the authority limits, lines of responsibility
and reporting mechanism. All Subsidiaries have clear accountabilities to ensure appropriate control procedures are
in place.
The key elements of the Group’s organisational structure are as follows:
› Management
o Policy and Procedures: Management has implemented series of documented Policy and Procedures to
govern the Group’s key business processes. These policies and procedures deal with, amongst others,
control issues for procurement, credit control, warehousing, information technology, health and safety,
etc. These procedures are reviewed annually by senior management to ensure its relevancy.
o Human Capital: There are guidelines within the Group for hiring and termination of staff, formal training
programmes for staff and annual performance appraisals to enhance the level of staff competency in
carrying out their duties and responsibilities.
o Safeguarding of Assets: Adequate insurance and physical safeguarding of major assets are in place to
ensure that they are sufficiently covered against any mishap that may result in material losses to the
Group.
o Related Party Transactions: Internal control procedures are established to ensure that related party
transactions are undertaken in compliance with the Group’s practices, the Listing Requirements, and to
ensure that these transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms,
which are in the best interest of the Group’s stakeholders.
o Communication: Information is communicated through circulars, emails, meetings and internal memos.
o Site Visit: Annual visits by the head office personnel to business units in remote location to ascertain
compliance with the established Policy and Procedures of the Group by local management.
o Management Meetings: Quarterly meetings with the Heads of Departments provide a sound platform
for the information communicate with, and provide feedback to and from, Management.
› Internal Audit
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional service provider (the
“Internal Auditors”) which carries out its functions independently with risk-based approach and provides
the Audit Committee and the Board with the assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of
internal controls. The cost of internal audit function for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 was about
RM24,000.
Any significant control lapses and/or deficiencies noted from the reviews will be documented and communicated
to management for review and corrective actions. The Internal Auditors report to the Audit Committee all
significant non-compliance, internal control weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve the
audit issues identified.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 97
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Cont’d)
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)
› Internal Audit (Cont’d)
The Internal Auditors are solely responsible for planning, implementing and reporting the audits for the Group.
The Internal Auditors:
o Prepare a detailed Internal Audit Plan in consultation with the senior management for submission to the
Audit Committee for approval;
o Carry out all activities to conduct the audits in an effective, professional and timely manner;
o Discuss with the audit committee upon completion of each audit for any significant control lapses and/or
deficiencies noted from the reviews for their review and corrective actions; and
o Submit quarterly report to the Audit Committee for all significant non-compliance, internal control
weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve the audit issues identified.
› Audit Committee
The Audit Committee reviews, monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s
internal controls and financial issues raised by the External and Internal Auditors, regulatory authorities and
management. The review includes reviewing written reports from the Internal and External Auditors, to ensure
that where deficiencies in internal controls have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is
taken by management.
The Audit Committee also convenes meeting with External Auditors without the presence of management. In
addition, the Audit Committee reviews the adequacy of the scope, functions and competency of the Internal
and External Auditors. The Audit Committee also reviews and evaluates the procedures established to ensure
compliance with applicable legislation, the Listing Requirements and the Group practices.
The Audit Committee Report set out on pages 100 to 101 of this Annual Report contains further details on the
activities undertaken by the Audit Committee in 2021.
› Risk Management Committee
The Risk Management Committee reviews and recommends the Group’s risk management framework and
evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures and risk action
plans. The review includes reviewing quarterly reports from Enterprise Risk Management Committee, to ensure
that where risks have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is taken by management.
The Risk Management Committee Report set out on pages 102 to 103 of this Annual Report contains further
details on the activities undertaken by the Risk Management Committee in 2021.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
98 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Cont’d)
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)
› Board
The Board holds regular discussions with the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and management
and considers their reports on matters relating to internal controls and deliberates on their recommendations
for implementation.
o Business Direction: The Group’s vision, mission, corporate philosophy and strategic direction have been
formalised and communicated to employees at all levels. The Board retains control over the Group with
appropriate management reporting mechanisms which enable the Board to review the Group’s progress.
o Reporting and Information: Senior management reports to the Board for the strategic plans and business
units’ performances on a quarterly basis. The monitoring of individual business units’ performances is
conducted monthly, with major variances followed up and management action taken, where necessary.
Comprehensive information is provided to management every quarter, covering financial performance,
key business indicators, key business risks and legal, environmental and regulatory matters. Quarterly
meetings attended by management, led by the Group CEO, are held to discuss the various aspects of the
business, including financial and operational performance of the Group. Key matters affecting the Group
are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Management also ensures that it has the knowledge of key market information in respect of the Group’s
products/performance and takes pro-active measures, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Group.
o Monitoring and Review: There are processes for monitoring the system of internal controls and
reporting any significant weaknesses together with details of corrective action. The system is reviewed
on an ongoing basis by the Board (through the Audit Committee), management and Internal Auditors.
Heads of Department are also actively involved in continually improving the control processes within their
respective departments.
WEAKNESSES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS WHICH RESULTED IN MATERIAL LOSSES
There were no major weaknesses in internal controls which resulted in material losses during the financial year under
review until the date of approval of this Statement.
ASSURANCE PROVIDED BY THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
In line with the Guidelines, the Group CEO and Group CFO have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems have been operated adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, to meet
the Group’s business objectives during the financial year under review.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 99
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Cont’d)
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by paragraph 15.23 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, the External Auditors have
reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the
year ended 31 December 2021. Their review was performed in accordance with the Audit and Assurance Practice Guide
3(“AAPG 3”) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. The External Auditors’ procedures have been conducted to
assess whether the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is supported by the documentation prepared
by or for the Directors and that it is an appropriate reflection of the process adopted by the Directors in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal control for the Group.
AAPG3 does not require the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control system of the Group. Based on the procedures performed, nothing had come to their attention that
caused them to believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out above was not prepared,
in all material respects, in accordance with the disclosure required by paragraph 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, nor was factually inaccurate.
CONCLUSION
The Board has taken the necessary steps to ensure that appropriate systems are in place for the assets of the Group to be
adequately safeguarded through the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and material misstatements.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Group’s annual report save for
those mentioned above. The Board continues to take pertinent measures to sustain and, where required, to improve the
Group’s risk management and internal control systems in meeting the Group’s strategic objectives.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 5 April 2022.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
100 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Audit Committee Report
MEMBERSHIP
Chairman : Ang Nyee Nyee		
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Members : Tan Ah Lai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Re-designated as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com.
SUMMARY OF WORK
A total of five (5) Audit Committee meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2021. The details of
attendance of each Audit Committee member are as follows:
Name of members Attendance
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
3/3
Tan Ah Lai
(Re-designated as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
5/5
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
3/3
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
2/2
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
2/2
During the financial year under review, the Audit Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance with its
existing Terms of Reference.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 101
Audit Committee Report (Cont’d)
SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)
The main work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the financial year included the following:
- considered the nomination of external auditors for recommendation to the Board for re-appointment;
- considered the audit fees payable to the external auditors for recommendation to the Board for approval;
- reviewed the performance of the external auditors in relation to the audit and performed follow-up measures, where
required;
- reviewed and evaluated factors relating to the independence of the external auditors. The Audit Committee worked
closely with the external auditors in establishing procedures in assessing the suitability and independence of the
external auditors, in confirming that they are, and have been, independent throughout the conduct of the audit
engagement with the Group in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Accountants;
- reviewed the external auditors’ scope of work and audit plans and strategy for the year prior to the audit;
- reviewed the results of the audit, the audit report and the management letter, including management’s response, and
the assistance given by the employees to the external auditors;
- reviewed the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 and matters relating to
management judgments and estimates;
- reviewed quarterly unaudited financial statements of the Company prior to submission to the Board for their
consideration and approval;
- reviewed whether the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position and
performance;
- met with external auditors without the presence of management on 22 November 2021 and 21 February 2022 and
discussed on matters arising from the interim and final results;
- reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors and/or its network firms to eliminate or reduce
the threat to objectivity and independence;
- reviewed the internal auditors’ programmes and plans for the financial year under review and the assessment of the
effectiveness of internal audit activities;
- reviewed the re-appointment of the internal auditors and audit fee;
- reviewed the internal audit plans, reports, recommendations and management’s response;
- reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situations, including reviewing recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature and control procedures for those transactions in the shareholders’ mandate;
- reviewed the anti-bribery and corruption policy and recommended the amendment and/or modification, if any to
the Board;
- reviewed processes and controls that were in place for effective and efficient financial reporting and disclosures
under the financial reporting standards;
- ensured that the Group is in compliance with the regulations of Companies Act 2016, the applicable approved accounting
standards as per Malaysian Accounting Standards Board, Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, Malaysia Code on Corporate Governance and other legislative and reporting requirements; and
- reviewed the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report
and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and recommended their adoption to the Board,
deliberated the disclosure requirements for sustainability statement and noted the management action plan.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls which provide reasonable
assessment of effective operations, internal financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations as well as with
internal procedures and guidelines.
The Company has engaged an external independent consultant to carry out the internal audit function to assist the Audit
Committee in maintaining a sound system of internal control. The internal audits were undertaken to provide independent
assessments on the accuracy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems.
An overview of the Group’s approach in maintaining a sound system of internal control is set out in the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control on pages 94 to 99 of this Annual Report.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
102 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Risk Management Committee Report
For an effective risk management framework, the Risk Management Committee was set up to oversee the risk management
of the Group pursuant to step up practice 10.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance.
MEMBERSHIP
Chairman : Hia Cheng
(Executive Director)
Members : Tan Ah Lai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ang Nyee Nyee		
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at www.
gcbcocoa.com.
SUMMARY OF WORK
A total of five (5) Risk Management Committee meeting was held for the financial year ended 31 December 2021. The
details of attendance of each Risk Management Committee member are as follows:
Name of members Attendance
Hia Cheng 5/5
Tan Ah Lai 5/5
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
3/3
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
2/2
The Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s approach
on risk management. The Group has a formal risk management policy and framework approved by the Board and the Risk
Management Committee is supported by the Enterprise Risk Management Committee comprises of heads of department,
headed by the Chief Financial Officer in overseeing the risk management efforts within the Group.
For risk management, the Group has in place an on-going process for identifying principal business risks within the
organisation, assessing the likelihood of occurrence and impact of exposures and determining the corresponding risk
mitigation and treatment measures.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 103
SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)
Risk management activities are practised throughout the organisation to support the Risk Management Committee in its
corporate governance responsibilities. Enterprise Risk Management Committee and the respective departmental heads
would proactively and effectively manage significant risks that might affect the Group’s objectives. A set of risk indicators
has been developed and is used to enhance the monitoring and mitigation of risks events.
		
During the financial year under review, the Risk Management Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance
with its existing Terms of Reference.
The main work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee during the financial year included the following:
- Provided guidance for the direction of the Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) committee;
- Reviewed and recommended the Group’s risk management framework for the Board’s approval;
- Monitored the implementation of the risk management framework and activities conducted by the Group ERM
committee;
- Reviewed and advised on the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance;
- Reviewed the adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures to ensure all material risks are identified;
- Reviewed material risks and evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of risk action plans, vis-à-vis the risk appetite
and risk profile of the Group;
- Reviewed the Group’s risk profile on an annual basis and ensured that all material risks outside of the Group’s tolerable
ranges are being addressed in risk action plans in a timely manner;
- Reported to the Board regarding the Group’s risk exposures;
- Reviewed the adequacy of infrastructure and resources for the Group’s risk management; and
- Reviewed the Risk Management Committee Report to ensure that all relevant information as prescribed in the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad is disclosed.
Risk Management Committee Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
104 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements for each financial year. They are responsible for
ensuring that these financial statements are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysia Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company and the results and cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently,
and made estimates and judgements which are reasonable and prudent. The financial statements have been prepared on a
going-concern basis. It is the duty of the Directors to review the appropriateness of the basis before adopting the financial
statements and present them before the Annual General Meeting together with their Report and the Auditors’ Report
thereon.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting and other records are kept to sufficiently explain the
transactions recorded. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to exercise judgement to make
certain estimates that are reasonable, prudent and relevant to be incorporated in the financial statements. The Directors
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
Financial
STATEMENTS
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
106 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Directors’ Report
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in business of investment holding and provision of management services to subsidiaries.
The principal activities and details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements. There have been no
significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the financial year 154,838,455 24,572,107
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 154,838,455 24,572,107
DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:
RM
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2020:
Final single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 4 June 2021 10,383,701
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:
First interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 9 July 2021 10,383,851
Second interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 20 January 2022 10,544,068
31,311,620
The Directors proposed a final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2021, which is subject to the approval of members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The
financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by
the shareholders, will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the financial year
ending 31 December 2022.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 107
Directors’ Report (Cont’d)
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 1,034,307,898
to 1,054,806,783 by way of issuance of 20,498,885 new ordinary shares pursuant to 20,498,885 warrants exercised at an
exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company. There
were no other issues of shares during the financial year.
The Company did not issue any debentures during the financial year.
TREASURY SHARES
As at 31 December 2021, the Company held 400,000 (2020: 400,000) of its ordinary shares as treasury shares out of
its total 1,054,806,783 (2020: 1,034,307,898) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares. Such treasury shares are held at a
carrying amount of RM720,042 (2020: RM720,042) and further details are disclosed in Note 19 to the financial statements.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
WARRANTS 2019/2022
On 12 November 2019, the Company issued 168,022,058 free warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant for every three (3)
existing ordinary share.
The warrants were constituted under the Deed Poll dated 14 October 2019. During the financial year, 20,498,885 warrants
(2020: 25,957,028 warrants) are exercised and the total number of warrants that remain unexercised is 121,548,179 (2020:
142,047,064).
The salient terms of the Warrants are disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
DIRECTORS
The Directors who have held for office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Guan Chong Berhad
Tay Hoe Lian*
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick*
Hia Cheng*
Tan Ah Lai
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Ang Nyee Nyee
Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa Bin Md. Jamil (Resigned on 15 April 2021)
Datuk Tay Puay Chuan (Resigned on 15 April 2021)
* These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
108 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
DIRECTORS (CONT’D)
Subsidiaries of Guan Chong Berhad
Tay How Yeh
Tay See Min (f)
Yau Tee Wan
Werner Rudolf Ludwig
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance as at
1.1.2021 Addition Sold
Balance as at
31.12.2021
Shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 28,791,582 - - 28,791,582
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 11,079,096 - - 11,079,096
Hia Cheng 18,296,358 - - 18,296,358
Indirect interests:
Tay Hoe Liana 620,000 - - 620,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sickb 2,580,000 - (10,000) 2,570,000
Hia Chengc 31,163,598 - - 31,163,598
Ang Nyee Nyeed 8,000 - - 8,000
Shares in the ultimate holding company
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. (“GCR”)
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 19,000 5,111,000 - 5,130,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 13,934 3,748,246 - 3,762,180
Hia Cheng 5,000 1,345,000 - 1,350,000
Directors’ Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 109
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONT’D)
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows: (Cont’d)
Number of warrants
Balance as at
1.1.2021 Addition Exercised Sold
Balance as at
31.12.2021
Warrants in the Company
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 1,288,595 - - - 1,288,595
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 1,079,849 - - - 1,079,849
Hia Cheng 2,116,059 - - - 2,116,059
Indirect interests:
Tay Hoe Liana 100,000 - - - 100,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sickb 20,000 - - - 20,000
Hia Chengc 3,533,932 - - - 3,533,932
a Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the Company.
b Deemed interest by virtue of his daughters, Tay Jing Ye’s, and Tay Sing Ye’s, and his son, Tay Lian Shi’s shareholding in
the Company.
c Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughters, Hia Sin Yee’s and Hia Sin Che’s shareholding
in the Company.
d Deemed interest by virtue of her husband, Leong Chee Foong’s shareholding in the Company.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares and
options over ordinary shares in the Company or ordinary shares, options over ordinary shares and debentures of its related
corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors of the Company have received or become entitled to
receive any benefit by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director, or with a firm
of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than
the following:
(a) remuneration received by certain Directors as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 32
to the financial statements; and
(b) by virtue of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 34 to the financial
statements.
There were no arrangements made during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which
had the object of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
Directors’ Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
110 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 32 to the financial statements.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ liability insurance amounted to RM19,855 during the financial year to
protect the Directors of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought
against the Directors.
No indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable
steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making
of provision for doubtful debts and have satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written
off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the
ordinary course of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual
nature.
(II) FROM THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect
substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which
this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the
period of twelve (12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of
the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
Directors’ Report (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 111
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY (CONT’D)
(III) AS AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in the report or financial statements
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Details of the significant events during the financial year are set out in Note 38 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Details of the significant event subsequent to the end of financial year are set out in Note 39 to the financial statements.
ULTIMATE HOLDING COMPANY
The Directors regard Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated in Malaysia, as the ultimate holding
company.
 
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT (LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The details of auditors’ remuneration of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
are disclosed in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
Tay Hoe Lian Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director Director
Johor Bahru
5 April 2022
Directors’ Report (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
112 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statement by Directors
Statutory Declaration
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 117 to 215 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31
December 2021 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
Tay Hoe Lian Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director Director
Johor Bahru
5 April 2022
I, Tay Hoe Lian, being the Director primarily responsible for the financial management of Guan Chong Berhad, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 117 to 215 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Johor Bahru, Johor this )
5 April 2022 )
Before me:
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 113
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Guan Chong Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Guan Chong Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 December 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out
on pages 117 to 215.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matters of the Group
1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value
As at 31 December 2021, the inventories of the Group of RM1,875,457,509 that mainly comprised cocoa beans and
related cocoa products. Details of the inventories have been disclosed in Note 14 to the financial statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because of the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of
finished goods to net realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility, which
may result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable values.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
114 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Independent Auditors’ Report (Cont’d)
To the Members of Guan Chong Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
Key Audit Matters of the Group (Cont’d)
1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value (Cont’d)
Audit response
Our audit procedures included the following:
(i) Obtained an understanding of the process implemented by management over the determination of lower of
cost and net realisable value used in the valuation of inventories;
(ii) Analysed the inventories turnover period by comparing that to the assessment of management on the
identification of slow moving and obsolete inventories; and
(iii) Assessed the appropriateness of inventories written down by verifying selling prices subsequent to the end of
the reporting period.
2) Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 31 December 2021, the net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM363,322,763 and
cumulative allowance for impairment on trade receivables was RM23,697,767 as disclosed in Note 15 to the financial
statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in
determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
Audit response
Our procedures included the following:
(i) Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward looking information adjustment applied
by the Group;
(ii) Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward looking
information and expected credit losses;
(iii) Verified the level of cash received subsequent to the end of the reporting period for its effect in reducing the
amounts outstanding as at the end of the reporting period; and
(iv) Recomputed the correlation coefficient between forward looking factors and historical credit losses to
determine the appropriateness of the forward looking information of the Group.
Key Audit Matters of the Company
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 115
Independent Auditors’ Report (Cont’d)
To the Members of Guan Chong Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis
of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and the Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
116 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: (Cont’d)
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We
describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT Sia Yeak Hong
LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206 03413/02/2023 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Johor Bahru
5 April 2022
Independent Auditors’ Report (Cont’d)
To the Members of Guan Chong Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 117
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2021
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 957,460,382 844,749,732 - -
Investment properties 9 20,318,799 21,134,674 - -
Intangible assets 10 88,360,555 93,165,869 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 11 - - 127,232,530 127,232,530
Investments in associates 12 4,551,667 4,219,947 5,000,000 5,000,000
Deferred tax assets 22 1,737,084 1,661,447 - -
Other receivables 15 - - 459,318,721 427,533,493
1,072,428,487 964,931,669 591,551,251 559,766,023
Current assets
Inventories 14 1,875,457,509 1,302,063,828 - -
Trade and other receivables 15 431,642,871 420,329,021 22,014,551 17,824,905
Derivative financial assets 16 33,463,683 52,684,505 - 2,623,803
Current tax assets 8,670,990 8,151,799 - 10,078
Cash and bank balances 17 73,808,713 78,210,530 6,509,926 6,665,753
2,423,043,766 1,861,439,683 28,524,477 27,124,539
TOTAL ASSETS 3,495,472,253 2,826,371,352 620,075,728 586,890,562
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the
parent
Share capital 18 297,058,820 263,235,660 297,058,820 263,235,660
Treasury shares 19 (720,042) (720,042) (720,042) (720,042)
Reserves 20 1,046,008,051 926,393,559 767,993 7,507,506
TOTAL EQUITY 1,342,346,829 1,188,909,177 297,106,771 270,023,124
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
118 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 391,826,113 428,935,832 300,000,000 300,000,000
Lease liabilities 8 46,105,563 50,029,356 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 22 75,094,836 74,159,101 - -
Retirement benefits obligations 23 3,215,651 3,138,249 - -
516,242,163 556,262,538 300,000,000 300,000,000
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 683,185,977 364,194,581 12,010,547 16,867,438
Derivative financial liabilities 16 27,277,508 75,133,038 10,605,177 -
Borrowings 21 900,463,455 606,037,722 - -
Lease liabilities 8 12,929,847 9,095,249 - -
Current tax liabilities 13,026,474 26,739,047 353,233 -
1,636,883,261 1,081,199,637 22,968,957 16,867,438
TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,153,125,424 1,637,462,175 322,968,957 316,867,438
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,495,472,253 2,826,371,352 620,075,728 586,890,562
Statements of Financial Position (Cont’d)
As at 31 December 2021
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 119
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Revenue 26 3,923,297,392 3,684,984,802 39,892,236 18,673,468
Cost of sales (3,575,187,299) (3,308,983,120) - -
Gross profit 348,110,093 376,001,682 39,892,236 18,673,468
Other income 65,987,129 112,415,027 14,072,329 32,340,133
Net impairment (losses)/reversal on trade
and other receivables 15(h) (1,911,264) 2,540,145 35,072 230,000
Selling and distribution costs (61,287,949) (50,839,094) - -
Administrative expenses (98,176,320) (77,303,128) (2,378,595) (4,016,975)
Other expenses (23,555,393) (70,212,550) (13,228,980) (3,355,971)
Finance costs 27 (32,817,049) (25,618,764) (11,520,000) (883,726)
Share of profit of associates, net of tax 410,611 336,535 - -
Profit before tax 27 196,759,858 267,319,853 26,872,062 42,986,929
Tax expense 28 (41,921,403) (44,610,818) (2,299,955) (50,180)
Profit for the financial year 154,838,455 222,709,035 24,572,107 42,936,749
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
- hedge of net investments in foreign
		operations 28(c) (9,266,971) 2,428,506 - -
- foreign currency translation 28(c) 5,312,869 8,073,128 - -
- share of other comprehensive loss of
		associates 28(c) (78,891) (36,874) - -
Items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
- remeasurement of employee benefits
		 liability, net of tax 28(c) 120,650 (265,667) - -
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income,
net of tax (3,912,343) 10,199,093 - -
Total comprehensive income 150,926,112 232,908,128 24,572,107 42,936,749
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
120 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 154,838,455 222,709,035 24,572,107 42,936,749
Total comprehensive income attributable to
owners of the parent 150,926,112 232,908,128 24,572,107 42,936,749
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to
owners of the parent (sen):
- Basic 29 14.86 21.82
- Diluted 29 14.17 20.64
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income (Cont’d)
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 121
Statements of Changes in Equity
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Non-Distributable Distributable
Group Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
RM
Hedging
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
equity
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2021 263,235,660 (720,042) 47,099,030 2,428,506 876,866,023 1,188,909,177
Profit for the year - - - - 154,838,455 154,838,455
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the
year:
- hedge of net investments in foreign
		operations 28(c) - - - (9,266,971) - (9,266,971)
- foreign currency translation differences 28(c) - - 5,312,869 - - 5,312,869
- remeasurement of post-employment
		 benefit obligation, net of tax 28(c) - - - - 120,650 120,650
- share of other comprehensive loss of
		associates 28(c) - - (78,891) - - (78,891)
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 5,233,978 (9,266,971) 154,959,105 150,926,112
Transactions with owners
Dividends 30 - - - - (31,311,620) (31,311,620)
Issuance of ordinary shares 18 33,823,160 - - - - 33,823,160
Total transactions with owners 33,823,160 - - - (31,311,620) 2,511,540
Balance as at 31 December 2021 297,058,820 (720,042) 52,333,008 (6,838,465) 1,000,513,508 1,342,346,829
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
122 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Non-Distributable Distributable
Group Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
RM
Hedging
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
equity
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2020 220,406,564 (225,702) 39,062,776 - 690,378,829 949,622,467
Profit for the year - - - - 222,709,035 222,709,035
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the
year:
- hedge of net investments in foreign
		operations 28(c) - - - 2,428,506 - 2,428,506
- foreign currency translation differences 28(c) - - 8,073,128 - - 8,073,128
- remeasurement of post-employment
		 benefit obligation, net of tax 28(c) - - - - (265,667) (265,667)
- share of other comprehensive loss of
		associates 28(c) - - (36,874) - - (36,874)
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 8,036,254 2,428,506 222,443,368 232,908,128
Transactions with owners
Dividends 30 - - - - (35,956,174) (35,956,174)
Issuance of ordinary shares 18 42,829,096 - - - - 42,829,096
Purchase of treasury shares 19 - (494,340) - - - (494,340)
Total transactions with owners 42,829,096 (494,340) - - (35,956,174) 6,378,582
Balance as at 31 December 2020 263,235,660 (720,042) 47,099,030 2,428,506 876,866,023 1,188,909,177
Statements of Changes in Equity (Cont’d)
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 123
Statements of Changes in Equity (Cont’d)
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Non-distributable Distributable
Company Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2020 220,406,564 (225,702) 526,931 220,707,793
Profit for the financial year - - 42,936,749 42,936,749
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 42,936,749 42,936,749
Transactions with owners
Dividends 30 - - (35,956,174) (35,956,174)
Issuance of ordinary shares 18 42,829,096 - - 42,829,096
Purchase of treasury shares 19 - (494,340) - (494,340)
Total transactions with owners 42,829,096 (494,340) (35,956,174) 6,378,582
Balance as at 31 December 2020/Balance as
at 1 January 2021 263,235,660 (720,042) 7,507,506 270,023,124
Profit for the financial year - - 24,572,107 24,572,107
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 24,572,107 24,572,107
Transactions with owners
Dividends 30 - - (31,311,620) (31,311,620)
Issuance of ordinary shares 18 33,823,160 - - 33,823,160
Total transaction with owners 33,823,160 - (31,311,620) 2,511,540
Balance as at 31 December 2021 297,058,820 (720,042) 767,993 297,106,771
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
124 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 196,759,858 267,319,853 26,872,062 42,986,929
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 790,196 773,417 - -
Bad debts recovered (17,705) (51,428) (1,614,928) -
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment 7 61,538,789 55,014,193 - -
- investment properties 9 1,004,733 1,008,321 - -
Fair value loss on other investment 13 - 854,474 - -
Gain on lease termination (680) - - -
(Gain)/Loss on disposals of
- property, plant and equipment (2,748,422) 142,429 - -
- associate 12(c) - (27,892,184) - (29,716,330)
Impairment loss on:
- intangible assets 10 1,002,169 - - -
- property, plant and equipment 7 331,005 - - -
- trade receivables 15(h) 4,247,440 3,822,831 - -
Increase in defined benefit obligation 23(d) 163,887 548,182 - -
Interest expense 27 32,817,049 25,618,764 11,520,000 883,726
Interest income (314,717) (461,930) - -
Inventories written down 14(b) 13,905,591 3,180,967 - -
Net fair value (gain)/loss on derivatives 16(d) (28,634,708) 25,240,842 13,228,980 (2,623,803)
Property, plant and equipment written off 7 5,045 5,099 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables 15(h) (2,336,176) (6,350,373) (35,072) (230,000)
- other receivables 15(h) - (12,603) - -
Share of profit of associates (410,611) (336,535) - -
Net unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign
exchange translations (190,342) (9,685,318) (10,053,742) 3,355,371
Operating profit before changes in working
capital 277,912,401 338,739,001 39,917,300 14,655,893
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 125
Statements of Cash Flows (Cont’d)
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Operating profit before changes in working
capital carried forward 277,912,401 338,739,001 39,917,300 14,655,893
Inventories (574,100,538) (212,578,905) - -
Trade and other receivables 8,996,469 115,294,122 (24,271,132) (356,882,852)
Trade and other payables 296,424,920 (65,916,290) 107,659 777,889
Net cash generated from/(used in)
operations 9,233,252 175,537,928 15,753,827 (341,449,070)
Interest paid (31,329,272) (24,546,006) (11,520,000) (883,726)
Interest received 314,717 461,930 - -
Retirement benefits paid 23(d) (48,052) (72,871) - -
Tax paid (57,435,481) (60,462,515) (1,936,644) (54,190)
Tax refunded 131,088 133,951 - -
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (79,133,748) 91,052,417 2,297,183 (342,386,986)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING
ACTIVITIES
Acquisitions/Addition of:
- investment in subsidiary - - - (6,240,000)
- subsidiaries, net of cash and cash
equivalents acquired 11(c) - (134,247,761) - -
Advances from ultimate holding company - 358,441 - 358,441
Placements of deposits with licensed banks
with original maturity of more than three
months (403,183) (6,972,262) (120,781) (5,773,019)
Proceeds from disposals of:
- associate 12(c) - 32,000,000 - 32,000,000
- property, plant and equipment 10,124,131 100,328 - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 7(a) (174,311,461) (212,459,864) - -
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (164,590,513) (321,221,118) (120,781) 20,345,422
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
126 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Statements of Cash Flows (Cont’d)
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group Company
Note
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid (36,276,170) (20,447,556) (36,276,170) (20,447,556)
Net movements in borrowings 257,851,225 242,504,060 - 300,000,000
Net placement of fixed deposits pledged (641,173) 817,967 - -
Proceeds from issuance of new shares 18 33,823,160 42,829,096 33,823,160 42,829,096
Purchase of treasury shares 19 - (494,340) - (494,340)
Repayments of lease liabilities 8 (13,526,480) (10,438,285) - -
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 241,230,562 254,770,942 (2,453,010) 321,887,200
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash
equivalents (2,493,699) 24,602,241 (276,608) (154,364)
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash
and cash equivalents (2,952,474) 663,511 - -
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
financial year 58,338,255 33,072,503 892,734 1,047,098
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial
year 17(d) 52,892,082 58,338,255 616,126 892,734
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Lease liabilities
(Note 8)
Borrowings
(Note 21)
Group
RM
Company
RM
Group
RM
Company
RM
At 1 January 2020 3,885,119 - 682,713,526 -
Cash flows (10,438,285) - 242,504,060 300,000,000
Non-cash flows:
- Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) 25,446,452 - 113,390,506 -
- Additions of property, plant and equipment 36,426,958 - - -
- Effect of foreign exchange 2,731,603 - (3,634,538) -
- Unwinding of interest 1,072,758 - - -
At 31 December 2020/At 1 January 2021 59,124,605 - 1,034,973,554 300,000,000
Cash flows (13,526,480) - 257,851,225 -
Non-cash flows:
- Additions 14,439,345 - - -
- Effect of foreign exchange (2,338,853) - (535,211) -
- Termination (150,984) - - -
- Unwinding of interest 1,487,777 - - -
At 31 December 2021 59,035,410 - 1,292,289,568 300,000,000
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 127
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2021
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office of the Company is located at No.7 (1st Floor), Jalan Pesta 1/1, Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1, Jalan Bakri,
84000 Muar, Johor Darul Takzim.
The principal place of business is located at PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2, Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim.
The ultimate holding company of the Company is Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., which is incorporated in
Malaysia.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 comprise the Company and
its subsidiaries and interests of the Group in associates. These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia
(“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional currency.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on
5 April 2022.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding and provision of management services to subsidiaries.
The principal activities and details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements. There have
been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
3. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company set out on pages 117 to 215 have been prepared in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of
adoption of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the
financial year are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
4.1 Basis of accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRSs and IFRSs requires the Directors to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and
disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. In addition, the Directors are also required to exercise
their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving such judgements,
estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements. Although these estimates and
assumptions are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results could differ from
those estimates.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
128 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.2 Basis of consolidation
Where the company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. The company controls an
investee if all three of the following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns
from the investee, and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns. Control is
reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of
control.
De-facto control exists in situations where the company has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities
of the investee without holding the majority of the voting rights. In determining whether de-facto control exists
the company considers all relevant facts and circumstances, including:
(a) The size of the company’s voting rights relative to both the size and dispersion of other parties who hold
voting rights;
(b) Substantive potential voting rights held by the company and by other parties;
(c) Other contractual arrangements; and
(d) Historic patterns in voting attendance.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of the company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) as if
they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between group companies are therefore
eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the acquisition
method. In the statement of financial position, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of acquired operations are
included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases.
4.3 Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured
at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
(a) Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are
recognised and measured in accordance with MFRS 112 Income Taxes and MFRS 119 Employee Benefits
respectively;
(b) Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment transactions of the acquiree or the
replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment transactions are measured in accordance
with MFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; and
(c) Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with MFRS 5 Non-current
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the
serviced are received.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 129
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.3 Business combinations (Cont’d)
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Measurement period
adjustments to contingent consideration are dealt with as follows:
(a) If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for
within equity.
(b) Other contingent consideration that:
(i) is within the scope of MFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in
fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with MFRS 9; and
(ii) is not within the scope of MFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes
in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.
In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are re-measured
to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised in profits or loss.
Components of non-controlling interests in the acquire that are present ownership interests and entitle their
holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation are initially measured at fair
value, or at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquire
identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-
date fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by MFRSs. The choice of measurement basis is
made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent to initial recognition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’
share of subsequent changes in equity.
Any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the business combination, the
amount of non-controlling interests in the acquiree (if any), and the fair value of the Group’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities
is recorded as goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial position. The accounting policy for goodwill
is set out in Note 4.8 to the financial statements. In instances where the latter amount exceeds the former, the
excess is recognised as a gain on bargain purchase in profit or loss on the acquisition date.
4.4 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
All items of property, plant and equipment (excluding right-of-use assets) are initially measured at cost. Cost
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate,
only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset
would flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of parts
that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Cost also comprises the initial estimate of dismantling and removing
the item and restoring the site on which it is located for which the Group is obligated to incur when the asset is
acquired, if applicable.
Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment (excluding right-of-use assets) with a cost that is
significant in relation to the total cost of the asset and which has different useful life, is depreciated separately.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
130 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.4 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation (Cont’d)
After initial recognition, property, plant and equipment (excluding right-of-use assets) are stated at cost less any
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight line basis over
their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods and rates are as follows:
Factory buildings and renovation 5 years to 50 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment 5% - 12.5%
Motor vehicles 16% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 5% - 16.7%
Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Capital work-in-progress represents machineries
and software systems under installation and is stated at cost. Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated until
such time when the asset is available for use.
At the end of each reporting period, the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is
assessed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not
be recoverable. A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount (see Note 4.9 to
the financial statements on impairment of non-financial assets).
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to
ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the
expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the items of property, plant
and equipment. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an
accounting estimate.
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds, if
any, and the carrying amount is included in profit or loss.
4.5 Leases
The Group as a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the commencement date of the contract for
all leases excluding short-term leases or leases for which the underlying asset is of low value, conveying the
right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time.
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both:
(a) periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option;
and
(b) periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that
option.
In assessing whether a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an
option to terminate a lease, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive for the lessee to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the
lease. The Group revises the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 131
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.5 Leases (Cont’d)
The Group as a lessee (Cont’d)
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases and leases
of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recorded at cost, which comprises:
(a) the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability;
(b) any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the lease, less any lease incentives
received;
(c) any initial direct costs incurred by the Group; and
(d) an estimate of costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing the underlying asset,
restoring the site on which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the
lessor.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability.
 
The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the
earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term, as follows:
Factory buildings and renovation:
- Rented buildings 2-3 years
- Leasehold warehouse 34 years
Leasehold land 25-60 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment 2-4 years
Motor vehicles 3-5 years
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date. The lease payments are discounted using the incremental borrowing rate of the Group.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, the Group measures the lease liability by increasing the carrying amount
to reflect interest in the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect lease payments made, and
remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-
substance fixed lease payments.
The Group as a lessor
Leases in which the Group and the Company do not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership
of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and are recognised over the lease term on the same bases as
rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
132 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.6 Investment properties
Investment properties are properties which are held to earn rental yields or for capital appreciation or for both
and are not occupied by the Group. Investment properties also include properties that are being constructed
or developed for future use as investment properties. Investment properties are initially measured at cost,
including transaction costs, less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the investment properties or recognised as a separate
asset, as appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits
associated with the asset would flow to the Group and the cost of the asset could be measured reliably. The
carrying amount of parts that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of investment
properties are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Cost also comprises the initial estimate of dismantling
and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located for which the Group is obligated to incur
when the investment properties are acquired, if applicable.
After initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of the investment properties to their residual values
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods for the investments
properties are as follows:
Freehold building 30 years
Leasehold buildings 43 years
Leasehold land 13 years
Leasehold office 27 years
At the end of each reporting period, the carrying amount of an item of the investment properties is assessed for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable.
A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount (see Note 4.9 to the financial
statements on impairment of non-financial assets).
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to
ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the
expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the investment properties.
If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting
estimate.
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when they are permanently
withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The gains or losses arising
from the retirement or disposal of investment property is determined as the difference between the net disposal
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss in the period of the
retirement or disposal.
4.7 Investments
(a) Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity in which the Group and the Company are exposed, or have rights, to variable
returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and have the ability to affect those returns through its
power over the subsidiary.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 133
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.7 Investments (Cont’d)
(a) Subsidiaries (Cont’d)
An investment in subsidiary, which is eliminated on consolidation, is stated in the separate financial
statements of the Company at cost less impairment loss, if any. Investments accounted for at cost shall be
accounted for in accordance with MFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
when they are classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale)
in accordance with MFRS 5.
When control of a subsidiary is lost as a result of a transaction, event or other circumstance, the Group
would derecognise all assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests at their carrying amount and to
recognise the fair value of the consideration received. Any retained interest in the former subsidiary is
recognised at its fair value at the date control is lost. The resulting difference is recognised as a gain or
loss in profit or loss.
(b) Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group and the Company have significant influence and that is
neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint arrangement. Significant influence is the power to participate
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is neither control nor joint control over
those policies.
In the separate financial statements of the Company, an investment in associate is stated at cost less any
impairment losses.
An investment in associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
method of accounting. The investment in associate in the consolidated statement of financial position
is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the share of net
assets of the investments of the Group.
The interest in an associate is the carrying amount of the investment in the associate under the equity
method together with any long term interest that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the
associate of the Group.
The share of the profit or loss of the associate by the Group during the financial year is included in the
consolidated financial statements, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the
Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Distributions received from the associate reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Adjustments to
the carrying amount could also be necessary for changes in the proportionate interest of the Group in the
associate arising from changes in the associate’s equity that have not been recognised in the associate’s
profit or loss. Such changes include those arising from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment
and from foreign exchange translation differences. The share of those changes by the Group is recognised
directly in equity of the Group.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the
extent of the interest of the Group in the associate to the extent that there is no impairment.
When the share of losses of the Group in the associate equals to or exceeds its interest in the associate,
the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the Group does not recognise further losses
unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on its behalf.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
134 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.7 Investments (Cont’d)
(b) Associates (Cont’d)
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained
interest plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date
when equity method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.
When the interest of the Group in an associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is
recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are
also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified
to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
4.8 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill recognised in a business combination is an asset at the acquisition date and is initially measured
at cost being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling
interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the
entity over net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed. If, after reassessment, the interest of the Group in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net
assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in
the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the
excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Goodwill
is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired. Objective events that would trigger a
more frequent impairment review include adverse industry or economic trends, significant restructuring
actions, significantly lowered projections of profitability, or a sustained decline in the acquiree’s market
capitalisation. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill
relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of an associate is the excess of cost of investment over the share of the
net fair value of net assets of the associates’ identifiable assets and liabilities by the Group at the date of
acquisition.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not
amortised. The excess of the share of the net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities
by the Group over the cost of investment is included as income in the determination of the share of the
associate’s profit or loss by the Group in the period in which the investment is acquired.
(b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are recognised only when the identifiability, control and future economic benefit
probability criteria are met.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 135
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.8 Intangible assets (Cont’d)
(b) Other intangible assets (Cont’d)
The Group recognises at the acquisition date separately from goodwill, an intangible asset of the acquiree,
irrespective of whether the asset had been recognised by the acquiree before the business combination.
In-process research and development projects acquired in such combinations are recognised as an asset
even if subsequent expenditure is written off because the criteria specified in the policy for research and
development is not met. 
Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of intangible assets recognised in a business
combination is their fair values as at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or
indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated
economic useful lives and are assessed for any indication that the asset could be impaired. If any such
indication exists, the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of the asset. The amortisation period
and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end
of each reporting period. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in
profit or loss and is included within the other operating expenses line item.
An intangible asset has an indefinite useful life when based on the analysis of all the relevant factors, there
is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows to
the Group. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually and wherever
there is an indication that the carrying amount may be impaired. Such intangible assets are not amortised.
Their useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and
circumstances continue to support the indefinite useful life assessment for the asset. If they do not, the
change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate in accordance with MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Expenditure on an intangible item that is initially recognised as an expense is not recognised as part of the
cost of an intangible asset at a later date.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from
its use. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition determined as the difference between the net
disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss when the
asset is derecognised.
Trademark
Acquired trademark with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the
cost of trademark over its estimated useful lives of fifteen (15) years.
Acquired trademark with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Non-contractual customer relationships
Acquired non-contractual customer relationships have finite useful lives and are carried at cost less
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the
straight line method to allocate the cost of non-contractual customer relationships over its estimated
useful lives of twenty (20) years.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
136 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.9 Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amount of assets, except for financial assets (excluding investments in subsidiaries and associates),
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether
there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken
annually at the financial year end. Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where the carrying
value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell),
the asset is written down accordingly.
The recoverable amount of an asset is estimated for an individual asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of the individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the cash generating unit (“CGU”)
to which the asset belongs. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition date, allocated
to each of the CGU or groups of CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving
rise to the goodwill irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units
or groups of units.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination shall be tested for impairment as part of the impairment testing
of CGU to which it relates. The CGU to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the
Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not larger than an operating
segment determined in accordance with MFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
In estimating the value in use, the estimated future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing
use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for
which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss
when the carrying amount of the asset or the CGU, including the goodwill or intangible asset, exceeds the
recoverable amount of the asset or the CGU. The total impairment loss is allocated, first, to reduce the carrying
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis of
the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
The impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately, if any.
An impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. An impairment loss for other assets is
reversed if, and only if, there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets’ recoverable
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised. Such reversals are recognised as income immediately in profit or loss.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 137
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.10 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out formula. The cost of raw materials comprises all cost of purchase
plus other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost of work-in-
progress and finished goods includes the cost of raw materials, direct labour, other direct cost and a proportion
of production overheads based on normal operating capacity of the production facilities.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
4.11 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability
or equity instrument of another enterprise.
A financial asset is any asset that is cash, an equity instrument of another enterprise, a contractual right to
receive cash or another financial asset from another enterprise, or a contractual right to exchange financial
assets or financial liabilities with another enterprise under conditions that are potentially favourable to the
Group.
A financial liability is any liability that is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to
another enterprise, or a contractual obligation to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another
enterprise under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group.
Financial instruments are recognised on the statements of financial position when the Group has become a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. At initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial
asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
financial asset and liability.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contact is not a
financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to the economic
characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contact is not measured at fair value through profit
or loss. The host contact, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contact.
(a) Financial assets
When financial assets are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial
assets not at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL), directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group determines the classification of financial assets upon initial recognition. The measurement for
each classification of financial assets are as below:
(i) Financial assets measured at amortised cost
Financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at amortised cost if they are held within a
business model whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows and have contractual terms
which give rise on specific dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
138 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.11 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(a) Financial assets (Cont’d)
The Group determines the classification of financial assets upon initial recognition. The measurement for
each classification of financial assets are as below: (Cont’d)
(i) Financial assets measured at amortised cost (Cont’d)
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss through the amortisation process.
Financial assets are carried net of any impairment losses if any.
(ii) Financial assets measured at fair value
Financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive
Income (FVTOCI), if they are held within a business model whose objectives are to collect contractual
cash flows and selling the financial assets, and have contractual terms which give rise on specific dates
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at
fair value. Any gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in other
comprehensive income, except for impairment losses, exchange differences and interest income
which are recognised in profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment
when the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets that are debt instruments which do not satisfy the requirements to be measured at
amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL.
Equity instruments are classified as financial assets measured at FVTPL if they are held for trading or
are designated as such upon initial recognition. Equity instruments are classified as held for trading if
they are acquired principally for sale in the near term or are derivatives that do not meet the hedge
accounting criteria (including separated embedded derivatives).
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets that are equity instruments are measured at fair value. Any
gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. Dividends on equity
instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payment is established.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the asset has
expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of the consideration received is recognised in profit or loss.
Cash and bank balances are measured at amortised cost. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on
hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly liquid investments which have an insignificant risk of
changes in fair value with original maturities of three (3) months or less and are used by the Group in the
management of its short term commitments. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and
cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or marketplace
convention. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as
applicable, using trade date accounting.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 139
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.11 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into
and the definition of a financial liability.
Financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the Group
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Financial liabilities are classified
as either financial liabilities measured at FVTPL or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(i) Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL include financial liabilities held for trading and financial
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in
the near term. This includes derivatives entered into by the Group that does not meet the hedge
accounting criteria. Derivatives liabilities are initially measured at fair value and subsequently stated
at fair value, with any resultant gains or losses recognised in profit or loss except for the Group’s
own credit risk increase or decrease which is recognised in other comprehensive income. Net gain
or losses on derivatives include exchange differences.
(ii) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value plus directly
attributable transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
For financial liabilities measured at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, it is extinguished, i.e. when the obligation
specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. An exchange between an existing borrower
and lender of debt instruments with substantially different terms are accounted for as an extinguishment
of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial
modification of the terms of an existing financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the
original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another
party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
recognised in profit or loss.
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
The Group designates corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to subsidiaries as
insurance contracts as defined in MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The Group recognises these insurance
contracts as recognised insurance liabilities when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a
result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
140 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.11 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial liabilities (Cont’d)
At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether its recognised insurance liabilities are
adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If this assessment
shows that the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities is inadequate, the entire deficiency shall be
recognised in profit or loss.
Recognised insurance liabilities are only removed from the statements of financial position when, and
only when, it is extinguished via a discharge, cancellation or expiration.
(c) Equity instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and the
Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received at issuance and classified as equity. Transaction
costs directly related to the issuance of equity instrument are accounted for as a deduction from equity,
net of any related income tax benefit. Otherwise, they are charged to profit or loss.
Interim dividends to shareholders are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared. Final
dividends are recognised upon the approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
When the Group repurchases its own shares, the shares repurchased would be accounted for using the
treasury stock method.
Where the treasury stock method is applied, the shares repurchased and held as treasury shares shall be
measured and carried at the cost of repurchase on initial recognition and subsequently. It shall not be
revalued for subsequent changes in the fair value or market price of the shares.
The carrying amount of the treasury shares shall be offset against equity in the statements of financial
position.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the own
equity instruments of the Company. If such shares are issued by resale, any difference between the sales
consideration and the carrying amount is shown as a movement in equity.
(d) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation are hedges against the exposure to exchange rate fluctuations
on the net asset of the Group’s foreign operations. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating
to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equity via other
comprehensive income while any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised directly
in profit or loss. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss.
4.12 Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company applies the simplified approach to measure expected credit loss (“ECL”). This
entails recognising a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 141
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.12 Impairment of financial assets (Cont’d)
Expected credit losses are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive. The estimate of expected cash
shortfall shall reflect the cash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the
contractual terms. The shortfall is then discounted at an approximation to the asset’s original effective interest
rate of the asset.
The Group considers credit loss experience and observable data such as current changes and futures forecasts
in economic conditions of the Group’s industry to the financial statements to estimate the amount of expected
impairment loss. The methodology and assumptions including any forecasts of future economic conditions are
reviewed regularly.
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based
on the simplified approach within MFRS 9 using the lifetime expected credit losses.
In measuring the expected credit losses on trade receivables, the probability of non-payment by the trade
receivables is adjusted by forward looking information and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising
from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the trade receivables. For trade receivables,
which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss being
recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the
trade receivable would not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the
associated impairment.
Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general
approach within MFRS 9 using the forward looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to
determine the amount of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk
since initial recognition of the financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has not increased significantly
since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve month expected credit losses along with gross interest
income are recognised. For those in which credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses
along with the gross interest income are recognised. At the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk for financial assets by comparing the risk for default
occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those that are determined
to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income on a net basis are recognised.
The probability of non-payment other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries is adjusted by forward
looking information and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the
twelve month or lifetime expected credit loss for the other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced through the use of an allowance for impairment loss
account and the amount of impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. When a financial asset becomes
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for impairment loss account.
4.13 Borrowing costs
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
4.14 Income taxes
Income taxes include all domestic and foreign taxes on taxable profit. Income taxes also include other taxes,
such as withholding taxes, which are payable by foreign subsidiaries to the Group and Company, and real
property gains taxes payable on disposal of properties.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
142 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.14 Income taxes (Cont’d)
Taxes in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income comprise current tax and deferred
tax.
(a) Current tax
Current tax expenses are determined according to the tax laws of each jurisdiction in which the Group
operates and include all taxes based upon the taxable profits (including withholding taxes payable by
foreign subsidiaries on distribution of retained earnings to companies in the Group), and real property
gains taxes payable on disposal of properties, if any.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the
carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, unless the deferred tax arises from goodwill or
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the
time of transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits would be
available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits
can be utilised. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting
period. If it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits would be available to allow the benefit of
part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised, the carrying amount of the deferred tax asset would be
reduced accordingly. When it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits would be available, such
reductions would be reversed to the extent of the taxable profits.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation
authority on either:
(i) the same taxable entity; or
(ii) different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net
basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which
significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.
Deferred tax would be recognised as income or expense and included in the profit or loss for the period
unless the tax relates to items that are credited or charged, in the same or a different period, directly to
equity, in which case the deferred tax would be charged or credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the announcement of tax rates and tax laws
by the Government in the annual budgets which have the substantive effect of actual enactment by the
end of each reporting period.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 143
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.15 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event,
when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle the
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of a provision would be discounted to its present
value at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the liability.
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If
it is no longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle
the obligation, the provision would be reversed.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. If the Group has a contract that is onerous, the
present obligation under the contract shall be recognised and measured as a provision.
4.16 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence would be confirmed
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group
or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources would be
required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability
that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably. The Group does not recognise a contingent
liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements.
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events whose existence would be confirmed by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group. The
Group does not recognise a contingent asset but disclose its existence where inflows of economic benefits are
probable, but not virtually certain.
In the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group under business combinations, contingent liabilities assumed are
measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
4.17 Employee benefits
(a) Short term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave, paid sick leave, bonuses and non-
monetary benefits are measured on an undiscounted and are expensed when employees have rendered
their services to the Group.
Short term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave are recognised as an expense
when employees render services that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences. Short
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when the absences
occur and they lapse if the current periods entitlement is not used in full and do not entitle employees to
a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the Group.
Bonuses are recognised as an expense when there is a present, legal or constructive obligation to make
such payments, as a result of past events and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
144 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.17 Employee benefits (Cont’d)
(b) Defined contribution plans
The Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in Malaysia make contributions to a statutory provident
fund and foreign subsidiaries make contributions to their respective countries’ statutory pension schemes.
The contributions are recognised as a liability after deducting any contribution already paid and as an
expense in the period in which the employees render their services.
(c) Defined benefit plans
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for eligible employees of the Group.
The recognition and measurement of the defined benefits plan involve:
(i) Determining the deficit or surplus by:
(a) Using an actuarial technique, the projected unit credit method, to make a reliable estimate of
the ultimate cost to the Group of the benefit that employees have earned in return for their
service in the current and prior periods;
(b) Discounting that benefit in order to determine the present value of the defined benefit
obligation and the current service cost; and
(c) Deducting the fair value or any plan assets from the present value of the defined benefit
obligation.
(ii) Determining the amount of the net defined benefit liability as the amount of the deficit or surplus as
determined above, adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling;
and
(iii) Determining amounts to be recognised in profit or loss, i.e. current service cost, any past service
cost and gain or loss on settlement and net interest on the net defined benefit liability.
The Group determines the net defined benefit liability annually so that the amounts recognised in the
financial statements do not differ materially from the amounts that would be determined at the end of the
reporting period.
The Group recognises the net defined benefit liability in the statements of financial position.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit
method.
The Group uses the yield rate of high quality government or corporate bonds which have AA rating or
higher to discount the post-employment benefit obligations. The currency and term of the government
bonds (corporate bonds) are consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-employment
benefit obligations of the Group.
There-measurementofthenetdefinedobligationisrecogniseddirectlywithinequity.There-measurement
includes:
(i) Actuarial gains and losses;
(ii) Return on plan assets, excluding interest; and
(iii) Any asset ceiling effects, excluding interest.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 145
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.17 Employee benefits (Cont’d)
(c) Defined benefit plans (Cont’d)
Services costs are recognised in profit or loss, and include current and past service costs as well as gains
and losses on curtailments.
Net interest expense is recognised in profit or loss, and is calculated by applying the discount rate used
to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the balance of the
net defined benefit obligation, considering the effects of contributions and benefit payments during the
reporting period. Gains or losses arising from changes to scheme benefits or scheme curtailment are
recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Settlement of defined benefit schemes are recognised in the period when the settlement occurs.
If there is no minimum funding requirement for contributions relating to future service, the economic
benefit available as a reduction in future contributions is the present value of future service cost to
the entity at the end of each reporting period over the shorter of the expected life of the plan and the
expected life of the entity. The Group would assume no change to the benefits provided by a plan in the
future until the plan is amended and shall assume a stable workforce in the future unless it is demonstrably
committed at the end of the reporting period to make a reduction in the number of employees covered
by the plan.
4.18 Foreign currencies
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the entities of the Group are measured using the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
functional and presentation currency.
(b) Foreign currency translations and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period
are translated into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at that date. All exchange differences
arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of foreign currency
monetary assets and liabilities are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Non-monetary
items initially denominated in foreign currencies, which are carried at historical cost, are translated using
the historical rate as of the date of acquisition, and non-monetary items, which are carried at fair value
are translated using the exchange rate that existed when the values were determined for presentation
currency purposes.
(c) Foreign operations
Financial statements of foreign operations are translated at end of the reporting period exchange rates
with respect to their assets and liabilities, and at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions with
respect to items reflected in profit or loss and other comprehensive income. All resulting translation
differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
 
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
146 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.18 Foreign currencies (Cont’d)
(c) Foreign operations (Cont’d)
In the consolidated financial statements, exchange differences arising from the translation of net
investment in foreign operations are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or
sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in profit or loss as part of the gain
or loss on disposal.
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of the net investment of the Company
in a foreign operation shall be recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the
Company or the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the consolidated financial statements, such exchange
differences shall be recognised initially as a separate component of equity and recognised in profit or loss
upon disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition of a foreign
operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity and translated at the exchange rate
ruling at the end of the reporting period.
4.19 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred
when (or as) the customer obtains control of the asset.
The Group transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria
is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
(b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable. The following describes the
performance obligations in contracts with customers.
Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of products is recognised at a point in time when the products has been transferred to the
customer and coincides with the delivery of products and acceptance by customers.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on
the normal credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 147
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.19 Revenue recognition (Cont’d)
Revenue recognition not in relation to performance obligations is described below:
(a) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established.
(b) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term of an ongoing lease.
(c) Management fee
Management fee from rendering of services is recognised when the services are rendered.
(d) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
4.20 Operating segments
Operating segments are defined as components of the Group that:
(a) Engages in business activities from which it could earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues
and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the Group);
(b) Whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker of the Group in
making decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assessing its performance; and
(c) For which discrete financial information is available.
An operating segment may engage in business activities for which it has yet to earn revenues.
The Group reports separately information about each operating segment that meets any of the following
quantitative thresholds:
(a) Its reported revenue, including both sales to external customers and intersegment sales or transfers, is ten
percent (10%) or more of the combined revenue, internal and external, of all operating segments.
(b) The absolute amount of its reported profit or loss is ten percent (10%) or more of the greater, in absolute
amount of:
(i) The combined reported profit of all operating segments that did not report a loss; and
(ii) The combined reported loss of all operating segments that reported a loss.
(c) Its assets are ten percent (10%) or more of the combined assets of all operating segments.
Operating segments that do not meet any of the quantitative thresholds may be considered reportable, and
separately disclosed, if the management believes that information about the segment would be useful to users
of the financial statements.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
148 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.20 Operating segments (Cont’d)
Total external revenue reported by operating segments shall constitute at least seventy five percent (75%) of
the Group’s revenue. Operating segments identified as reportable segments in the current financial year in
accordance with the quantitative thresholds would result in a restatement of prior period segment data for
comparative purposes.
4.21 Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial
year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year.
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial
year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year adjusted for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
4.22 Fair value measurement
The fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date. The fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer
the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most
advantageous market.
The Group measures the fair value of an asset or a liability by taking into account the characteristics of the asset
or liability if market participants would take these characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability.
The Group has considered the following characteristics when determining fair value:
(a) The condition and location of the asset; and
(b) Restrictions, if any, on the sale or use of the asset.
The fair value measurement for a non-financial asset takes into account the ability of the market participant
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The fair value of a financial or non-financial liability or an entity’s own equity instrument assumes that:
(a) A liability would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would be required to fulfil
the obligation. The liability would not be settled with the counterparty or otherwise extinguished on the
measurement date; and
(b) An entity’s own equity instrument would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would
take on the rights and responsibilities associated with the instrument. The instrument would not be
cancelled or otherwise extinguished on the measurement date.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 149
5. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
5.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the
Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform - Phase 2 (Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7,
MFRS 4 and MFRS 16) 1 January 2021
Amendment to MFRS 16 Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021 1 April 2021
(early adopt)
Adoption of the above Standards did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of
the Group and the Company.
5.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2022
The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been early
adopted by the Group and the Company:
Title Effective Date
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2023
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative Information (Amendment to
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts) 1 January 2023
Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial
Statements) 1 January 2023
Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 1 January 2023
Deferred tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments
to MFRS 112) 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
and its Associate or Joint Venture Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards since
the effects would only be observable for the future financial years.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
150 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
6. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
6.1 Changes in estimates
Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Directors are of the opinion that there are no significant changes in estimates at the end of the reporting
period.
6.2 Critical judgements made in applying accounting policies
There are no critical judgments made by management in the process of applying the Company’s accounting
policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
6.3 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the
end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
(a) Adequacy of write down of inventories to net realisable value
Management focused on the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of finished goods to net
realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility, which may
result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.
(b) Recoverability of trade receivables
Recoverability of trade receivables requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining
the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 151
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land
RM
Leasehold
land
RM
Factory buildings
and renovation
Plant, machineries,
tools and equipment Motor vehicles
Furniture,
fittings and
office
equipment
RM
Capital
work-in-
progress
RM
Total
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January 2021 72,974,297 55,042,613 246,806,601 29,506,494 633,507,130 17,522,457 13,636,314 2,448,090 40,664,772 110,993,777 1,223,102,545
Additions - 13,231,342 15,438,520 11,915,158 21,813,546 - 3,030,836 1,927,017 1,854,316 119,540,071 188,750,806
Disposals (5,561,915) - - - (1,811,558) - (642,825) - (5,411) (109,239) (8,130,948)
Lease termination - - - (38,548) - - - (573,903) - - (612,451)
Written off - - - (3,340,402) - - - - (7,239) - (3,347,641)
Reclassification - - - - 8,628,115 - - - - (8,628,115) -
Translation differences (916,715) (721,003) 4,468,496 (861,961) 3,075,121 (805,324) 210,359 (69,163) (820,825) (8,245,482) (4,686,497)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 66,495,667 67,552,952 266,713,617 37,180,741 665,212,354 16,717,133 16,234,684 3,732,041 41,685,613 213,551,012 1,395,075,814
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January 2021 - (7,689,245) (48,782,518) (10,344,522) (270,192,054) (3,078,494) (10,884,039) (1,121,597) (24,047,989) - (376,140,458)
Charge for the financial year - (1,963,855) (7,776,542) (7,287,601) (36,450,429) (2,003,469) (774,913) (812,336) (4,469,644) - (61,538,789)
Disposals - - - - 107,703 - 642,825 - 4,711 - 755,239
Lease termination - - - 24,093 - - - 438,054 - - 462,147
Written off - - - 3,340,402 - - - - 2,194 - 3,342,596
Translation differences - (158,247) (830,382) 261,157 (1,964,287) 217,257 (234,943) 33,783 722,855 - (1,952,807)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 - (9,811,347) (57,389,442) (14,006,471) (308,499,067) (4,864,706) (11,251,070) (1,462,096) (27,787,873) - (435,072,072)
Accumulated impairment losses
Balance as at 1 January 2021 - - - - (2,212,355) - - - - - (2,212,355)
Additions - - - - (331,005) - - - - - (331,005)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 - - - - (2,543,360) - - - - - (2,543,360)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December 2021 66,495,667 57,741,605 209,324,175 23,174,270 354,169,927 11,852,427 4,983,614 2,269,945 13,897,740 213,551,012 957,460,382
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
152 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
Group
Freehold
land
RM
Leasehold
land
RM
Factory buildings
and renovation
Plant, machineries,
tools and equipment Motor vehicles
Furniture,
fittings and
office
equipment
RM
Capital
work-in-
progress
RM
Total
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right-of-use
assets
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January 2020 40,120,470 24,743,801 176,463,815 6,617,819 494,249,004 - 12,920,972 1,127,229 16,843,133 6,639,461 779,725,704
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) 10,283,168 - 24,620,838 15,926,832 100,788,277 12,170,510 - 1,010,785 21,465,562 1,295,762 187,561,734
Additions 19,933,844 29,939,950 46,447,920 5,746,828 35,776,128 4,291,744 895,345 227,712 879,095 104,748,256 248,886,822
Disposals - - - - (5,623,185) - (27,242) - (16,756) - (5,667,183)
Written off - - - - - - - - (6,580) - (6,580)
Reclassification - - - - 4,746,223 - - - - (4,746,223) -
Translation differences 2,636,815 358,862 (725,972) 1,215,015 3,570,683 1,060,203 (152,761) 82,364 1,500,318 3,056,521 12,602,048
Balance as at 31 December 2020 72,974,297 55,042,613 246,806,601 29,506,494 633,507,130 17,522,457 13,636,314 2,448,090 40,664,772 110,993,777 1,223,102,545
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January 2020 - (6,786,758) (39,099,093) (3,010,998) (217,726,199) - (10,523,969) (211,331) (7,747,222) - (285,105,570)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) - - (3,500,032) (1,817,440) (23,263,267) (1,255,497) - (306,227) (11,092,977) - (41,235,440)
Charge for the financial year - (1,162,223) (6,535,352) (5,349,507) (34,860,632) (1,676,063) (515,195) (568,455) (4,346,766) - (55,014,193)
Disposals - - - - 5,380,428 - 27,242 - 16,756 - 5,424,426
Written off - - - - - - - - 1,481 - 1,481
Translation differences - 259,736 351,959 (166,577) 277,616 (146,934) 127,883 (35,584) (879,261) - (211,162)
Balance as at 31 December 2020 - (7,689,245) (48,782,518) (10,344,522) (270,192,054) (3,078,494) (10,884,039) (1,121,597) (24,047,989) - (376,140,458)
Accumulated impairment losses
Balance as at 1 January 2020/
31 December 2020 - - - - (2,212,355) - - - - - (2,212,355)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December 2020 72,974,297 47,353,368 198,024,083 19,161,972 361,102,721 14,443,963 2,752,275 1,326,493 16,616,783 110,993,777 844,749,732
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 153
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and
equipment:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Additions of property, plant and equipment 188,750,806 248,886,822
Rented right-of-use assets recognition for:
- leasehold land (1,362,105) (26,403,996)
- factory buildings and renovation (11,915,158) (5,503,506)
- plant, machineries, tools and equipment - (4,291,744)
- motor vehicles (1,162,082) (227,712)
Cash outflow for acquisition of property, plant and equipment 174,311,461 212,459,864
(b) The carrying amount of certain property, plant and equipment of the Group charged to financial institutions
for credit facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements at the end of the
reporting period are as follows:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Freehold land 9,409,543 9,862,835
Factory buildings and renovation - owned 78,775,658 78,781,374
Leasehold land 480,000 500,000
Plant and machineries - owned 91,783,281 102,091,609
180,448,482 191,235,818
(c) Impairment loss on certain plant and machineries of the Group of RM331,005 was recognised during the
financial year due to decline in down-stream operations of a subsidiary in Malaysia. Management estimated the
recoverable amounts based on fair value less costs of disposal. Following the impairment loss recognised, the
recoverable amount was equal to the carrying amount. The recoverable amounts were determined using Level
3 fair value measurements.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
154 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
Right-of-use assets
Rights-of-use assets related to leased properties, motor vehicles and plant, machinery and equipment that do not meet the definition of investment
property are presented as property, plant and equipment.
Right-of-use assets are re-presented and analysed as follows:
Group
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2021
RM
Additions
RM
Depreciation
RM
Termination
RM
Translation
difference
RM
Balance
as at
31.12.2021
RM
Leasehold land (Note 7) 47,353,368 13,231,342 (1,963,855) - (879,250) 57,741,605
Factory buildings and renovation (Note 7) 19,161,972 11,915,158 (7,287,601) (14,455) (600,804) 23,174,270
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment (Note 7) 14,443,963 - (2,003,469) - (588,067) 11,852,427
Motor vehicles (Note 7) 1,326,493 1,927,017 (812,336) (135,849) (35,380) 2,269,945
82,285,796 27,073,517 (12,067,261) (150,304) (2,103,501) 95,038,247
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2020
RM
Acquisition
of
subsidiaries
RM
Additions
RM
Depreciation
RM
Translation
difference
RM
Balance
as at
31.12.2020
RM
Leasehold land (Note 7) 17,957,043 - 29,939,950 (1,162,223) 618,598 47,353,368
Factory buildings and renovation (Note 7) 3,606,821 14,109,392 5,746,828 (5,349,507) 1,048,438 19,161,972
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment (Note 7) - 10,915,013 4,291,744 (1,676,063) 913,269 14,443,963
Motor vehicles (Note 7) 915,898 704,558 227,712 (568,455) 46,780 1,326,493
22,479,762 25,728,963 40,206,234 (8,756,248) 2,627,085 82,285,796
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 155
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Balance as at 1 January 59,124,605 3,885,119
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) - 25,446,452
Additions 14,439,345 36,426,958
Lease payments (13,526,480) (10,438,285)
Interest expense 1,487,777 1,072,758
Termination (150,984) -
Translation difference (2,338,853) 2,731,603
Balance as at 31 December 59,035,410 59,124,605
Represented by:
Current liabilities 12,929,847 9,095,249
Non-current liabilities 46,105,563 50,029,356
59,035,410 59,124,605
Lease liabilities owing to financial institutions 9,994,856 13,663,055
Lease liabilities owing to non-financial institutions 49,040,554 45,461,550
59,035,410 59,124,605
(a) The Group has certain leases of hostel, warehouse and machineries with lease term of 12 months or less. The
Group applies the “short-term lease” exemption for these leases.
(b) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets 12,067,261 8,756,248
Interest expense on lease liabilities 1,487,777 1,072,758
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in cost of sales and
administration expenses) 9,013,859 8,289,339
22,568,897 18,118,345
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
156 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(c) The following are total cash outflows for leases as a lessee:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Included in net cash from operating activities:
Payment relating to short-term leases 9,013,859 8,289,339
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 1,487,777 1,072,758
Included in net cash from investing activities:
Purchase of right-of-use assets 12,634,172 3,779,276
Included in net cash from financing activities:
Payment of lease liabilities 13,526,480 10,438,285
Total cash outflow for leases 36,662,288 23,579,658
(d) The Group leases several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. These are used to
maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. Management
exercises judgement in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain to
be exercised.
There is no undiscounted potential future rental payments that are not included in the lease term as at the end
of each reporting period.
(e) Weighted average incremental borrowing rates of the lease liabilities of the Group as at the end of the reporting
period ranged from 1.30% to 11.00% (2020: 1.82% to 11.00%) per annum.
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January 27,222,320 27,365,483
Translation differences 278,790 (143,163)
Balance as at 31 December 27,501,110 27,222,320
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January (6,087,646) (5,131,861)
Charge for the financial year (1,004,733) (1,008,321)
Translation differences (89,932) 52,536
Balance as at 31 December (7,182,311) (6,087,646)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December 20,318,799 21,134,674
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 157
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONT’D)
(a) The investment properties consist of the following:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Freehold building 3,633,638 3,678,934
Leasehold buildings 11,874,420 12,195,350
Leasehold land 3,363,979 3,779,222
Leasehold office 1,446,762 1,481,168
20,318,799 21,134,674
(b) Rental income and direct operating expenses arising from investment properties during the financial year are as
follows:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Rental income 3,192,693 2,461,613
Quit rent and assessment
- generating rental income (65,241) (65,989)
Insurance
- generating rental income (32,700) (39,047)
(c) The fair value of the investment properties of approximately RM23,300,000 (2020: RM23,600,000) at Level
3 was recommended by the Directors as at the end of reporting period based on comparison method that
makes reference to recent market value of a similar property in the vicinity on a price per square feet basis.
Any changes in the price per square feet will result in a reasonable change in the fair value of the investment
property.
(d) Freehold building with an aggregate carrying amount of RM3,633,638 (2020: RM3,678,934) are charged to a
financial institution for banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.
 
The Group as lessor
The Group had entered into non-cancellable lease agreements on certain premises and equipment with third parties.
The monthly rental consists of a fixed base rent.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
158 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONT’D)
The Group as lessor (Cont’d)
The Group has aggregate future minimum lease receivable under the above non-cancellable operating leases as at
the end of each reporting period as follows:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Less than one (1) year 1,193,238 3,320,836
One (1) to two (2) years 501,205 1,030,189
Two (2) to three (3) years 368,712 365,711
Three (3) to four (4) years 368,712 365,711
Four (4) to five (5) years 220,397 365,711
More than five (5) years - 225,823
2,652,264 5,673,981
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Group
At 31 December 2021
Goodwill
RM
Trademark
RM
Non-
contractual
customer
relationships
RM
Total
RM
Cost
At beginning of financial year 66,982,386 11,286,575 15,696,684 93,965,645
Translation differences (1,819,491) (645,841) (613,914) (3,079,246)
At end of financial year 65,162,895 10,640,734 15,082,770 90,886,399
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of financial year - (3,732) (796,044) (799,776)
Charge for the financial year - (887) (789,309) (790,196)
Translation differences - (141) 66,438 66,297
At end of financial year - (4,760) (1,518,915) (1,523,675)
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning of financial year - - - -
Impairment (1,002,169) - - (1,002,169)
At end of financial year (1,002,169) - - (1,002,169)
Net carrying amount 64,160,726 10,635,974 13,563,855 88,360,555
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 159
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONT’D)
Group
At 31 December 2020
Goodwill
RM
Trademark
RM
Non-
contractual
customer
relationships
RM
Total
RM
Cost
At beginning of financial year 11,944,983 13,159 - 11,958,142
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) 47,699,568 10,228,079 14,791,234 72,718,881
Translation differences 7,337,835 1,045,337 905,450 9,288,622
At end of financial year 66,982,386 11,286,575 15,696,684 93,965,645
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of financial year - (2,923) - (2,923)
Charge for the financial year - (903) (772,514) (773,417)
Translation differences - 94 (23,530) (23,436)
At end of financial year - (3,732) (796,044) (799,776)
Net carrying amount 66,982,386 11,282,843 14,900,640 93,165,869
(a) Goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives has been allocated to the identified cash generating
units (“CGU”) according to relevant operating segments based on the geographical location of customers as
follows:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Goodwill
Germany 49,398,045 51,777,727
Indonesia 8,392,458 8,094,240
United States 6,370,223 7,110,419
64,160,726 66,982,386
Trademark
Germany 10,627,344 11,273,660
74,788,070 78,256,046
(b) For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating divisions, which represent
the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
160 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONT’D)
(c) The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using cash flow
projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period with various inputs,
assumptions and terminal value. The following key assumptions are used to generate the financial budgets:
Group
2021
%
2020
%
Sales growth rates
Germany 3 3
Indonesia 1 1
United States 2 2
Pre-tax discount rate
Germany 10.4 10.6
Indonesia 18.1 10.3
United States 8.3 9.1
Germany and Indonesia CGUs
Based on the annual impairment testing undertaken by the Group, no impairment losses were required for the
carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives as at 31 December 2021 as their
recoverable amounts were in excess of their carrying amounts.
United States CGU
Impairment loss of RM1,002,169 (2020: nil) was recognised to reduce the carrying amount to their recoverable
amount due to decline in operations. The impairment loss was allocated fully to goodwill, and is recorded in
the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the Group.
Management is not aware of any reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the
carrying amount of the United States CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
(d) The calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the following assumptions:
(i) Sales growth rate
The forecasted sale growth rate has considered business past performance and management’s
expectations of market development.
(ii) Pre-tax discount rate
Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU. This is the
benchmark used by management to assess the operating performance of the CGUs.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 161
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
At cost
Unquoted equity shares
At beginning of financial year 79,828,114 73,588,114
Additions (Note 11(d)) - 6,240,000
At end of financial year 79,828,114 79,828,114
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning/end of financial year (4,870,001) (4,870,001)
Unquoted equity shares, at cost 74,958,113 74,958,113
Equity loan 52,274,417 52,274,417
127,232,530 127,232,530
(a) Equity loan
Equity loans to subsidiaries, which are unsecured, interest-free and the subsidiary has the unconditional right
to avoid settlement of the loan in cash, and are considered to be part of the investments of the Company in
providing the subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.
Impairment for equity loans to subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using
the forward looking expected credit loss model.
No expected credit loss is recognised arising from equity loans to subsidiaries of the Company as it is negligible.
The Directors of the Company have reassessed the nature of the amounts owing by subsidiaries and determined
that an outstanding balance amounting to RM52,274,417 (2020: RM52,274,417) shall constitute an equity loan
to subsidiaries as these amounts are unsecured, interest free and settlement is neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future and are considered to be part of the investment of the Company providing the
subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
162 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest
in equity
Principal activities
2021 2020
% %
Guan Chong Cocoa
Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.#
Malaysia 100 100 Production of cocoa-derived food
ingredients.
Guan Chong Trading Sdn.
Bhd.#
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant.
GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture, marketing and promotion
of cocoa related products.
GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd. (“GCBCM”)#
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture of cocoa cake, cocoa butter,
cocoa powder, cocoa mass and other
related cocoa products.
GCB America, Inc (“GCBA”)* United States of
America
100 100 Investment holding.
Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding.
GCB Oversea Holdings
Corporation (“GCBOHC”)^
Federal Territory
of Labuan,
Malaysia
100 100 Investment holding.
(i) Subsidiaries of GCBOHC
GCB Cacao GmbH* Germany 100 100 Dormant.
GCB Cocoa Singapore
Pte. Ltd. (“GCBCS”)#
Singapore 100 100 Trading of cocoa beans, cocoa-derived
food ingredients and cocoa products.
(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS
PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia^
Indonesia 90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
Manufacture of cocoa butter, cocoa cake
and cocoa liquor.
PT GCB Cocoa
Indonesia^
Indonesia 90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
Trading of cocoa products.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 163
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest
in equity
Principal activities
2021 2020
% %
(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS (Cont’d)
GCB Cocoa Cote
D’Ivoire#
Ivory Coast 100 100 Processing of cocoa into semi- finished
and finished products.
Schokinag
Holding GmbH
(“SCHOKINAG”)#
Germany 100 100 Investment holding.
GCB Cocoa UK Limited
(“GCBCUK”)^
United
Kingdom
100 100 Manufacturing of cocoa related products
and providing value-added services for
cocoa products.
GCB Cocoa Trading
Cote D’Ivoire
(“GCBCTI”)***
Ivory Coast 100 - Dormant.
GCB Cocoa Europe
B.V. (“GCBCE”)***
Netherlands 100 - Trading of cocoa products.
(iii) Subsidiary of GCBA
Carlyle Cocoa Co.,
LLC*
United States of
America
100 100 Manufacture of cocoa ingredients.
(iv) Subsidiaries of SCHOKINAG
Schokinag Verwaltungs
GmbH (“SVG”)#
Germany 100 100 Property holding company.
Schokinag-
Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH (“SSIG”)#
Germany 100 100 Production and sales of chocolate
products.
# Audited by BDO, BDO Member Firms or BDO Alliance Firm.
^ Audited by firms other than BDO in Malaysia and BDO Member Firms.
* Not a legal requirement to be audited, consolidated based on unaudited management accounts.
** Indirect interest held through Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
*** Newly incorporated during the financial year, consolidated based on unaudited management accounts for the
financial period ended 31 December 2021.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
164 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(c) Acquisition of subsidiaries in the previous financial year ended 31 December 2020
(i) In previous financial year, GCBCS, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in Singapore, had
acquired 100% equity interest in SCHOKINAG for a total cash consideration of RM147,554,107 (equivalent
to EUR32,230,048). SCHOKINAG has 100% equity interest in SVG and SSIG. Arising from the acquisition,
these companies have become indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and the effects on cash flows arising from
the acquisitions in financial year 2020 were as follows:
Note
At date of
acquisition
RM
Property, plant and equipment 7 146,326,294
Intangible assets (trademark and non-contractual customer relationships) 10 25,019,313
Other investment 13 818,026
Inventories 55,904,397
Trade and other receivables 124,317,402
Cash and bank balances 13,306,346
Trade and other payables (90,654,744)
Borrowings (113,390,506)
Lease liabilities 8 (25,446,452)
Current tax liabilities (5,967,804)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (30,377,733)
Total identified net assets 99,854,539
Goodwill 10 47,699,568
Purchase consideration 147,554,107
Cash and cash equivalents of the subsidiaries acquired (13,306,346)
Net cash outflow of the Group on acquisition 134,247,761
The goodwill recognised on the acquisition of SCHOKINAG was attributable mainly to the skills and
technical talents of the acquired business’s work force and the synergies expected to be achieved from
integrating the company into the Group’s existing business.
(ii) In the previous financial year, the Group has acquired 100% equity interest in newly incorporated GCBCUK
for total cash consideration of RM27,452,000 (equivalent to GBP5,000,000). Upon incorporation, GCBCUK
become indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
(d) In the previous financial year, the Company subscribed for an additional 6,240,000 ordinary shares in a wholly
owned subsidiary, GCBCM for a total cash consideration of RM6,240,000. Consequently, there was no change
in the effective equity interest held by the Company in GCBCM.
(e) During the financial year, the Group has acquired 100% equity interest in newly incorporated GCBCTI and
GCBCE for total cash consideration of RM1,505,206 (equivalent to CFA200,066,885) and RM49,351 (equivalent
to EUR10,000) respectively. Upon incorporation, GCBCTI and GCBCE become wholly owned subsidiaries of
the Group.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 165
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(f) The Group does not have any subsidiary that has non-controlling interests, which is individually material to the
Group for both financial years ended 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020.
12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Unquoted equity shares, at cost 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000
Share of post-acquisition reserves, net of
dividends received (448,333) (780,053) - -
4,551,667 4,219,947 5,000,000 5,000,000
(a) The details of the associates are as follows:
Name of Company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest
in equity
Principal activities
2021 2020
% %
SMC Food21 Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd. (“SMC”)^
Malaysia 20 20 Production of blended cocoa-derived
food ingredients.
^ Audited by firms other than BDO in Malaysia and BDO Member Firms.
(b) The Group does not have any associate, which is individually material to the Group for both financial years
ended 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020.
(c) In the previous financial year, the Company had disposed whole of its 27.75% equity interest in Fuji Global
Chocolate (M) Sdn. Bhd. (“FGC”), for a total cash consideration of RM32,000,000. Upon the completion of
disposal, FGC is no longer an associate of the Company.
Details of the disposal in financial year 2020 were as follows:
At date of disposal
Group
RM
Company
RM
Cost of investment 2,283,670 2,283,670
Share of post-acquisition reserves 1,824,146 -
Share of interest in an associate 4,107,816 2,283,670
Consideration received (32,000,000) (32,000,000)
Gain on disposal of an associate (27,892,184) (29,716,330)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
166 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (CONT’D)
(d) The Group recognised its share of results in SMC based on unaudited financial statements as at 31 December
2021. The summarised unaudited financial information for the associate is as follows:
SMC FGC
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Assets and liabilities
Current assets 42,740,964 38,514,433 N/A N/A
Non-current assets 59,139,161 59,609,025 N/A N/A
Total assets 101,880,125 98,123,458 N/A N/A
Current liabilities 70,609,872 66,529,676 N/A N/A
Non-current liabilities 11,540,293 13,522,422 N/A N/A
Total liabilities 82,150,165 80,052,098 N/A N/A
Results
Revenue 147,871,917 185,585,799 N/A 8,646,858
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year 2,053,055 2,160,200 N/A (344,161)
Other comprehensive loss (394,455) (184,370) N/A -
1,658,600 1,975,830 N/A (344,161)
(e) The reconciliation of net assets of the associates to the carrying amount of the investments in associates are as
follows:
SMC FGC
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Share of net assets of the Group 3,945,992 3,614,272 N/A N/A
Goodwill 605,675 605,675 N/A N/A
Carrying amount in the statements of
financial position 4,551,667 4,219,947 N/A N/A
Share of results for the financial year/
disposal date
Share of profit/(loss) 410,611 432,040 N/A (95,505)
Share of other comprehensive loss (78,891) (36,874) N/A -
Share of total comprehensive income/
(loss) 331,720 395,166 N/A (95,505)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 167
13. OTHER INVESTMENT
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
At fair value through profit or loss
Equity securities:
- Unquoted shares outside Malaysia - -
(a) The following table shows a reconciliation of Level 3 fair values of other investments:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Balance as at 1 January - -
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) - 818,026
Translation differences - 36,448
Fair value changes - (854,474)
Balance as at 31 December - -
(b) Unquoted ordinary shares of the Group are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Fair value of
unquoted ordinary shares of the Group are estimated based on adjusted net asset method.
(c) Sensitivity analysis for investments in unquoted shares is not material to the Group.
(d) There is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
14. INVENTORIES
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
At cost
Raw materials 1,328,301,185 853,254,121
Work-in-progress 12,837,741 17,557,877
Finished goods 416,373,727 338,611,061
Packaging materials 7,536,232 6,764,641
Stores and supplies 20,832,243 22,859,867
1,785,881,128 1,239,047,567
At net realisable value
Finished goods 85,549,985 59,280,479
Work-in-progress 4,026,396 3,735,782
1,875,457,509 1,302,063,828
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
168 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
14. INVENTORIES (CONT’D)
(a) During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM3,318,460,313
(2020: RM3,086,065,371).
(b) During the financial year, the Group had written down inventories of RM13,905,591 (2020: RM3,180,967) in cost
of sales.
(c) Inventories with carrying amounts of RM69,908,925 (2020: RM59,295,977) are held as security by way of
floating charge for the Group’s banking facilities as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Non-current
Other receivables
Amounts owing by:
- subsidiaries (interest bearing) - - 451,609,203 425,019,713
- subsidiaries (non-interest bearing) - - 7,709,518 2,513,780
- - 459,318,721 427,533,493
Current
Trade receivables
Third parties 385,264,881 334,734,282 - -
Amounts owing by:
- an associate 1,234,337 - - -
- a related party 521,312 1,619,025 - -
- subsidiaries - - 45,000 50,072
387,020,530 336,353,307 45,000 50,072
Less: Allowance for impairment losses (23,697,767) (21,588,187) - (35,072)
363,322,763 314,765,120 45,000 15,000
Other receivables
Sundry receivables 54,252,245 80,540,170 - -
Amounts owing by:
- a related party 190,253 190,253 - -
- a subsidiary (dividend receivable) - - 10,000,000 15,300,000
- subsidiaries (non-interest bearing) - - 11,963,951 2,505,305
54,442,498 80,730,423 21,963,951 17,805,305
Less: Allowance for impairment losses (3,583,304) (3,455,974) - -
50,859,194 77,274,449 21,963,951 17,805,305
Subtotal 414,181,957 392,039,569 22,008,951 17,820,305
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 169
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Deposits and prepayments
Deposits 7,047,891 12,035,403 5,600 4,600
Prepayments 10,413,023 16,254,049 - -
17,460,914 28,289,452 5,600 4,600
431,642,871 420,329,021 22,014,551 17,824,905
Grand total 431,642,871 420,329,021 481,333,272 445,358,398
(a) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group ranged from
30 days to 120 days (2020: 30 days to 120 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which
represent their fair value on initial recognition.
Certain comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation as disclosed in Note 40
to the financial statements.
(b) Non-current and non-trade amounts owing by subsidiaries amounted to RM451,609,203 (2020: RM425,019,713)
are unsecured and analysed as follows:
(i) RM150,193,229 (2020: RM130,013,630) that bears interest at rate of 3.9% (2020: 3.9%) per annum and
receivable on 31 December 2025.
(ii) RM18,390,000 (2020: RM18,390,000) that bears interest at rate of 3.9% (2020: 3.9%) per annum and
receivable on 31 December 2027.
(iii) RM283,025,974 (2020: RM276,616,083) that bears interest at rate of 3.1% (2020: 3.1%) per annum and
receivable on 31 December 2027.
(c) Current and non-trade amounts owing by subsidiaries are unsecured, interest-free and receivable within the
next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.
(d) The currency exposure profile of trade and other receivables (excluding deposits and prepayments) is as follows:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
United States Dollar 132,013,892 197,651,341 293,061,735 276,838,345
British Pound 131,566,803 116,292,008 - -
Euro 53,269,419 33,786,101 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 39,519,127 16,423,416 - -
Chinese Yuan 26,547,246 7,002,355 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 13,540,299 17,945,061 188,265,937 168,515,453
Singapore Dollar 112,788 208,028 - -
Others 17,612,383 2,731,259 - -
414,181,957 392,039,569 481,327,672 445,353,798
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
170 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(e) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based
on the simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses (“ECL”). Loss rates are based on actual credit
loss experience over past years.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking
information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of customers to settle the receivables and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade
receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
 
(f) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM
Lifetime
ECL
RM
Carrying
amount
RM
As at 31 December 2021
Not past due 235,899,553 (68,344) 235,831,209
Past due:
1 to 30 days 81,259,926 (88,237) 81,171,689
31 to 60 days 26,777,673 (230,747) 26,546,926
61 to 90 days 12,755,154 (225,296) 12,529,858
Over 90 days 8,405,888 (1,162,807) 7,243,081
129,198,641 (1,707,087) 127,491,554
Individual assessment 21,922,336 (21,922,336) -
387,020,530 (23,697,767) 363,322,763
As at 31 December 2020
Not past due 213,740,471 (116,082) 213,624,389
Past due:
1 to 30 days 76,058,759 (101,612) 75,957,147
31 to 60 days 22,594,713 (140,986) 22,453,727
61 to 90 days 744,429 - 744,429
Over 90 days 5,036,029 (3,146,897) 1,889,132
104,433,930 (3,389,495) 101,044,435
Individual assessment 18,178,906 (18,082,610) 96,296
336,353,307 (21,588,187) 314,765,120
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 171
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(f) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables of the Group and of the Company are as follows: (Cont’d)
Company
Gross
carrying
amount
RM
Lifetime
ECL
RM
Carrying
amount
RM
As at 31 December 2021
Not past due 45,000 - 45,000
Individual assessment - - -
45,000 - 45,000
As at 31 December 2020
Not past due 15,000 - 15,000
Individual assessment 35,072 (35,072) -
50,072 (35,072) 15,000
During the financial year, the Group and the Company did not renegotiate the terms of any trade receivables.
These receivables are not secured by any collateral.
(g) Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the
forward looking expected credit loss model.
The Group and the Company defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the
receivables, changes to contractual terms, payment delays and past due information.
(h) Trade and other receivables that are past due and impaired at the end of the reporting period and the
reconciliation of movements in allowance for impairment accounts is as follows:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Trade receivables
At 1 January 21,588,187 27,289,250 35,072 265,072
Charge for the financial year 4,247,440 3,822,831 - -
Reversal (2,336,176) (6,350,373) (35,072) (230,000)
Written off - (3,019,752) - -
Translation differences 198,316 (153,769) - -
At 31 December 23,697,767 21,588,187 - 35,072
Other receivables (individually impaired)
At 1 January 3,455,974 3,533,638 - -
Charge for the financial year - - - -
Reversal - (12,603) - -
Translation differences 127,330 (65,061) - -
At 31 December 3,583,304 3,455,974 - -
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
172 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(i) The Group sold certain trade receivables to a financial institution with non-recourse conditions for cash
proceeds. These trade receivables have been derecognised from the statements of financial position because
the Group transferred substantially all the risks and rewards – primarily credit risk. Consequently, comparatives
have also been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.
The following information shows the carrying amount of trade receivables at the reporting date that have been
sold with non-recourse arrangement and derecognised from trade receivables:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Carrying amount of trade receivables sold with non-recourse arrangement 89,964,732 88,747,156
(j) Included in other receivables of the Group is an amount due from brokers of RM8,099,059 (2020: RM68,937,609)
includes margin accounts which represents cash deposits held with brokers as collateral against open future
contracts.
(k) Information on financial risks of trade and other receivables is disclosed in Note 37 to the financial statements.
16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Group
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long/(short)
RM
Assets
RM
Liabilities
RM
2021
Group
Commodity futures contracts (Note a) 851,550,764 27,867,682 (11,815,905)
Commodity option contracts (Note a) (228,497,431) 307,614 (1,001,716)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 286,838,465 - (10,605,177)
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c) 708,350,724 5,288,387 (3,854,710)
1,618,242,522 33,463,683 (27,277,508)
2020
Group
Commodity futures contracts (Note a) (754,697,723) 47,589,150 (70,950,005)
Commodity option contracts (Note a) 56,757,615 1,264,785 (325,273)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 276,645,886 2,623,803 -
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c) 166,177,363 1,206,767 (3,667,130)
Foreign currency option contracts (Note c) 2,188,140 - (190,630)
(252,928,719) 52,684,505 (75,133,038)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 173
16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONT’D)
Company
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long/(short)
RM
Assets
RM
Liabilities
RM
2021
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 286,838,465 - (10,605,177)
2020
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 276,645,886 2,623,803 -
(a) Commodity futures or option contracts
The Group uses commodity futures contracts and commodity options contracts to manage open sales and
purchase commitments and movements in cocoa bean prices in the respective commodity markets. These
contracts are not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with
fair value changes exposure.
(b) Cross currency swap contracts
The cross currency swap contracts of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
(i) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM200,000,000 liability to a fixed rate
of USD49,140,049 liability (“USDRM CCS1”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liability in respect of the USDRM
CCS1 as at the end of the financial year is RM7,638,002 (2020: derivative asset of RM1,843,162); and
 
(ii) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM80,000,000 liability to a fixed rate
of USD19,728,730 liability (“USDRM CCS2”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liability in respect of the USDRM
CCS2 as at the end of the financial year is RM2,967,175 (2020: derivative asset of RM780,641).
The Group entered into cross currency swap contracts to serve as a net investment hedge against the Group’s
USD denominated assets arising from its investments in foreign subsidiaries whose net assets are exposed to
currency translation risks and which are held for long term investment purposes.
(c) Foreign currency forward or option contracts
The Group uses forward currency contracts and forward currency option contracts to hedge the Group’s
sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies for which firm commitments existed at the reporting
period. The forward currency contracts have maturity dates that coincide with the expected occurrence of
these transactions. The fair value of these components has been determined based on the difference between
the contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as applicable to a contract of similar amount and maturity
profile at the end of the reporting period.
As at the end of the reporting period, the settlements dates for foreign currency forward contracts range from
1 to 6 months (2020: 1 to 6 months).
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
174 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
16. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONT’D)
(d) During the financial year, the Group recognised a total fair value gain of RM28,634,708 (2020: fair value loss
of RM25,240,842) and the Company recognised a total fair value loss of RM13,228,980 (2020: fair value gain
of RM2,623,803) arising from fair value changes of derivative financial instruments. The fair value changes are
attributable to changes in foreign exchange spot and forward rates. The method and assumptions applied in
determining the fair value of derivatives are disclosed in Note 36(d) to the financial statements.
(e) The currency exposure profile of derivative financial assets/liabilities is as follows:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Derivative financial assets
United States Dollar 22,490,152 48,188,298 - 2,623,803
British Pound 10,555,111 4,496,207 - -
Others 2,852 - - -
33,048,115 52,684,505 - 2,623,803
Derivative financial liabilities
United States Dollar (23,768,195) (70,611,423) (10,605,177) -
British Pound (3,065,036) (4,519,036) - -
Others (28,709) (2,579) - -
(26,861,940) (75,133,038) (10,605,177) -
(f) Information on financial risks of derivative financial assets/liabilities is disclosed in Note 37 to the financial
statements.
17. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Cash and bank balances 52,892,082 58,338,255 616,126 892,734
Deposits with licensed banks 20,916,631 19,872,275 5,893,800 5,773,019
73,808,713 78,210,530 6,509,926 6,665,753
(a) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group have maturity period ranging from six months to twelve months,
except for deposits pledged to licensed banks which have maturity period of twelve months (2020: twelve
months).
(b) As at the end of reporting period, the deposits placed with licensed banks of the Group amounting to
RM13,541,186 (2020: RM12,900,013) has been charged to financial institutions as security for credit facilities
granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 175
17. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONT’D)
(c) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
United States Dollar 40,072,065 25,476,513 31,035 31,885
Ringgit Malaysia 11,590,340 12,718,019 6,478,891 6,633,868
British Pound 6,269,194 20,122,884 - -
Euro 5,463,112 13,921,678 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 5,331,172 3,412,927 - -
Singapore Dollar 1,112,491 668,301 - -
Others 3,970,339 1,890,208 - -
73,808,713 78,210,530 6,509,926 6,665,753
(d) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the end
of the reporting period:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Cash and bank balances 52,892,082 58,338,255 616,126 892,734
Deposits with licensed banks 20,916,631 19,872,275 5,893,800 5,773,019
73,808,713 78,210,530 6,509,926 6,665,753
Less: Deposits pledged (13,541,186) (12,900,013) - -
Less: Deposits tenure more than three
			(3) months (7,375,445) (6,972,262) (5,893,800) (5,773,019)
52,892,082 58,338,255 616,126 892,734
(e) No expected credit losses are recognised arising from the deposits with financial institutions because the
probability of default by these financial institutions are negligible.
(f) Information on financial risks of cash and bank balances is disclosed in Note 37 to the financial statements.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
176 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
18. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
2021 2020
Number
of shares RM
Number
of shares RM
Issued and fully paid up ordinary shares
with no par value
At beginning of financial year 1,034,307,898 263,235,660 1,008,350,870 220,406,564
Issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to:
- Warrant exercised 20,498,885 33,823,160 25,957,028 42,829,096
At end of financial year 1,054,806,783 297,058,820 1,034,307,898 263,235,660
(a) During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company was increased
from 1,034,307,898 to 1,054,806,783 ordinary shares by way of issuance of 20,498,885 new ordinary shares
pursuant to 20,498,885 warrants exercised at an exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
(b) In the previous financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company was increased
from 1,008,350,870 to 1,034,307,898 ordinary shares by way of issuance of 25,957,028 new ordinary shares
pursuant to 25,957,028 warrants exercised at an exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
(c) The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are
entitled to one (1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with
regard to the residual assets of the Company.
 
19. TREASURY SHARES
Group and Company
2021 2020
Number
of shares RM
Number
of shares RM
Ordinary shares
At beginning of financial year 400,000 720,042 195,200 225,702
Purchase of treasury shares - - 204,800 494,340
At end of financial year 400,000 720,042 400,000 720,042
The shareholders of the Company have approved the Company’s plan to repurchase up to 10% of the issued and
paid-up share capital of the Company (“Share Buy Back”). The Directors of the Company are committed to enhance
the value of the Company to its shareholders and believe that the Share Buy Back can be applied in the best interests
of the Company and its shareholders.
In the previous financial year, the Company acquired 204,800 shares in the Company from the open market on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 177
20. RESERVES
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Non-distributable
Foreign currency translation reserve 52,333,008 47,099,030 - -
Hedging reserve (6,838,465) 2,428,506 - -
Distributable
Retained earnings 1,000,513,508 876,866,023 767,993 7,507,506
1,046,008,051 926,393,559 767,993 7,507,506
(a) The movements in each category of reserves are disclosed in the statements of changes in equity.
(b) Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from
the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from
that of the presentation currency of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from
monetary items, which form part of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary
item is denominated in either the functional currency of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
 
(c) Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve arising from changes in the fair value relating to the effective portion on the hedge of net
investments in foreign operations.
(d) Warrants
On 12 November 2019, the Company issued 168,022,058 free warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant for every
three (3) existing ordinary shares held in the Company. The warrants were listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities on 12 November 2019.
The warrant issued are constituted by a Deed Poll dated 14 October 2019.
The salient features of the warrants are as follows:
(i) Each warrants entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe for one
new ordinary shares in the Company at an exercise price of RM1.65.
(ii) The warrants shall be exercisable at any time within the period commencing from and inclusive the date
of issue of the warrants and ending on the date immediately preceding the third (3rd) anniversary of the
date of issue, or if such day is not a Market day, then it shall be the Market Day immediately preceding the
said non-Market Day.
(iii) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the warrants shall, upon issue and
allotment, be of the same class and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares, save
and except that such new ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/
or other distributions, at the entitlement date of which is prior to the date of the allotment of these new
ordinary shares.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
178 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
20. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(d) Warrants (Cont’d)
The salient features of the warrants are as follows: (Cont’d)
(iv) Any warrants not exercised during the exercise period will lapse and cease to be valid.
(v) Movements in the Warrants since the listing and quotation thereof are as follows:
Number
of Warrants
As of 12 November 2019 168,022,058
Exercised in financial year 2019 (17,966)
Exercised in financial year 2020 (25,957,028)
Exercised in financial year 2021 (20,498,885)
As of 31 December 2021 121,548,179
21. BORROWINGS
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Short term borrowings
Secured:
Revolving credits 114,805,648 54,812,593 - -
Term loans 27,127,340 20,162,832 - -
Trade loans 758,530,467 531,062,297 - -
900,463,455 606,037,722 - -
Long term borrowings
Secured:
Term loans 91,826,113 128,935,832 - -
Unsecured:
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b)) 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000
391,826,113 428,935,832 300,000,000 300,000,000
Total borrowings
Revolving credits 114,805,648 54,812,593 - -
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b)) 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000
Term loans 118,953,453 149,098,664 - -
Trade loans 758,530,467 531,062,297 - -
1,292,289,568 1,034,973,554 300,000,000 300,000,000
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 179
21. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(a) The revolving credits, term loans and trade loans of the Group are secured by:
(i) Corporate guarantee from the Company;
(ii) A legal charges over certain property, plant and equipment (Note 7(b)), and investment properties (Note
9(d)) of the Group;
(iii) A floating charge over a subsidiary’s inventories (Note 14(c));
(iv) A fixed and floating charge over a subsidiary’s assets;
(v) Deposits pledged with licensed banks of the Group (Note 17(b)); and
(vi) Negative pledge by certain subsidiaries.
(b) The Sukuk Wakalah are issued under Islamic medium term notes (“Sukuk Wakalah”) programme of up to
RM800,000,000 in nominal value under the Shariah principle of Wakalah Bi Al-Istithmar (“Sukuk Wakalah
Programme”). The Sukuk Wakalah Programme has a tenure of twenty (20) years from 3 December 2020. The
tenure of each issuance of Sukuk Wakalah shall be more than one (1) year and up to twenty (20) years, provided
that the Sukuk Wakalah matures on or prior to the expiry of the Sukuk Wakalah Programme.
The proceeds raised from the issuance of the Sukuk Wakalah shall be utilised to finance its general working
capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future financing and other
general corporate purposes and/or to provide advance via Shariah-compliant manner to its subsidiaries
for general working capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future
financing and other general corporate purposes.
On 3 December 2020, the Company completed an issuance of Sukuk Wakalah of RM300,000,000 in notional
value (“First Issuance”) with a tenure of seven (7) years from the date of issuance and due for repayment in
December 2027. The Sukuk Wakalah under the First Issuance bears a profit rate of 3.84% per annum and
payable semi-annually.
(c) The currency exposure profile of borrowings is as follows:
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
United States Dollar 548,455,935 554,402,528 - -
British Pound 350,590,916 67,139,503 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 301,781,767 302,193,201 300,000,000 300,000,000
Euro 91,460,950 111,238,322 - -
1,292,289,568 1,034,973,554 300,000,000 300,000,000
Certain comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
(d) Information on financial risks of borrowings and their remaining maturity is disclosed in Note 37 to the financial
statements.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
180 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS)
(a) The deferred tax assets and liabilities are made up of the following:
Group
2021
RM
2020
RM
Balance as at 1 January 72,497,654 44,250,656
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) - 30,377,733
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 28) 1,407,189 (4,127,906)
Recognised in other comprehensive income 33,231 (66,452)
Translation differences (580,322) 2,063,623
Balance as at 31 December 73,357,752 72,497,654
Reflected in the statements of financial position as follow:
Deferred tax liabilities 75,094,836 74,159,101
Deferred tax assets (1,737,084) (1,661,447)
Balance as at 31 December 73,357,752 72,497,654
(b) The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting
are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) of the Group
Property,
plant and
equipment
RM
Other
temporary
differences
RM
Total
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2021 80,844,103 (8,346,449) 72,497,654
Recognised in profit or loss 7,022,204 (5,615,015) 1,407,189
Recognised in other comprehensive income - 33,231 33,231
Translation differences (856,480) 276,158 (580,322)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 87,009,827 (13,652,075) 73,357,752
Balance as at 1 January 2020 47,176,694 (2,926,038) 44,250,656
Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 11(c)) 27,115,728 3,262,005 30,377,733
Recognised in profit or loss 4,537,347 (8,665,253) (4,127,906)
Recognised in other comprehensive income - (66,452) (66,452)
Translation differences 2,014,334 49,289 2,063,623
Balance as at 31 December 2020 80,844,103 (8,346,449) 72,497,654
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 181
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS) (CONT’D)
(c) The amount of temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised in the statements of
financial position are as follows:
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Unused tax losses
- No expiry date 6,901,000 - - -
- Expires by 31 December 2025 - 2,570,000 - 1,309,000
- Expires by 31 December 2028 2,408,000 - 1,268,000 -
Unabsorbed capital allowances
- No expiry date 5,165,000 - - -
14,474,000 2,570,000 1,268,000 1,309,000
Deferred tax assets of the Company and certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items
as it is not probable that taxable profits would be available against which the deductible temporary differences
could be utilised. The amount and availability of these items to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed
above are subject to the agreement of the respective local tax authorities.
23. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS
(a) Certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group in Indonesia operate an unfunded defined benefits retirement plan
required under the Labour Laws of that country in which they operate. The Group is required to pay their
employees termination, appreciation and compensation benefits in case of employment dismissal based on the
employees’ number of years of services provided.
(b) Under the plan, all of the eligible permanent employees of the certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group are
entitled to retirement benefits based on last drawn final salary and length of service attainment of the retirement
age of 55.
(c) The amounts recognised in the statements of financial position are determined as follows:
2021 2020
Group RM RM
Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,215,651 3,138,249
Analysed as follows:
Non-current liabilities 3,215,651 3,138,249
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
182 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
23. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS (CONT’D)
(d) The following table sets out the reconciliation of defined benefit plan:
2021 2020
Group RM RM
Balance as at 1 January 3,138,249 2,410,961
Current service costs 504,822 386,682
Interest costs 224,099 199,974
Past service costs - vested (526,790) -
Translation differences (38,244) (38,474)
Included in profit or loss 163,887 548,182
Remeasurement:
Effects of experience adjustment (153,620) (79,194)
Effects of changes in financial assumptions (261) 411,313
Translation differences 115,448 (80,142)
(38,433) 251,977
Benefits paid (48,052) (72,871)
Balance as at 31 December 3,215,651 3,138,249
(e) The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
Group
2021 2020
Retirement age 55 years 55 years
Discount rate 7.00% 7.00%
Expected rate of salary increases 8.00% 8.00%
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 183
23. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS (CONT’D)
(f) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if the significant actuarial assumptions
at the end of each reporting period changed by one hundred (100) basis points with all other variables held
constant:
Group
2021
Increase Decrease
RM RM
Discount rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation (354,129) 425,250
Current service cost (47,550) 56,571
Salary increment rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation 416,346 (353,792)
Current service cost 55,215 (47,343)
Group
2020
Increase Decrease
RM RM
Discount rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation (381,783) 460,967
Current service cost (50,518) 61,621
Salary increment rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation 451,692 (381,783)
Current service cost 60,377 (50,518)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
184 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
24. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Trade payables
Third parties 562,520,825 260,743,425 - -
Other payables
Other payables 45,131,716 25,400,962 - -
Accruals 63,520,744 61,019,241 1,379,841 1,272,182
Deposits received 1,467,791 1,521,532 - -
Dividend payable 10,544,068 15,508,618 10,544,068 15,508,618
Amounts owing to related parties 833 803 - -
Amount owing to a subsidiary - - 86,638 86,638
120,665,152 103,451,156 12,010,547 16,867,438
683,185,977 364,194,581 12,010,547 16,867,438
(a) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group ranged from
30 days to 60 days (2020: 30 days to 60 days).
(b) The currency exposure profile of trade and other payables are as follows:
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
United States Dollar 294,962,057 163,354,660 86,638 86,638
British Pound 202,617,604 44,506,758 - -
Euro 84,386,962 82,062,634 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 48,783,616 53,370,772 11,923,909 16,780,800
Singapore Dollar 17,469,546 13,784,263 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 10,596,870 4,166,665 - -
Others 24,369,322 2,948,829 - -
683,185,977 364,194,581 12,010,547 16,867,438
(c) Information on financial risks of trade and other payables is disclosed in Note 37 to the financial statements.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 185
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
2021 2020
RM RM
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
Approved but not contracted for 71,876,000 64,232,000
Contracted but not provided for 101,303,000 99,114,000
173,179,000 163,346,000
26. REVENUE
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contracts with customers
- Sale of goods 3,923,162,234 3,684,804,837 - -
Other revenue
- Dividend income from subsidiaries - - 25,000,000 15,300,000
- Interest income 135,158 179,965 14,832,236 3,313,468
- Management fees - - 60,000 60,000
3,923,297,392 3,684,984,802 39,892,236 18,673,468
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by primary geographical market, major
products and service lines and timing of revenue recognition.
Major product and service line/Timing of revenue recognition
Sales of goods/Transferred at point in time
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Germany Others Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM
31 December 2021 1,271,363,043 1,389,169,995 264,671,968 931,630,400 66,461,986 3,923,297,392
31 December 2020 1,269,978,226 1,421,297,651 140,736,422 789,286,096 63,686,407 3,684,984,802
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
186 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
27. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration
- statutory audit fees 910,818 737,388 93,500 78,000
- under provision in prior year 73,576 15,256 - -
- non-audit fees 44,337 5,000 5,000 5,000
Interest expense:
- bank commission 5,599,742 5,509,284 - -
- bank overdraft 1,425 73,531 - -
- hire purchase 3,806 - - -
- lease liabilities 1,487,777 1,072,754 - -
- receivable financing 833,755 764,304 - -
- revolving credit 89,337 200,591 - -
- term loans 4,170,188 3,711,083 - -
- trade loans 9,111,019 13,403,491 - -
- Sukuk Wakalah 11,520,000 883,726 11,520,000 883,726
32,817,049 25,618,764 11,520,000 883,726
And after crediting:
Bad debt recovered (17,705) (51,428) (1,614,928) -
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property plant and
equipment (2,748,422) 142,429 - -
Insurance claim income (7,352,890) (342,712) - -
Interest income (314,717) (461,930) - -
Net fair value realised loss/(gain) on
derivatives 134,449 (42,355,747) - -
Net unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign
exchange (190,342) (9,685,318) (10,053,742) 3,355,371
Net realised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange (5,021,303) 5,104,128 (2,403,659) 600
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 187
28. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Current tax expense
- Malaysia income tax 24,717,847 38,072,259 1,725,278 -
- Foreign income tax 17,356,761 11,303,560 - -
42,074,608 49,375,819 1,725,278 -
(Over)/Under provision in prior years
- Malaysia income tax (1,059,020) (849,963) 574,677 50,180
- Foreign income tax (727,485) 212,868 - -
(1,786,505) (637,095) 574,677 50,180
40,288,103 48,738,724 2,299,955 50,180
Deferred tax (Note 22)
- Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences 1,473,090 1,457,170 - -
- Relating to changes in tax rates - (4,704,809) - -
- Over provision in prior years (65,901) (880,267) - -
1,407,189 (4,127,906) - -
Real property gains tax 226,111 - - -
41,921,403 44,610,818 2,299,955 50,180
(a) The Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2020: 24%) of the estimated taxable
profits for the fiscal year. Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in those
respective jurisdictions.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
188 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
28. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
(b) The numerical reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the
applicable tax rates of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Profit before tax 196,759,858 267,319,853 26,872,062 42,986,929
Tax expense at the applicable tax rate of
24% (2020: 24%) 47,222,366 64,156,765 6,449,295 10,316,863
Tax effects in respect of:
Different tax rate in foreign subsidiaries (4,820,462) (5,973,650) - -
Effect of changes in tax rates on
deferred tax in foreign subsidiaries - (4,704,809) - -
Non-taxable income (7,292,334) (6,509,249) (10,027,243) (10,847,819)
Non-deductible expenses 9,931,492 5,272,659 5,312,980 544,766
Real property gains tax 226,111 - - -
Tax incentives (4,350,322) (6,094,642) - -
Deferred tax assets not recognised /
(Utilisation of deferred tax assets
previously not recognised) 2,856,958 (18,894) (9,754) (13,810)
43,773,809 46,128,180 1,725,278 -
(Over)/Under provision in prior years
- income tax (1,786,505) (637,095) 574,677 50,180
- deferred tax (65,901) (880,267) - -
41,921,403 44,610,818 2,299,955 50,180
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 189
28. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
(c) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group Before tax Tax effect After tax
2021 RM RM RM
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations (9,266,971) - (9,266,971)
Foreign currency translation 5,312,869 - 5,312,869
Share of other comprehensive income of an associate (78,891) - (78,891)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation 153,881 (33,231) 120,650
(3,879,112) (33,231) (3,912,343)
Group Before tax Tax effect After tax
2020 RM RM RM
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations 2,428,506 - 2,428,506
Foreign currency translation 8,073,128 - 8,073,128
Share of other comprehensive income of associates (36,874) - (36,874)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation (332,119) 66,452 (265,667)
10,132,641 66,452 10,199,093
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
190 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
29. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year.
Group
2021 2020
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (“RM”) 154,838,455 222,709,035
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,041,775,699 1,020,441,700
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 14.86 21.82
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year adjusted for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares. The adjusted weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue and issuable has been arrived at based on the assumption that
warrants are exercised at the beginning of the financial year.
Group
2021 2020
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (RM) 154,838,455 222,709,035
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,041,775,699 1,020,441,700
Effects of dilution due to warrants 50,680,866 58,638,646
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares applicable to
diluted earnings per share 1,092,456,565 1,079,080,346
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 14.17 20.64
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 191
30. DIVIDENDS
Group and Company
2021 2020
RM RM
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:
First interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 9 July 2021 10,383,851 -
Second interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 20
January 2022 10,544,068 -
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2020:
Final single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 4 June 2021 10,383,701 -
First interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 July
2020 - 10,223,778
Second interim single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on 20
January 2021 - 15,508,618
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2019:
Final single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 July 2020 - 10,223,778
31,311,620 35,956,174
The Directors proposed a final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2021, which is subject to the approval of members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The
financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by
the shareholders, will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the financial
year ending 31 December 2022.
31. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Group
2021 2020
RM RM
Salaries, wages and bonuses 134,968,363 125,155,473
Defined contribution plan 6,106,825 5,333,424
Social security contribution 9,663,383 8,368,688
Defined benefit plan 167,345 548,182
Other benefits 6,391,801 6,063,232
157,297,717 145,468,999
Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM25,240,632
(2020: RM24,074,136).
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
192 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
32. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Executive Directors of the Company:
- Fees 540,000 540,000 - -
- Other emoluments 19,586,384 18,557,445 - -
20,126,384 19,097,445 - -
Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind 109,653 121,298 - -
20,236,037 19,218,743 - -
Executive Directors of the subsidiaries: 5,654,248 5,516,691 - -
Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind 22,700 22,700 - -
5,676,948 5,539,391 - -
Total Executive Directors’ remuneration 25,912,985 24,758,134 - -
Non- Executive Directors of the Company:
- Fees 225,500 209,700 225,500 209,700
- Other emoluments 5,000 5,600 5,000 5,600
230,500 215,300 230,500 215,300
Total Directors’ remuneration including
benefits-in-kind 26,143,485 24,973,434 230,500 215,300
33. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Company
2021 2020
RM RM
Corporate guarantees – unsecured
Issued to banks for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries
- limit of guarantee 2,156,421,295 2,131,173,291
- amount utilised (997,963,804) (710,988,600)
The Directors are of the view that the chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees are
remote. Accordingly, the fair values of the above corporate guarantees given to subsidiaries for banking facilities are
negligible.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 193
34. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the
party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa,
or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related
parties could be individuals or other entities.
The Company has related party relationships with its direct, indirect subsidiaries, associates and ultimate holding
company. In addition, the Company also has related party relationships with the following party:
Related party Relationship with the Group
Enrich Mix Sdn. Bhd. A related party by virtue of the directorship of certain Directors
of the Company, Hia Cheng and Tay Hoe Lian.
(b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the
Company had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Subsidiaries
- Management fee income - - 60,000 60,000
- Interest income - - 14,697,078 3,133,503
Related parties
- Sale of goods (3,112,984) (8,291,127) - -
Associates
- Sale of goods (4,129,832) (1,493,137) - -
- Purchase of goods - 5,534 - -
Material balances of the above related parties are disclosed in Note 15 and Note 24 to the financial statements.
The related party transactions described above were carried out based on negotiated terms and conditions and
mutually agreed with the related parties.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
194 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
34. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONT’D)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director (whether executive or
otherwise) and any other members of key management personnel of the Group and the Company. Comparatives
have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
Group Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
RM RM RM RM
Directors’ remuneration including
estimated money value of benefits-in-
kind (Note 32) 26,143,485 24,973,434 230,500 215,300
Other key management personnel’s
remuneration 4,157,002 3,989,150 - -
30,300,487 28,962,584 230,500 215,300
35. OPERATING SEGMENTS
Guan Chong Berhad and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in investment holding, manufacturing, distributing
and trading in cocoa butter, cocoa cake, cocoa powder and cocoa-derived food ingredients.
Guan Chong Berhad has arrived at four (4) reportable segments that are Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Germany.
Other operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments comprise operations related to investment
holding and provision of management services.
The accounting policies of operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies.
Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and conditions and is eliminated
on the consolidated financial statements. These policies have been applied constantly throughout the current and
previous financial years.
The respective subsidiaries’ chief operating decision maker monitors the operating results of its business units
separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment
performance is evaluated based on segment profit or loss before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation.
Segment assets
The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total assets are based on all assets
allocated to each reportable segment other than deferred income tax assets and tax recoverable.
Segment liabilities
The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total liabilities are based on all liabilities
allocated to each reportable segment other than income tax liabilities and borrowings.
Certain comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 195
35. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments:
2021
Malaysia
RM
Singapore
RM
Indonesia
RM
Germany
RM
Others
RM
Eliminations
RM
Consolidated
RM
Revenue
Total external revenue 1,271,363,043 1,389,169,995 264,671,968 931,630,400 66,461,986 - 3,923,297,392
Inter-segment revenue 1,894,921,636 3,201,676,611 1,095,564,553 24,077 57,034,108 (6,249,220,985) -
Total revenue 3,166,284,679 4,590,846,606 1,360,236,521 931,654,477 123,496,094 (6,249,220,985) 3,923,297,392
Segment results 156,070,156 83,564,974 31,053,761 33,024,743 28,036,378 (39,154,104) 292,595,908
Interest income 143,776 60,078 110,244 578 41 - 314,717
Finance cost (19,607,834) (12,842,543) (373,361) (2,644,716) (12,633,423) 15,284,828 (32,817,049)
Depreciation and amortisation (20,325,949) (624,153) (16,775,896) (21,011,340) (4,596,380) - (63,333,718)
Segment profit before tax 196,759,858
Tax expense (41,921,403)
Profit for the financial year 154,838,455
Segment assets 1,569,348,562 313,648,213 909,078,406 300,697,726 392,291,272 - 3,485,064,179
Current tax assets 8,670,990
Deferred tax assets 1,737,084
Total assets 3,495,472,253
Segment liabilities 82,185,126 441,964,224 48,401,695 81,506,029 59,622,062 - 713,679,136
Current tax liabilities 13,026,474
Deferred tax liabilities 75,094,836
Borrowings 1,292,289,568
Lease liabilities 59,035,410
Total liabilities 2,153,125,424
Other information:
Capital expenditure 39,807,426 808,475 16,667,891 13,299,325 103,728,344 - 174,311,461
Net fair value (gain)/loss on
derivatives (4,481,497) (37,766,801) - 384,610 13,228,980 - (28,634,708)
Non-cash expenses/(income)
(other than depreciation and
amortisation) 10,825,567 8,750,056 1,501,290 3,137,804 (10,263,516) - 13,951,201
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
196 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
35. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments: (Cont’d)
2020
Malaysia
RM
Singapore
RM
Indonesia
RM
Germany
RM
Others
RM
Eliminations
RM
Consolidated
RM
Revenue
Total external revenue 1,269,978,226 1,421,297,651 140,736,422 789,286,096 63,686,407 - 3,684,984,802
Inter-segment revenue 1,922,128,626 2,820,040,975 1,171,898,946 - 18,493,503 (5,932,562,050) -
Total revenue 3,192,106,852 4,241,338,626 1,312,635,368 789,286,096 82,179,910 (5,932,562,050) 3,684,984,802
Segment results 200,350,280 84,159,457 27,664,569 14,984,959 45,349,938 (23,236,585) 349,272,618
Interest income 85,749 237,754 138,345 82 - - 461,930
Finance cost (17,251,524) (7,581,452) (254,634) (1,765,954) (1,898,703) 3,133,503 (25,618,764)
Depreciation and amortisation (16,921,408) (474,425) (16,457,654) (19,181,631) (3,760,813) - (56,795,931)
Segment profit before tax 267,319,853
Tax expense (44,610,818)
Profit for the financial year 222,709,035
Segment assets 1,197,966,396 369,002,963 612,812,967 369,589,049 267,186,731 - 2,816,558,106
Current tax assets 8,151,799
Deferred tax assets 1,661,447
Total assets 2,826,371,352
Segment liabilities 52,530,276 247,785,969 37,624,168 81,002,927 23,522,528 - 442,465,868
Current tax liabilities 26,739,047
Deferred tax liabilities 74,159,101
Borrowings 1,034,973,554
Lease liabilities 59,124,605
Total liabilities 1,637,462,175
Other information:
Capital expenditure 48,139,484 10,902 12,041,304 6,822,042 145,446,132 - 212,459,864
Net fair value (gain)/loss on
derivatives (644,629) 28,725,658 - (216,384) (2,623,803) - 25,240,842
Non-cash (income)/expenses
(other than depreciation and
amortisation) (10,466,143) (6,834,502) 4,144,620 1,979,498 (24,597,932) - (35,774,459)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 197
35. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
Major customer
The following is major customer with revenue equal to or more than 10% of Group’s total revenue:
Revenue Segment
2021 2020
RM RM
Customer A 378,019,496 383,436,952 Malaysia and Singapore
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group would be able to maintain an optimal
capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholders’ value. To achieve this objective,
the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic conditions, such as
adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory,
if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group includes within net
debt, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities from financial institutions less cash and bank balances. Capital
includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
As it is common in the cocoa industry for manufacturers or processors to carry cocoa beans inventory that
are sufficient to mitigate the impact of seasonality and varieties of crops, and normally the bean inventory is
financed through trade finance facilities. The interest cost of this is recouped and imputed through cocoa
product pricing. In order to reflect better Group’s gearing position, the net debt is adjusted to exclude trade
finance facilities which are used to finance cocoa bean or raw material. There was no change in the Group’s
approach to capital management during the reporting period.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period was as follows:
Group
2021 2020
RM RM
Borrowings (Note 21) 1,292,289,568 1,034,973,554
Lease liabilities owing to financial instituitions (Note 8) 9,994,856 13,663,055
Less: Cash and bank balances (Note 17) (73,808,713) (78,210,530)
Net debt 1,228,475,711 970,426,079
Total equity 1,342,346,829 1,188,909,177
Debt-to-equity ratio (time) 0.92 0.82
The Group is not subject to any other externally imposed capital requirements
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
198 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
2021 2020
Group RM RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets 33,463,683 52,684,505
Equity investment - -
33,463,683 52,684,505
Amortised cost
Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits and prepayments 414,181,957 392,039,569
Cash and bank balances 73,808,713 78,210,530
487,990,670 470,250,099
521,454,353 522,934,604
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities 27,277,508 75,133,038
Amortised cost
Trade and other payables 683,185,977 364,194,581
Borrowings 1,292,289,568 1,034,973,554
Lease liabilities 59,035,410 59,124,605
2,034,510,955 1,458,292,740
2,061,788,463 1,533,425,778
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 199
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial instruments (Cont’d)
Categories of financial instruments (Cont’d)
2021 2020
Company RM RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets - 2,623,803
Amortised cost
Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits 481,327,672 445,353,798
Cash and bank balances 6,509,926 6,665,753
487,837,598 452,019,551
487,837,598 454,643,354
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities 10,605,177 -
Amortised cost
Trade and other payables 12,010,547 16,867,438
Borrowings 300,000,000 300,000,000
312,010,547 316,867,438
322,615,724 316,867,438
(c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
(i) Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are at reasonable
approximation of fair value.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities, such as trade and other receivables, trade
and other payables and floating rate borrowings, are reasonable approximation of fair values, either due
to their short-term nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are re-priced to market interest
rates on or near the end of the reporting period.
The carrying amounts of the current position of borrowings are reasonable approximation of fair values
due to the insignificant impact of discounting.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
200 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value (Cont’d)
(ii) Derivatives
The fair values of commodity futures contracts are determined based on the quoted closing price on the
relevant commodity markets at the end of the reporting period.
The fair value of a forward foreign exchange contract is the amount that would be payable or receivable
upon termination of the outstanding position arising and is determined by reference to the difference
between the contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as at the end of each reporting period applied
to a contract of similar amount and maturity profile.
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is the amount that would be payable or receivable
upon termination of the position at the end of each reporting period, and is calculated as the difference
between the present value of the estimated future cash flows at the contracted rate compared to that
calculated at the spot rate as at the end of each reporting period.
(iii) Unquoted shares
The fair value of unquoted shares outside Malaysia are estimated based on adjusted net asset method.
(d) Fair value hierarchy
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
(i) The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the
contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a
risk-free interest.
(ii) Fair value of non-derivative financial liabilities, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated
based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of
interest at the end of the reporting period. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined
by reference to similar borrowing arrangements.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 201
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (Cont’d)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position.
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments not
carried at fair value Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Group RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets
- Commodity futures contracts - 27,867,682 - - - - 27,867,682 27,867,682
- Commodity option contracts - 307,614 - - - - 307,614 307,614
- Foreign currency forward
contracts - 5,288,387 - - - - 5,288,387 5,288,387
- 33,463,683 - - - - 33,463,683 33,463,683
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Commodity futures contracts - 11,815,905 - - - - 11,815,905 11,815,905
- Commodity option contracts - 1,001,716 - - - - 1,001,716 1,001,716
- Cross currency swap contracts - 10,605,177 - - - - 10,605,177 10,605,177
- Foreign currency forward
contracts - 3,854,710 - - - - 3,854,710 3,854,710
- 27,277,508 - - - - 27,277,508 27,277,508
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
202 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (Cont’d)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (Cont’d)
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments not
carried at fair value Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Group RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets
- Commodity futures contracts 47,589,150 - - - - - 47,589,150 47,589,150
- Commodity option contracts 1,264,785 - - - - - 1,264,785 1,264,785
- Cross currency swap contracts - 2,623,803 - - - - 2,623,803 2,623,803
- Foreign currency forward
contracts - 1,206,767 - - - - 1,206,767 1,206,767
48,853,935 3,830,570 - - - - 52,684,505 52,684,505
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Commodity futures contracts 70,950,005 - - - - - 70,950,005 70,950,005
- Commodity option contracts 325,273 - - - - - 325,273 325,273
- Foreign currency forward
contracts - 3,667,130 - - - - 3,667,130 3,667,130
- Foreign currency option contracts - 190,630 - - - - 190,630 190,630
71,275,278 3,857,760 - - - - 75,133,038 75,133,038
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 203
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (Cont’d)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (Cont’d)
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments not
carried at fair value Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Company RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Cross currency swap contracts - 10,605,177 - - - - 10,605,177 10,605,177
2020
Company
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets
- Cross currency swap contracts - 2,623,803 - - - - 2,623,803 2,623,803
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
204 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group’s financial risk management objective is to optimise value creation for its shareholders whilst minimising
the potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, interest rates and unpredictably
of the financial markets.
The Group operates within an established risk management framework and clearly defined guidelines that are
regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors. Financial risk management is carried out through risk review, internal
control systems and adherence to the Group financial risk management policies. The Group is exposed mainly
to credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk as well as liquidity and cash flow risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below.
(i) Credit risk
Cash deposits and trade receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised if
a counter party fails to perform as contracted. The counter parties are major international institutions and
reputable multinational organisations. It is the policy of the Group to monitor the financial standing of these
counter parties on an ongoing basis to ensure that the Group is exposed to minimal credit risk.
The Group’s primary exposure to credit risk arises through its trade and other receivables. The Group’s trading
terms with its customers are mainly on credit. The credit period is generally for a period of 30 days to 120 days
(2020: 30 days to 120 days). Each customer has a maximum credit limit and the Group seeks to maintain strict
control over its outstanding receivables via a credit control officer to minimise credit risk. Overdue balances are
reviewed regularly by senior management.
The Company provides financial guarantee to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain
subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments made by the
subsidiaries.
Credit risk concentration profile
The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amounts owing by two (2) customers (2020:
two (2) customer) which constituted approximately 16% (2020:16%) of its trade receivables at the end of the
reporting period.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 205
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(i) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Credit risk concentration profile (Cont’d)
The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the country and industry sector profiles of
its trade receivables (including amounts owing by a related party and associates) on an ongoing basis. The
credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the end of each reporting period are as
follows, comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:
Group Company
By Country
2021
RM
2021
% of total
2020
RM
2020
% of total
By Country
Indonesia 58,527,379 16.1% 16,415,125 5.2%
China 50,456,424 13.9% 20,675,212 6.6%
United States 34,926,048 9.6% 53,420,601 17.0%
Netherlands 32,984,422 9.1% 38,673,879 12.3%
Singapore 31,153,326 8.6% 25,218,768 8.0%
Malaysia 27,765,825 7.6% 27,311,015 8.7%
Russia 17,728,460 4.9% 23,097,921 7.3%
India 14,185,848 3.9% 10,814,612 3.4%
Germany 12,984,165 3.6% 15,579,064 5.0%
Italy 10,958,808 3.0% 6,566,637 2.1%
Switzerland 10,346,261 2.8% 10,226,671 3.2%
Brazil 6,066,472 1.7% 15,482,804 4.9%
Other countries 55,239,325 15.2% 51,282,811 16.3%
363,322,763 100.0% 314,765,120 100.0%
(ii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies
other than the respective functional currencies of entities within the Group. The currencies giving rise to
this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”), Euro (“EUR”) and Indonesian Rupiah
(“RUPIAH”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing basis to ensure that the net exposure is at
an acceptable level. On occasion, the Group enters into forward currency contracts to hedge against its foreign
currency risk. The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies for working
capital purposes.
The majority of the Group transactional currency risk arises from its foreign currency based forward sales and
purchase of commodity items, contracted along the cocoa bean price chain. These non-financial forward
contracts denominated in foreign currency are exposed to economic risk due to currency fluctuations and
accounted as financial instruments with fair value impact to its financial statements. These forward contracts
on fulfillment at maturity will result in book receivables or payables in foreign currency.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
206 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(ii) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
The Group entity’s currency exposure and corresponding foreign currency contract are mark-to-market and
fair value quarterly for operational hedge effectiveness testing and for management reporting and oversight.
Monthly long-short positions on foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives are also produced for
timely control and intervention.
Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and the Company to a reasonably possible
change in United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”), Euro (“EUR”) and Indonesian Rupiah (“RUPIAH”)
exchange rate against the respective functional currencies of the Group entities, with all other variables held
constant, comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:
Group Company
Profit after tax
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
USD/RM - strengthen by 5% (2020: 5%) (25,559,200) (19,648,000) 10,731,200 10,617,500
- weaken by 5% (2020: 5%) 25,559,200 19,648,000 (10,731,200) (10,617,500)
GBP/RM - strengthen by 5% (2020: 5%) (15,499,500) 940,300 - -
- weaken by 5% (2020: 5%) 15,499,500 (940,300) - -
EUR/RM - strengthen by 5% (2020: 5%) (4,450,400) (5,532,500) - -
- weaken by 5% (2020: 5%) 4,450,400 5,532,500 - -
RUPIAH
/RM
- strengthen by 5% (2020: 5%) 1,301,600 595,400 - -
- weaken by 5% (2020: 5%) (1,301,600) (595,400) - -
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 207
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(iii) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group would fluctuate because of changes in
market interest rates. The exposures to market risk of the Group for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the deposits placed with licensed
banks and interest bearing borrowings of the Group. There is no formal hedging policy with respect to interest rate exposure.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the remaining
maturities of the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed to interest rate risk, comparatives have been restated to conform with current
year’s presentation:
Group
Note
Weighted
average effective
interest rate
%
Within
1 year
RM
1 - 5
years
RM
More than
5 years
RM
Total
RM
As at 31 December 2021
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 17 1.81 20,916,631 - - 20,916,631
Sukuk Wakalah 21 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rates
Revolving credits 21 0.52 (114,805,648) - - (114,805,648)
Term loans 21 3.13 (27,127,340) (87,040,596) (4,785,517) (118,953,453)
Trade loans 21 1.14 (758,530,467) - - (758,530,467)
As at 31 December 2020
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 17 1.81 19,872,275 - - 19,872,275
Sukuk Wakalah 21 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rates
Revolving credits 21 0.71 (54,812,593) - - (54,812,593)
Term loans 21 3.30 (20,162,833) (120,510,692) (8,425,139) (149,098,664)
Trade loans 21 1.35 (531,062,297) - - (531,062,297)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
208 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(iii) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the remaining
maturities of the financial instruments of the Company that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Company
Note
Weighted
average effective
interest rate
%
Within
1 year
RM
1 - 5
years
RM
More than
5 years
RM
Total
RM
As at 31 December 2021
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 17 2.10 5,893,800 - - 5,893,800
Sukuk Wakalah 21 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rate
Amounts owing by subsidiaries 15 3.40 - 150,193,229 301,415,974 451,609,203
As at 31 December 2020
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 17 2.10 5,773,019 - - 5,773,019
Sukuk Wakalah 21 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rate
Amounts owing by subsidiaries 15 3.38 - - 425,019,713 425,019,713
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 209
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(iii) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and of the Company if interest rates at
the end of reporting period changed by 100 basis points with all other variables held constant.
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Profit after tax
- Increase by 1% (2020: 1%) (7,541,000) (5,586,000) 3,432,000 3,230,000
- Decrease by 1% (2020: 1%) 7,541,000 5,586,000 (3,432,000) (3,230,000)
The Group’s exposure to the interest rate risk is higher in 2021 than in 2020 due to the increase in outstanding
borrowings during the financial year. The assumed movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis
is based on current observable market environment.
(iv) Commodity price risk
The manufacturing of the Group’s cocoa-derived food ingredients products require raw materials such as
cocoa beans. The Group seeks to protect itself from the volatility of cocoa bean price risk through the use of
commodity futures contracts in a cost effective manner.
The value of the Group’s open sale and purchase commitments and inventory of raw materials changes
continuously in line with cocoa bean price movements in the respective commodity markets.
The Group uses commodity futures manage its price risk and exposure by having policies and procedures
governing its limits on volume and tenure, mark-to-market losses and on approval. The Group’s marketing and
trading operations are centralised and long-short positions are monitored closely.
Sensitivity analysis for commodity price risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if commodity price index at the end of
reporting period changed by 100 basis points with all other variables held constant.
Group Company
2021
RM
2020
RM
2021
RM
2020
RM
Profit after tax
- Increase by 1% (2020: 1%) 200,395 3,410,369 - -
- Decrease by 1% (2020: 1%) (200,395) (3,410,369) - -
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
210 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(v) Liquidity and cash flow risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital. It is the risk that the Group would
encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations when due.
The Group monitors and maintains a level of cash and bank balances deemed adequate by management to
finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end
of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. Comparatives have been
restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
As at 31 December 2021
On demand or
within one year
RM
One to
five years
RM
Over
five years
RM
Total
RM
Group
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 683,185,977 - - 683,185,977
Borrowings 910,511,714 127,968,304 313,617,178 1,352,097,196
Derivative financial liabilities 27,277,508 - - 27,277,508
Lease liabilities 14,226,484 23,603,139 30,235,217 68,064,840
1,635,201,683 151,571,443 343,852,395 2,130,625,521
Company
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 12,010,547 - - 12,010,547
Derivative financial liabilities 10,605,177 - - 10,605,177
Borrowings 11,520,000 46,080,000 311,520,000 369,120,000
34,135,724 46,080,000 311,520,000 391,735,724
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 211
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(v) Liquidity and cash flow risk (Cont’d)
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end
of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. Comparatives have been
restated to conform with current year’s presentation. (Cont’d)
As at 31 December 2020
On demand or
within one year
RM
One to
five years
RM
Over
five years
RM
Total
RM
Group
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 364,194,581 - - 364,194,581
Borrowings 618,798,871 170,471,248 331,652,003 1,120,922,122
Derivative financial liabilities 75,133,038 - - 75,133,038
Lease liabilities 10,015,859 24,871,689 33,367,465 68,255,013
1,068,142,349 195,342,937 365,019,468 1,628,504,754
Company
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 16,867,438 - - 16,867,438
Borrowings 11,520,000 46,080,000 323,040,000 380,640,000
28,387,438 46,080,000 323,040,000 397,507,438
(vi) Net investment hedge
The Group’s foreign operations of various functional currencies when translated into its parent’s reporting currency
basedonclosingrates(forassetsandliabilities)andaveragetransactionrates(forincomeandexpenses)atconsolidation,
gives rise to foreign currency translation gain or loss that will be recognised in other comprehensive income.
A foreign currency exposure arises from the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary that has a USD
functional currency. The risk arises from the fluctuation in spot exchange rates between USD and RM, which
causes the amount of the net investment to vary. The hedged risk in the net investment hedge is the risk of
a weakening USD against the RM that will result in a reduction in the carrying amount of the Group’s net
investment in the Singapore subsidiary.
Part of the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary is hedged by cross currency swap contracts, which
mitigates the foreign currency risk arising from the subsidiary’s net assets. The swap contracts are designated
as a hedging instrument for the changes in the value of the net investment that is attributable to changes in the
RM/USD spot rate. The Group applies a hedge ratio 1:1.
To assess hedge effectiveness, the Group determines the economic relationship between the hedging instrument
and the hedged item by comparing changes in the carrying amount of the swap contracts that is attributable to a
change in the mark-to-market with changes in the investment in the foreign operation due to movements in the
spot rate. The Group’s policy is to hedge the net investment only to the extent of the swap contracts principal.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
212 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONT’D)
(vi) Net investment hedge (Cont’d)
The amounts related to items designated as hedged items of the Group were as follows:
Change in
value used for
calculating
hedge
effectiveness
RM
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
RM
Balances remaining in the
foreign currency translation
reserve from hedging
relationships for which
hedge accounting is
no longer applied
RM
2021
- Overseas subsidiary (6,838,465) (6,838,465) -
2020
- Overseas subsidiary 2,428,506 2,428,506 -
The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments of the Group were as follows:
Notional
amount
RM
Carrying
amount of
assets/
(liabilities)
RM
Line item in the statement
of financial position
where the hedging
instrument is included
Hedging gain
or loss
recognised
in OCI
RM
Hedge
ineffectiveness
recognised in
profit or loss
RM
Line item in the
statement of
comprehensive
income that
includes hedge
ineffectiveness
2021
- Cross currency swap
contracts 286,838,465 (10,605,177)
Derivative
financial liabilities (6,838,465) (3,938,813)
Other
expenses
2020
- Cross currency swap
contracts 276,645,886 2,623,803
Derivative
financial assets 2,428,506 - -
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 213
38. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) In last financial year, PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, entered
into a Sale and Purchase Agreements (“SPA”) with PT Tunas Sakti Mas, to acquire two (2) separate leasehold
land and warehouses in Komplek Tunas Industrial Estate, Batam, Indonesia for total purchase consideration of
approximately RM13,617,408 (equivalent to SGD4,480,000).
Acquisition on one of the leasehold land and warehouse was completed and recognised in property, plant
and equipment of the Group in last financial year with purchase consideration of approximately RM6,808,704
(equivalent to SGD2,240,000).
During the financial year, the acquisition of remaining piece of leasehold land and warehouse was completed
and recognised in current year’s property, plant and equipment of the Group.
(b) In last financial year, GCBCM, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a SPA with Honda
Autoparts Manufacturing (M) Sdn. Bhd. to acquire two (2) pieces of leasehold land together with buildings in
Mukim Plentong, Johor Bahru, Johor for a total purchase consideration of RM6,900,000.
During the financial year, the SPA was completed and recognised in current year’s property, plant and equipment
of the Group.
(c) On 19 August 2021, Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
entered into a SPA with Nozomi Logistics Sdn. Bhd. for the disposal of two (2) pieces of freehold land in Mukim
Plentong, Johor Bahru, Johor for a total sales consideration of RM7,537,031. The transactions have been
completed and a gain on disposal of RM1,975,116 had been recognised in the financial statements for the
financial year ended 31 December 2021.
39. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Subsequent to the financial year, Russia and Ukraine conflict resulting in the imposition of various economic sanctions
on Russia by several countries across the world. These developments resulted in soaring global commodities and
energy prices, supply chain disruption, significant decrease in value of Ruble and a temporary halt of trading on the
Moscow Exchange.
Known facts and financial impact of non-adjusting events since the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(a) Credit risk on trade receivables
Total trade receivables as at reporting date that exposed from conflict zones amounting to RM17,728,460 as
disclosed in Note 37(i) to the financial statements. Substantial portion of these amounts have been collected
and the remaining uncollected balance is insignificant to the Group.
(b) Increasing energy cost in Germany
The energy prices in Germany, in particular electricity and gas prices, are on the rise even before the above-
mentioned conflict. The conflict has further driven up the energy costs in the country. For existing sales
contracts that have already been locked in, the company is unable to pass on the increased costs to customers.
However, the Group will mitigate such risk by incorporating the increased costs into our new selling prices.
The Russia-Ukraine conflict is still evolving and remains unpredictable. Despite that the Group’s exposure in Russia is
not significant, the Group is closely monitoring and managing the operations of the Group to minimise any impact
arising from these developments.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
214 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
40. COMPARATIVES
Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.
(a) Trade receivables sold with non-recourse arrangement
The Group sold certain trade receivables to a financial institution with non-recourse conditions for cash
proceeds as disclosed in Note 15(i) to the financial statements.
Group
As previously
reported
RM
Reclassification
RM
As restated
RM
Consolidated statement of financial position as at
31 December 2020
Trade and other receivables 509,076,177 (88,747,156) 420,329,021
Borrowings - short term (694,784,878) 88,747,156 (606,037,722)
Consolidated statement of cash flow for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020
Cash flows from operating activities
Changes in trade and other receivables 26,546,966 88,747,156 115,294,122
Cash flows from financing activities
Net movements in borrowings 331,251,216 (88,747,156) 242,504,060
(b) Reclassification of prepaid lease payments for presentation purpose.
Group
As previously
reported
RM
Reclassification
RM
As restated
RM
Consolidated statement of financial position as at
31 December 2020
Property, plant and equipment 834,797,978 9,951,754 844,749,732
Prepaid lease payments 9,951,754 (9,951,754) -
Consolidated statement of cash flow for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020
Cash flows from operating activities
Amortisation of:
- leasehold land 574,536 (574,536) -
- warehouse 52,600 (52,600) -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 54,387,057 627,136 55,014,193
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Notes to the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
31 December 2021
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 215
40. COMPARATIVES (CONT’D)
(c) Reclassification of impairment of trade and other receivables for presentation purpose.
As previously
reported
RM
Reclassification
RM
As restated
RM
Group
Consolidated statement of profit or loss for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020
Other income 118,778,003 (6,362,976) 112,415,027
Other expenses (74,035,381) 3,822,831 (70,212,550)
Net impairment reversal on trade and other receivables - 2,540,145 2,540,145
Company
Statement of profit or loss for the financial year ended
31 December 2020
Other income 32,570,133 (230,000) 32,340,133
Net impairment reversal on trade and other receivables - 230,000 230,000
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
216 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2021
Malaysia
PLO273 Jalan Timah
2, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on 8
May 2043)
7,976 31 years
(Main factory
and office)
25 years
(second
factory)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCC main office,
production area for
GCC and temporary
warehouse
7 December
1989
7,016,803
No. 49 Jalan 10/9,
Perjiranan 10, Pasir
Gudang, Johor
99 years
(expiring on 6
May 2082)
143 38 years Hostel 28 July
1994
47,563
PLO725, Jalan
Keluli 9, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
17 February
2068)
27,523 15 years Factory / warehouse 9 January
2006
17,227,444
Lot 4-0104(P)
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 3,502 N/A Industrial land 1 July
2013
2,032,207
Lot 4-0117
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July
2013
2,364,104
Lot 4-0118
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July
2013
2,364,104
Lot 4-0119
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July
2013
2,364,104
Lot 4-0120
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 5,565 4 years
(Warehouse)
Warehouse 1 July
2013
7,358,630
Lot D30 & D31,
Distripark B, Pelepas
Free Zone, Johor
13 years
(expiring on
23 March
2025)
16,107 11 years Rental 2 July
2014
15,238,399
PLO81, Jalan Timah
3, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor.
60 years
(expiring on
21 July 2036)
12,747 N/A Industrial land 4 January
2019
3,000,000
PLO207, Jalan
Tembaga Satu,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring
on 30
September
2045)
8,093.71 4 years
(Main office
and factory)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCBCM main office,
production area for
GCBCM and temporary
warehouse
26 December
1990
14,282,013
PLO233, Jalan
Tembaga Satu,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring on
16 January
2049)
8,044 35 years Industrial premises
with a two storey office
with a single storey
factory and warehouse
15 October
2020
8,224,060
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 217
List of Properties (Cont’d)
Location
Tenure /
Term of
lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2021
PLO308, Jalan
Tembaga Dua,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring
on 22
September
2045)
8,093 35 years Industrial premises /
factory / warehouse
15 October
2020
7,989,519
PLO480, Jalan Keluli
Tiga, 81700 Pasir
Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring on
17 October
2053)
20,234 10 year Warehouse 30 June
2021
9,282,903
PLO546, Jalan Keluli
Sepuluh, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
7 October
2057)
20,166 13 year Warehouse 30 June
2021
7,315,473
Singapore
The Cascadia
943 Bukit Timah
Road
#05-47
Singapore 589659
Freehold 111 12 years Residential 17 January
2011
3,633,641
1 Commonwealth
Lane
#08-04 One
Commonwealth
Singapore 149544
30 years
(expiring on
28 February
2038)
111 14 years Office 19 January
2011
1,446,764
United States
400, Eagle Court
Swedesboro,
Logan Township,
Gloucester County,
NJ 08085
Freehold 6,113.02 N/A Industrial premises
/ Factory consists
of CCC main office,
production area for
CCC
10 April
2017
8,425,148
Ivory Coast
Zone Industrielle de
San Pédro
Bardot 18, Lot 208
TF No. 1138
Bas-Cavally, Ivory
Coast
Leasehold 63,566 N/A Industrial land 28 January
2019
21,416,520
Indonesia
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. A-F,
Batam, Indonesia
30 years
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
33,181 12 years Industrial premises
/ Factory consists of
PT Asia main office,
production area for PT
Asia
21 June
2010
36,280,591
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 6 No. 7-G,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
6,985 16 years Industrial premises and
warehouse
17 March
2011
4,048,634
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
218 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
List of Properties (Cont’d)
Location
Tenure /
Term of
lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2021
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 6 No. 6-D,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
1,257 16 years Industrial premises and
warehouse
17 March
2011
871,129
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. 7-H,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
4,388 15 years Industrial premises and
warehouse
4 August
2020
6,683,870
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. 7-I,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
4,513 15 year Industrial premises and
warehouse
11 January
2021
7,206,910
Komplek
Perumahan
Diamond Palace
Blok B No. 26,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
13 August
2030)
170 17 years Hostel 23 September
2011
442,346
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B3 No. 11, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 16 years Hostel 6 May
2011
158,525
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B3 No. 15, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 16 years Hostel 6 May
2011
158,525
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B5 No. 23, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 18 years Hostel 6 May
2011
158,525
Kawasan Industri
Kelurahan IV, Batam
Centre, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on 8
August 2031)
30,000 9 year Industrial premises
/ Factory consists of
PT Asia main office,
production area for PT
Asia
10 January
2012
34,186,532
Komplek. Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 6 No. 6-C,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
942 16 years Industrial premises and
warehouse
8 June
2012
848,543
Kawasan Daan
Mogot Arcadia, G15
No.5, Jl Raya Daan
Mogot KM21, Batu
Ceper, Jakarta,
Indonesia.
Leasehold
(expiring on 4
August 2035)
864 9 years Industrial premises 2 October
2012
2,804,787
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 219
List of Properties (Cont’d)
Location
Tenure /
Term of
lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2021
Palu warehouse
Jalan Trans
Sulaiwesi,
Taipa, Palu-
Sulaiwesi Tengah
94352.
Leasehold
(expiring on
21 January
2027)
15,551 15 years Warehouse 13 December
2013
6,719,884
Makassar
Warehouse
Jl. Kima 10 Kav
A/5-a Makassar
90241
Leasehold
(expiring on
29 October
2028)
10,890 23 years Warehouse 10 December
2013
4,464,454
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.1,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
174 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
523,259
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.2,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.3,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.3A, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.5,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.6,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.9,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.10, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.11,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
220 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
List of Properties (Cont’d)
Location
Tenure /
Term of
lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2021
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12A, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
338,314
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12B, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
174 6 years Hostel 29 December
2015
523,259
Rukan Daan Mogot
Permai
Blok G15 No.1
Jalan Raya Daan
Mogot KM 21 Batu
Ceper,
Tangerang 15122,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
21 August
2039)
605 3 years Warehouse 22 August
2019
2,008,050
Germany
Neckarvorlandstraße
21-25, 68159
Mannheim,
Germany
Freehold 13,044 51 years Industrial premises /
factory consists of SVG
main office, production
area for SVG and
residential building
1 January
2020
29,286,587
Fruchtbahnhofstraße
35-41, 68159
Mannheim, Germany
Leasehold
(expiring
on 30
September
2050)
20,840 N/A Industrial premises 1 October
2020
25,965,918
Am Salzkai,
68159 Mannheim
Germany
Leasehold
(expiring on
31 May 2024)
703 N/A Car Park 1 June
2020
134,468
United Kingdom
Lower Road,
Glemsford,
Sudberry, Suffolk
Freehold 71,872 71 years
(Building One)
21 years
(Building Two)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists
of main office and
production area for
GCBCUK
25 September
2020
45,606,611
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 221
Other Compliance Information
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS
There were no proceeds raised from any corporate proposal during the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The fees payable to the external auditors in relation to the audit and non-audit services rendered to the Company and
its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 are as follows:
COMPANY
RM
GROUP
RM
Audit fees 93,500 910,818
Non audit fees 5,000 44,337
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interest of Directors and major shareholders,
either still subsisting at the end of the financial year under review or entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
222 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 5 April 2022
Issued Share Capital 1,057,132,383 ordinary shares (including treasury shares)
1,056,732,383 ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares)
Voting Right One vote per ordinary share
Number of Shareholders 4,873
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
%* of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares held*
%* of Issued
Share Capital
Less than 100 shares 74 1.52 4,159 Neg
100 to 1,000 shares 1,139 23.37 743,472 0.07
1,001 to 10,000 shares 2,567 52.68 11,359,967 1.08
10,001 to 100,000 shares 842 17.28 24,570,437 2.32
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 250 5.13 499,387,410 47.26
5% and above of issued shares 1 0.02 520,666,938 49.27
TOTAL 4,873 100.00 1,056,732,383 100.00
Notes:
Neg – Negligible
* – Excluding 400,0000 shares held as treasury shares
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
No. of Shares held
Name Direct %* Indirect %*
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 520,666,938 49.27 - -
Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
No. of Shares held
Name Direct %* Indirect %*
Tay Hoe Lian 28,791,582 2.72 620,000(1) 0.06
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 11,079,096 1.05 2,570,000(2) 0.24
Hia Cheng 18,296,358 1.73 33,592,894(3) 3.18
Tan Ah Lai - - - -
Ang Nyee Nyee - - 8,000 Neg
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir - - - -
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 223
Analysis of Shareholdings (Cont’d)
As at 5 April 2022
HOLDING COMPANY – GUAN CHONG RESOURCES SDN. BHD.
No. of ordinary shares
Name Direct %* Indirect %*
Tay Hoe Lian 5,130,000 19.00 - -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 3,762,180 13.93 - -
Hia Cheng 1,350,000 5.00 - -
Other than as disclosed above, the Directors of the Company did not have any other interest in the shares of the Company
and its related corporations as at the date of the Analysis of Shareholdings.
Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the
Company
(2) Deemed interest by virtue of his daughter, Tay Jing Ye’s, Tay Sing Ye’s and Tan Lian Shi shareholding in the Company
(3) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughter, Hia Sin Yee’s and Hia Sin Che’s shareholding
in the Company
GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of Shares
held %*
1. Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 520,666,938 49.27
2. Misi Galakan Sdn. Bhd. 47,159,998 4.46
3. Lembaga Tabung Haji 35,834,900 3.39
4. Syarikat PJ Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. 29,049,398 2.75
5. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sedirian Berhad Deutsche Trustees Malaysia
Berhad For Hong Leong Value Fund
27,350,000 2.59
6. Wong Saow Lai 27,092,894 2.56
7. Tay Hoe Lian 25,191,584 2.38
8. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. Employees Provident Fund Board 20,683,100 1.96
9. Hia Cheng 18,296,358 1.73
10. Tay Hoe Chin 15,000,000 1.42
11. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd Employees Provident Fund Board
(Amundi)
12,642,000 1.20
12. Tay How Yeh 12,088,171 1.14
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
224 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES (CONT’D)
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of Shares
held %*
13. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sedirian Berhad
Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad For Hong Leong Balanced Fund
11,150,000 1.06
14. Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 10,379,698 0.98
15. Tan Hui Yang 7,624,188 0.72
16. Tan Bak Keng @ Tang Ka Guek 7,488,048 0.71
17. Chan Lee Yin 6,343,595 0.60
18. Ngiam Ping-Shin 6,283,798 0.59
19. Tay Lie Siang 5,983,837 0.57
20. Tay Lee Goh 5,821,207 0.55
21. Tay Lee Shein 5,718,839 0.54
22. T & T Family Sdn. Bhd. 5,100,000 0.48
23. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board (AsianIslamic)
4,848,400 0.46
24. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Select Treasures Fund
4,514,800 0.43
25. Hia Sin Yee 4,500,000 0.43
26. Tay Lee Lin 4,234,037 0.40
27. T & T Family Sdn. Bhd. 3,765,458 0.36
28. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. TMF Trustees Malaysia Berhad for
Affin Hwang Wholesale Equity Fund
3,515,500 0.33
29. HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
HSBC (M) Trustee Bhd for Pertubuhan Keselamatan Sosial (AFFHWG6939-403)
3,416,200 0.32
30. Oon Ai Fen 3,402,800 0.32
Total 895,145,746 84.70
Note:
* - Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
Analysis of Shareholdings (Cont’d)
As at 5 April 2022
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 225
Analysis of Warrantholdings
As at 5 April 2022
Number of Warrant B Issued : 168,022,058
Number of Warrant B Exercised : 48,799,479
Number of Warrant Unexercised : 119,222,579
Voting Rights : The holder of warrants is not entitled to any voting rights
Exercise Price Per Warrant : RM1.65
Number of Warrant holders : 1,825
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRNTHOLDINGS
Size of Warrantholdings
No. of
Warrantholdings
%* of
Warrantholdings
No. of
Warrants held
% of
Warrants
Less than 100 warrants 564 30.90 24,995 0.02
100 to 1,000 warrants 512 28.06 282,821 0.24
1,001 to 10,000 warrants 509 27.89 2,052,827 1.72
10,001 to 100,000 warrants 194 10.63 6,301,320 5.29
100,001 to less than 5% warrants 44 2.41 26,922,794 22.58
5% and above of warrants 2 0.11 83,637,822 70.15
TOTAL 1,825 100.00 119,222,579 100.00
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL WARRANTHOLDERS
No. of Warrants held
Name Direct % Indirect %
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 73,944,489 62.02 - -
Misi Galakan Sdn. Bhd. 9,693,333 8.13 - -
Tan Mary @ Safiah Tan Mary 35,333 0.03 9,693,333(1) 8.13
Notes:
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of her substantial warrantholding in Misi Galakan Sdn. Bhd.
DIRECTORS’ WARRANTHOLDINGS
No. of Warrants held
Name Direct % Indirect %
Tay Hoe Lian 1,288,595 1.08 100,000(1) 0.08
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 1,079,849 0.91 20,000(2) 0.02
Hia Cheng 2,116,059 1.77 5,147,148(3) 4.32
Tan Ah Lai - - - -
Ang Nyee Nyee - - - -
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir - - - -
Notes:
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Yap Kim Hong’s warrantholding in the Company
(2) Deemed interest by virtue of his daughter, Tay Jing Ye’s warrantholding in the Company
(3) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughter, Hia Sin Yee’s warrantholding in the
Company
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
226 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Analysis of Warrantholdings (Cont’d)
As at 5 April 2022
GUAN CHONG BERHAD – WARRANTS B
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANTHOLDERS
No. Name of Warrantholders
No. of Warrants
held %*
1. Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 73,944,489 62.02
2. Misi Galakan Sdn. Bhd. 9,693,333 8.13
3. Syarikat PJ Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. 4,841,566 4.06
4. Wong Saow Lai 4,813,815 4.04
5. Hia Cheng 2,116,059 1.77
6. Tan Hui Yang 1,984,349 1.66
7. Ngiam Ping-Shin 1,047,299 0.88
8. Oung Chee Seng 1,004,049 0.84
9. Lo Chee Meng 984,300 0.83
10. Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 963,283 0.81
11. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Pledged Securities Account for Yock Wan Ching
714,800 0.60
12. Tay Hoe Lian 688,596 0.58
13. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Pledged Securities Account for Chiew Chieng Siew (E-PDG)
582,000 0.49
14. Oon Ai Fen 567,133 0.48
15. Lim Hwee Chen 495,366 0.42
16. Hia Sin Yee 333,333 0.28
17. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Pledged Securities Account for Tay Hoe Lian
333,333 0.28
18. Tay Lee Shein 330,673 0.28
19. Chow Yew Shing @ Chew Yeow Chong 311,000 0.26
20. Chuah Chai Pore 306,933 0.26
21. Affin Hwang Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
Phillip Securities Pte Ltd for Chan Sek Keong
300,000 0.25
22. Yee Yet Moon 300,000 0.25
23. Tay Lee Goh 290,000 0.24
24. Tay Hoe Lian 266,666 0.22
25. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
SSBT Fund J724 for SPDR S&P Emerging Markets ETF
227,666 0.19
26. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Ivan The Fu Sun
200,000 0.17
27. Tey Moi Hong 198,200 0.17
28. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Pledged Securities Account for Chang Sen Siang
188,900 0.16
29. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
Pledged Securities Account for William Desmond York
180,000 0.15
30. Tay Lee Lin 174,506 0.15
Total 108,381,647 90.92
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 227
Notice of Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting of GUAN CHONG BERHAD (“GCB” or “the
Company”) will be conducted entirely through live streaming from the meeting venue at PLO 207, Jalan Tembaga Satu,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor on Monday, 30 May 2022 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:
AGENDA
As Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2021 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and allowances up to RM850,000 for the
financial year ending 31 December 2022 payable monthly in arrears after each month of
completed service of the Directors during the subject financial year.
3. To declare a final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2021.
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire in accordance with Regulation 91 of the
Company’s Constitution:
i) Hia Cheng
ii) Tay Hoe Lian
5. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
As Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions with or without any
modifications as resolutions:
6. Authority to Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Section 75 of the
Companies Act 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company and the approvals of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and other relevant
governmental or regulatory bodies, where such approvals are necessary, the Directors
be hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 75 of the Act, to issue shares in the Company
from time to time and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the
Directors may deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant
to this resolution does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital of the
Company for the time being and that such authority shall continue in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
228 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
7. Proposed renewal of and new shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature (“RRPT”)
“THAT pursuant to paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), approval be hereby given for the renewal
of and new shareholders’ mandate for the GCB Group to enter into and to give effect
to specified RRPT and with the related parties as stated in Section 4.3 of the Circular to
Shareholders dated 28 April 2022, which are necessary for its day-to-day operations,
to be entered into by the GCB Group on the basis that these transactions are or to be
entered into on terms which are not more favorable to the Related Parties involved than
generally available to the public and are not detrimental to the minority shareholders of
the Company” (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”);
THAT the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate is subject to annual renewal. In this respect,
any authority conferred by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate shall only continue to
be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
following the general meeting at which the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate
has been passed, at which time it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the
meeting, the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after the date it is required
to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“Act”) (but shall
not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the
Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting,
whichever is the earlier;
AND THAT the Directors of the Company and/or any of them be hereby authorised to
complete and do all such acts and things (including executing such documents as may
be required) to give effect to the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”
8. Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary
shares up to ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital
“THAT, subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), rules, regulations and orders
made pursuant to the Act, provisions of the Company’s Constitution and the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
and any other relevant authority, the Company be hereby given full authority, to seek
shareholders’ approval for the renewal of authority for the Company to purchase such
amount of ordinary shares in the Company (“Shares”) through Bursa Securities upon
such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit in the interest of the Company
provided that:
(i) the aggregate number of Shares so purchased and/or held pursuant to this ordinary
resolution (“Purchased Shares”) does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total
issued share capital of the Company; and
(ii) the maximum amount of funds to be allocated for the Purchased Shares shall not
exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company;
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 229
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
“THAT the Directors be hereby authorised to decide at their discretion either to retain
the Purchased Shares as treasury shares (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to
cancel the Purchased Shares and/or to retain the Purchased Shares as treasury shares
for distribution as share dividends to the shareholders of the Company and/or be resold
through Bursa Securities in accordance with the relevant rules of Bursa Securities and/
or cancelled subsequently and/or to retain part of the Purchased Shares as treasury
shares and/or cancel the remainder and to deal with the Purchased Shares in such other
manner as may be permitted by the Act, rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements
and/or orders of Bursa Securities and any other relevant authorities for the time being in
force;
AND THAT such approval and authorisation shall only continue to be in force until:
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
following the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is
renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions; or
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after that date is required
by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
Company in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all such acts and
things (including, without limitation executing all such documents as may be required)
as they may consider expedient or necessary to give full effect to this mandate.”
9. Proposed retention of Tan Ah Lai as Independent Director
THAT approval be hereby given to Tan Ah Lai who has served as Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years to
continue to act as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in accordance
with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance.
10. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Companies Act 2016.
Ordinary Resolution 9
NOTICE OF ENTITLEMENT DATE AND DIVIDEND PAYMENT
NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN THAT subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Eighteenth Annual General
Meeting, the proposed final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December
2021, will be paid on 10 June 2022 to depositors registered in the Record of Depositors of the Company at the close of
business on 18 May 2022.
A depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:-
a) Shares transferred into the Depositor’s Securities Account before 4.30 p.m. on 18 May 2022 in respect of ordinary
transfers; or
b) Shares bought on the Bursa Securities on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of the Bursa Securities.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
230 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
By order of the Board,
NG MEI WAN
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000801) (MIA 28862)
TAN HUI KHIM
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000859) (LS 0009936)
Company Secretaries
Muar, Johor
28 April 2022
Notes:
1. IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Meeting Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders/proxies/corporate representatives/attorneys WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the Eighteenth Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the Meeting Venue on the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and
vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the AGM via the Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facility
provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. via https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my (Domain Registration No.
with MYNIC – D6A357657)
2. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 23 May 2022 shall be regarded as members and
be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
3. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend,
participate, speak and vote in his/her stead pursuant to Section 334 of the Act. There shall be no restriction as to the
qualification of the proxy. A member who has appointed a proxy or power of attorney or authorised representative
at the AGM via RPEV facility must request his/her proxy to register himself/herself for RPEV facility at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the Administrative Details for AGM.
4. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
5. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions
of his holdings to be represented by each proxy. If the appointor is a corporation, the proxy form must be executed under
its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. In the event the member(s) duly executes
the proxy form but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the
meeting as his/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the proxy form, other than the particulars of the proxy have
been duly completed by the member(s).
6. To be valid, the duly completed proxy form or power of attorney or certificate of appointment of corporate
representatives must be deposited at the Share Registrars of the Company situated at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No.
5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor or by electronic lodgement via https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time for holding the meeting as Paragraph
8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad requires all resolutions set out in
the Notice of AGM to be put to vote by poll. Please refer to the Administrative Details for AGM on the procedures for
electronic lodgement of proxy form or power of attorney or certificate of appointment of corporate representatives.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 231
Explanatory Notes:
7. Item 1 of the Agenda
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not
require a formal approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.
8. Item 2 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 1
Approval of Directors’ fees and allowances for the financial year ending 31 December 2022
Directors’ fees and allowances approved for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were RM850,000. The Directors’
fees and allowances proposed for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 are calculated based on the number of
scheduled Board and Committee Meetings for year 2022 and assuming that all Non-Executive Directors will hold office
until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and allowances on current financial year basis. In the event the
Directors’ fees and allowances proposed are insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings), approval will be sought at the next
annual general meeting for additional fees and allowances to meet the shortfall.
9. Item 6 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 6
Authority to Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Section 75 of the Companies Act 2016
(a) The proposed Ordinary Resolution no. 6, if passed, will empower the Directors of the Company, from the date of
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) to allot and issue shares in the Company up to an amount not
exceeding ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital of the Company for the time being for such purposes as
they may deem fit and in the interest of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied at a general meeting
will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
(b) The mandate now sought is a renewal from the previous mandate obtained at the last AGM held on 31 May 2021
which will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
(c) As at the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued pursuant to the mandate granted to the
Directors at the last AGM held on 31 May 2021.
(d) The authority will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not
limited to further placing of shares, for purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or
acquisitions.
10. Item 7 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 7
Proposed renewal of and new shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or
trading nature (“RRPT”) (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”)
The proposed Ordinary Resolution no. 7, if passed, will approve RRPT which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-
day operations to be entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with the respective related parties from the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) to the next AGM; subject to the condition that the transactions are
entered into on terms which are not more favorable to the related parties involved than generally available to the public
and are not detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company. Further details on the Proposed Shareholders’
Mandate are provided in the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2022.
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
232 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
11. Item 8 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 8
Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to ten percent (10%) of
its issued share capital (“Proposed Shares Buy-Back Authority”)
The proposed Ordinary Resolution no. 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase shares in the Company up
to an amount not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the issued share capital of the Company as they consider would be in
the interest of the Company. Further details on the Proposed Shares Buy-Back Authority are provided in the Circular to
Shareholders dated 28 April 2022.
12. Item 9 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 9
Proposed Retention of Tan Ah Lai as Independent Director
The Board has assessed the independence of the Director, Tan Ah Lai who has served as Independent Non-Executive
Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, and recommended him to continue to act
as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company based on the following justifications:
i) He fulfill the criteria under the definition of an Independent Director (except for item h) as stated in the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, and thus, he will be able to function as check
and balance, provide a broader view and bring an element of objectivity to the Board;
ii) During his tenure in office, he not developed, established or maintained any significant relationship which would
impair his independence as Independent Director with the Executive Directors and major shareholders other than
normal engagements and interactions on a professional level consistent and expected of them to carry out his
duties as Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman or member of the Board’s Committees;
iii) During his tenure in office, he has never transacted or entered into any transactions with, nor provided any services
to the Company and its subsidiaries, within the scope and meaning as set forth under Paragraph 5 of Practice
Note 13 of Listing Requirements;
iv) He has currently not sitting on the board of any other public and/or private companies having the same nature of
business as that of the Company and its subsidiaries;
v) During his tenure in office as Independent Non-Executive Director in the Company, he has not been offered or
granted any options by the Company. Other than Director’s fees and allowances paid which have been an industry
norm and within acceptable market rates and duly disclosed in this Annual Report, no other incentives or benefits
of whatsoever nature had been paid to them by the Company;
vi) His vast experience and legal and accounting background enable him to provide the Board with a diverse set of
experience, expertise and independent judgment; and
vii) He has performed his duties diligently and in the best interest of the Company and provide a broader view,
independent and balanced assessment of proposals from the management.
13. ANNUAL REPORT
The Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 is now available at the Company’s corporate website,
www.gcbcocoa.com. Printed copy of the Annual Report shall be provided to the shareholders upon request soonest
possible from the date of receipt of the request.
Shareholders who wish to receive the printed Annual Report may email your request to Boardroom Share Registrars
Sdn. Bhd. [199601006647 (378993-D)] at Mohamed.Sophiee@boardroomlimited.com or Muhammad.Taufiq@
boardroomlimited.com
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 233
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
DETAILS OF INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE STANDING FOR ELECTION AS DIRECTORS
No individual is seeking election as a Director at the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Notice of Annual General Meeting (Cont’d)
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
234 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Administrative Details
For Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“18th AGM”) of Guan Chong Berhad
Due to the unprecedented circumstances arising from the measures that have been implemented nationally to limit the
spread of the COVID-19, and in particular, the Government of Malaysia (“Government”)’s official guidance for practising
social distancing, the Board of Directors of GUAN CHONG BERHAD (“Board”) has decided that the 18th AGM of GUAN
CHONG BERHAD (“the Company” or “GCB”) shall be held on virtual basis and entirely via Remote Participation and
Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities on the date, time and at the Meeting Venue, as follows:
Date : Monday, 30 May 2022
Time : 10.00 a.m.
Meeting Venue : PLO 207, Jalan Tembaga Satu,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor
Online Meeting Platform : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
(Domain Registration No. with MYNIC – D6A357657)
Mode of Communication : 1. Type text in the meeting platform. The Messaging window facility will be opened
concurrently with the Virtual Meeting Portal, i.e. one (1) hour before the 18th AGM,
which is from 9.00 a.m. on Monday, 30 May 2022
2. Shareholders may submit questions in advance on the 18th AGM resolutions and
Annual Report 2021 commencing from 29 April 2022 and in any event not later
than Sunday, 29 May 2022 at 10.00 a.m. via Boardroom’s website at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com using the same user ID and password provided in Step 2
below, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-AGM Meeting
Questions”).
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES ON COVID-19
1. The Company invites shareholders to participate in the upcoming 18th AGM from their home or office and follow
the entire proceedings as the 18th AGM would be conducted via RPEV facilities. The AGM will be conducted in
accordance with the practices that have already been adopted by other internationally developed capital markets.
The 18th AGM is transparent, has a high level of integrity and is environmentally friendly. Our approach also supports
the Government’s initiative to ban mass gathering as part of its safety measure to contain the spread of COVID-19,
while concurrently observes 18th AGM deadline as stipulated in the Companies Act 2016. Furthermore, throughout
the years, the resolutions in our 18th AGM have been passed electronically, and the adoption of a virtual AGM is one
step ahead for good corporate governance practice.
Please note that the Meeting Venue is strictly for the purpose of compliance with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act
2016 and Regulation 73 of the Company’s Constitution. NO SHAREHOLDERS/PROXIES/POWER OF ATTORNEY/
CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES should be physically present at or admitted to the Meeting Venue on the day of
the AGM.
VOTING PROCEDURE
1. The voting procedure will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”) Main Market Listing Requirements. The Company has appointed Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“Boardroom”) as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of electronic voting (“e-voting”)
and Independent Scrutineers to verify and validate the poll results.
2. For the purposes of this 18th AGM, e-voting will be carried out via the following voting devices:
a. Personal smart mobile phones , tablets or Laptops
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 235
Administrative Details (Cont’d)
For Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“18th AGM”) of Guan Chong Berhad
3. There are two (2) methods for members and proxies who wish to use their personal voting device to vote. The
methods are as follows:
a. Use QR Scanner Code given in the email to you; OR
b. Go to the website URL https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my (Domain Registration No. with MYNIC –
D6A357657)
4. The polling will only commence after the announcement of poll being opened by the Chairman and until such time
when the Chairman announces the closure of poll.
5. The Scrutineers will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairman and the Chairman
will declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.
6. You must ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and vote remotely when
the 18th AGM has commenced. Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the
18th AGM is maintained. Kindly note that the quality of the connectivity to Virtual Meeting Portal for live webcast
as well as for remote online voting is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection at the
location of the remote participants.
ONLINE REGISTRATION PROCEDURE
7. Please note that the RPEV facilities is available to (i) Individual Members; (ii) Corporate Shareholders; (iii)
Authorised Nominee; and (iv) Exempt Authorised Nominee shall use the RPEV facilities to participate and vote
remotely at the 18th AGM.
8. If you choose to participate in the Meeting online, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, ask questions
and submit your votes in real time whilst the Meeting is in progress.
9. Kindy follow the steps below on how to request for login ID and password.
Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
(Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again.
You may proceed to Step 2. Submit request for Remote Participation user ID and password)
a. Access website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
b. Click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKAD (front and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF
format.
d. Please enter a valid email address and wait for Boardroom’s email verification.
e. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be
provided.
Step 2 – Submit Request for Remote Participation User ID and Password
(Note: The registration for remote access will be opened on 29 April 2022)
Individual Members
- Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your. login credentials created with Boardroom Smart
Investor Portal from Step 1 above.
- Select “GUAN CHONG BERHAD (18th) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the list of Corporate Meetings
and click “Enter”.
- Click on “Register for RPEV”
- Read and agree to the terms & conditions and confirm the declaration by clicking “Next”.
- Enter your CDS Account Number and thereafter submit your request.
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
236 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Administrative Details (Cont’d)
For Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“18th AGM”) of Guan Chong Berhad
Appointment of Proxy
- Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your login credentials created with Boardroom Smart
Investor Portal from Step 1 above.
- Select “GUAN CHONG BERHAD (18th) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the list of Corporate Meetings
and click “Enter”.
- Click on “Submit eProxy Form”.
- Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions by clicking “Next”.
- Enter your CDS Account Number and number of securities held.
- Select your proxy – either the Chairman of the meeting or individual named proxy(ies) and enter the required
particulars of your proxy(ies).
- Indicate your voting instructions-“FOR” or “AGAINST”, otherwise your proxy will decide your vote.
- Review and confirm your proxy appointment and click “Apply”.
- Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.
Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
- Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of shareholder, CDS Account Number
accompanied with the Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy (as the case
may be) to submit the request.
- Please provide a copy of the Corporate Representative’s or Proxy Holder’s MyKad (front and back) or Passport
in JPEG, PNG or PDF format as well as his/her email address.
a. You will receive a notification from Boardroom that your request has been received and is being verified.
b. Upon system verification against the 18th AGM’s Record of Depositories, you will receive an email from
Boardroom either approving or rejecting your registration for remote participation.
c. You will also receive your remote access user ID and password along with the email from Boardroom if your
registration is approved.
d. Please note that the closing time to submit your request is at 10:00am on 29 May 2022 to avoid any delay in
the registration process.
Step 3 – Login to Virtual Meeting Portal
(Please note that the quality of the connectivity to Virtual Meeting Portal for live webcast as well as for remote
online voting is highly dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connectivity available at the
location of the remote users)
a. The Virtual Meeting portal will be open for login starting an hour (1 hour) before the commencement of
18th AGM at 9:00am on 30 May 2022.
b. Follow the steps given to you in the email along with your remote access user ID and password to login to
the Virtual Meeting portal. (Refer to Step 2(c) above).
c. The steps will also guide you on how to view live webcast, ask questions and vote.
d. The live webcast will end and the Messaging window (for asking questions) will be disabled the moment the
Chairman announces the closure of the 18th AGM.
e. You can now logout from Virtual Meeting Portal.
PARTICIPATION THROUGH LIVE WEBCAST, QUESTION AND VOTING AT THE 18TH AGM
1. The Chairman and the Board will endeavour their best to respond to the questions submitted by shareholders which
are related to the resolutions to be tabled at the 18th AGM, as well as financial performance/prospect of the Company.
2. All modes of communications are accepted for the purpose of posting questions to the Chairman and Board before
or during the 18th AGM. Shareholders are however encouraged to post questions via the online platform during the
18th AGM.
3. Shareholders may proceed to cast votes on each of the proposed resolutions, to be tabled at the 18th AGM, after the
Chairman has opened the poll on the resolutions. Shareholders are reminded to cast their votes before the poll is
closed.
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 237
4. Shareholders who participate in the 18th AGM are able to view the Company’s presentation or slides via the live
webcast.
ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE AND VOTE
In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 23 May 2022
(General Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to participate in the AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to participate and/
or vote on his/her behalf.
FORM(S) OF PROXY
1. You may download the Proxy form(s) from our website at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports.
2. If you are unable to attend the online 18th AGM and wish to appoint the Chairman of the18th AGM as your proxy
to vote on your behalf, please deposit your proxy form at the office of the company’s share registrar, Boardroom
Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200
Petaling Jaya, Selangor no later than 10.00 a.m. on 29 May 2022 (24 hours before the 18th AGM). Any alteration to
the Form of Proxy must be initialled.
3. Alternatively, the proxy appointment may also be lodged electronically at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com,
which is free and available to all individual shareholders no later than 10.00 a.m. on 29 May 2022 (24 hours before the
18th AGM). For further information, kindly refer to the “Online Registration Procedure” above.
4. If you wish to participate in the 18th AGM yourself, please do not submit any proxy form for the AGM. You will
not be allowed to participate in the 18th AGM together with a proxy appointed by you
REVOCATION OF PROXY
If you have submitted your Form(s) of Proxy and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish to participate in
our electronic 18th AGM by yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier appointed
proxy 24 hours before the meeting.
RECORDING OR PHOTOGRAPHY AT THE ONLINE AGM
No recording or photography of the AGM proceeding is allowed without the prior written permission of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2021 – GO DIGITAL & PAPERLESS!
1. As part of our dedicated commitment to sustainable practices, the Annual Report 2021 can be downloaded from our
website at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports and also at Bursa Malaysia website under “Company
Announcements”.
2. Since the 18th AGM will be conducted electronically, there will be NO DISTRIBUTION of the Annual Report 2021
during the meeting.
Administrative Details (Cont’d)
For Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“18th AGM”) of Guan Chong Berhad
Overview Introduction Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
238 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY
By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting the instrument appointing a
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member of the Company has consented to the use of such data for purposes of
processing and administration by the Company (or its agents); and to comply with any laws, listing rules, regulations and/
or guidelines. The member agrees that he/she will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims,
demands, losses and damages as a result of the shareholder’s breach of warranty.
ENQUIRY
If you have general administrative enquiries on the AGM, please contact the following during office hours:
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Office Helpdesk : +60 3 7890 4700
Encik Mohamed Sophiee Ahmad Nawawi : +60 3-7890 4716
Encik Muhammad Taufiq Lokman : +60 3-7890 4705
Fax No.		 : +60 3 7890 4670
E-mail :
:
:
bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
mohamed.sophiee@boardroomlimited.com
muhammad.taufiq@boardroomlimited.com
Administrative Details (Cont’d)
For Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“18th AGM”) of Guan Chong Berhad
REGISTRATION NO.: 200401007722 (646226-K)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
No of Shares held
CDS Account No.
I/We NRIC/Passport/Registration No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
being a member/members of GUAN CHONG BERHAD, hereby appoint
NRIC/Passport No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
and NRIC/Passport No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
or failing him/her*, the CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our* proxy to vote for me/us* on my/our* behalf at the
Eighteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be conducted entirely through live streaming from the meeting
venue at PLO 207, Jalan Tembaga Satu, Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor on Monday,
30 May 2022 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof in respect of my/our* shareholding in the manner indicated
below:-
No. Ordinary Resolution For Against
1 Approval of Directors’ fees and allowances for the financial year ending
31 December 2022
2 Payment of final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share
3 Re-election of Hia Cheng as Director
4 Re-election of Tay Hoe Lian as Director
5 Re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors
6 Authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Section 75 of the
Companies Act 2016
7 Renewal of and new shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature
8 Renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to
ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital
9 Retention of Tan Ah Lai as Independent Director
[Please indicate with a “X” in the spaces provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In
the absence of specific instructions, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit]
For appointment of two proxies, percentage of shareholdings to be represented by the proxies:
Proxy No of Shares Percentage
1
2
Total 100%
Signature of Shareholder or Common Seal
Dated this day of 2022
Affix
Stamp
The Share Registrars
Guan Chong Berhad
Registration No.: 200401007722 (646226-K)
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
Notes:
1. IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Meeting Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman of the
meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders/proxies/corporate representatives/attorneys WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at
the Meeting Venue on the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote (collectively, “participate”)
remotely at the AGM via the Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facility provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. via https://
meeting.boardroomlimited.my (Domain Registration No. with MYNIC – D6A357657)
2. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 23 May 2022 shall be regarded as members and be entitled to attend, speak and
vote at the Meeting.
3. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her
stead pursuant to Section 334 of the Act. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A member who has appointed a proxy or power of
attorney or authorised representative at the AGM via RPEV facility must request his/her proxy to register himself/herself for RPEV facility at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the Administrative Details for AGM.
4. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each
Omnibus Account it holds.
5. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented
by each proxy. If the appointor is a corporation, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly
authorised. In the event the member(s) duly executes the proxy form but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be deemed to have appointed
the Chairman of the meeting as his/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the proxy form, other than the particulars of the proxy have been duly
completed by the member(s).
6. To be valid, the duly completed proxy form or power of attorney or certificate of appointment of corporate representatives must be deposited at the
Share Registrars of the Company situated at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
or by electronic lodgement via https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time for holding the meeting as
Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be
put to vote by poll. Please refer to the Administrative Details for AGM on the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form or power of attorney or
certificate of appointment of corporate representatives.
Personal Data Privacy
By submitting the proxy form, the member or proxy accepts and agrees to the collection, use and disclosure of their personal data by the Company (or its
agents or service providers) for the purpose of preparation and compilation of documents relating to the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (including any
adjournment thereof).
PLO 273, Jalan Timah Dua,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia.
Tel : +6 07 254 8888 I Email : info@gcbcocoa.com
www.gcbcocoa.com
200401007722 (646226-K)
