GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
93
GROWING SUSTAINABLY:
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
TACKLING CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL RISKS &
LEVERAGING OPPORTUNITIES
Our commitment to delivering sustained quality growth
whilst maintaining sustainable business practices and
high industry standards is underscored by our stringent
approach to responsible governance. Our robust
structure ensures that business operations remain fully
compliant to all applicable regulations, ethical business
conduct is upheld, and the integrity of our disclosures
is sustained across all our various subsidiaries and
within all the regions where we operate.
Combining the collective efforts of the Board, the CFO,
the Finance and Administration Department and our
executive-level managers, our governance structure
enables the Group to effectively coordinate, monitor
and review all business activities and practices. At
the same time, our implementation of the Code and
Anti-Corruption Policy serves to further promote
responsible business practices throughout our
operations and maintain the sustainability of our core
business activities.
Stringent Governance to
Promote Responsible Value Creation
WHY IT MATTERS
In a world that is constantly evolving and progressing, we
remain committed to delivering robust shared value to all of
our trusted shareholders. A key component of our approach
is to ensure we constantly conduct our business in the
most competent and responsible manner possible, while
diligently reinvesting our resources into our businesses and
our people to achieve sustainable long-term growth.
At the same time, we have expanded our scope to
profoundly consider the impact of climate-related risks
to our economic performance, both the inherent physical
risks that climate change poses to our agricultural resources
as well as the emerging set of transition risks that reflect
the increasing stringency of regulations and mounting
expectations from stakeholders and customers.
By reappraising our approach into one that is more holistic
and far-ranging, we are better empowered to overcome
future challenges that may arise and pre-emptively mitigate
potential risks to our economic health.
OUR APPROACH
As a key global player in the food and agricultural
sector, climate-related risks have an especially profound
relationship with our business operations and potential
impact on our economic performance. Recognising that
both transitional risks and physical risks may influence
our performance, we have pledged to keep the financial
implications associated with climate change risks at the
forefront of our considerations when making everyday
business decisions.
To this end, we have prepared an actionable framework
that effectively guides our efforts to address their impacts
and ensure the principles of sustainability remain staunchly
embedded in our practices at all times.
Sustainability Report
Read more:
Snapshot of FY2022: Financial & Non-Financial
Performance Highlights, page 17
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
94
Sustainability Report
Having acknowledged the intrinsic relationship between climate change related risks and our economic
performance, we have further implemented a framework that enables us to successfully meet our regulatory and
stakeholder expectations while simultaneously achieving our growth objectives.
Through this synergistic approach, we are able to harness new business opportunities, manage and enhance
existing stakeholders’ confidence, maintain a highly motivated and vibrant workforce, and reach outcomes that
ensure the long-term progress and viability of our business.
A Framework to Address Climate-Related Risks
Recognising and Mitigating Transition Risks
Transitional risks are those that have come to the
fore as the private sector begins to play a central role
in alleviating the potential impact of climate change.
During this transition, investors are demanding
greater transparency and there is heightened focus
on adherence to evolving environmental and social
rules and regulations.
Companies that do not adapt to shifting consumer
demands for sustainable and ethical products risk
seeing a decline in demand and revenue, while an
inability to meet regulations or being perceived as
not taking action could result in reputational damage,
a loss in market share or even legal complications.
GCB is committed to pre-emptively identifying such
potential risks and consistently monitors global
trends and shifting regulations while assessing
internal controls to ensure ongoing compliance.
We want to nurture a collective effort across the
Group, and have undertaken initiatives to improve
sustainability awareness and capabilities within
our operations. In line with this, we are pleased to
have participated in a Roundtable Discussion on
sustainability and climate related matters organised
by MICPA on 14 June 2022, which allowed us to
engage meaningfully with industry standard setters
and contribute our learnings and insights to them.
We have also taken steps forward in leveraging
climate-change related opportunities within the
current market landscape, such as opting for
green financing schemes and taking advantage of
government incentives to shift to renewable energy.
Looking to inspire change from the grassroots
level, we are also involved in promoting responsible
conduct within our supply chain, and utilise our
GC&B Program to enhance regulatory compliance
at local farms.
Taking Preventive Action Against Physical Risks
The physical effect of a changing climate poses an
existential threat to the long-term viability of food
and agriculture industries. The onset of a change in
global temperature has the potential to affect farmer
yields in a variety of ways, depending on the region.
One of our key efforts in this area is to assist
smallholder farmers within our supply chain to
enhance their capacity and capabilities to respond
to potential future challenges. Via our GC&B
Program initiative, we have supported climate-smart
agriculture projects within our value chains and
collaborated with local cocoa farmers to boost their
production and increase their financial resilience.
We also appreciate the importance of optimising
our use of natural resources and energy to preserve
our climate and closely monitor our usage of
resources as a cocoa processor. Further details on
our management of energy, water and waste are
outlined in dedicated sections of this report.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
95
OUR PERFORMANCE
MYR (RM'000) 2020 2021 2022
Direct economic value generated: revenues (A) 3,797 3,989 4,518
Revenue 1 3,685 3,923 4,420
Other income 2 112 66 98
Economic value distributed (B) 3,593 3,848 4,380
Operating costs 3 3,362 3,601 4,130
Employee wages and benefits 4 145 157 142
Payments to providers of capital 5 26 33 56
Payments to government 6 60 57 52
Economic value retained (C)=(A)-(B) 204 141 138
Sustainability Report
Notes:
1 Read more: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Revenue, page 169
2 Read more: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Other income, page 169
3 Read more: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Cost of sales, Selling and distribution costs,
Administrative expenses and Other expense, page 169 & Notes to the Financial Statements - Note 30 Employee Benefits, page 240
(Operating costs = Cost of sales + Selling and distribution costs + Administrative expenses + Other expenses - Employee benefits)
4 Read more: Notes to the Financial Statements - Note 30 Employee Benefits, page 240
5 Read more: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Finance costs, page 169
6 Read more: Statement of Cash Flows - Tax paid, page 174
* Economic performance based on overall Group financial information.
Read more:
Financial Statement, page 155
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
96
FAIR HIRING PRACTICES:
MARKET PRESENCE
DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH INDIRECT ECONOMIC
CONTRIBUTION
WHY IT MATTERS
Given the wide span of our global cocoa operations, we
have an important responsibility – and opportunity – to
build a positive and sustainable market presence in the
communities and regions in which we operate. We want
to have a meaningful influence on the livelihoods of our
global employees, and that starts by providing them with
a just, respectful, and safe work environment that upholds
the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work and the United Nations Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights.
We also contribute economic benefits to local communities
through the wages we provide, which brings direct impact
to society and helps to safeguard our people’s wellbeing.
To this end, we remain committed to being an equal
opportunity employer that provides wages that are fair and
distributed without discrimination.
OUR APPROACH
We recognise that it is the fundamental right of all humans
to receive fair wages that enable them to maintain a decent
standard of living, with necessities such as shelter, food and
clothing within their means. From a business perspective,
we also believe employees that feel justifiably rewarded will
be more productive and carry out their tasks dutifully and
with focus on their dedicated roles.
Ensuring our People are Valued
Our employees are the engine that drive the success
of our operations, and we place great emphasis
on providing a fairly compensated working
environment throughout our subsidiaries. As a
Group with operations in multiple regions, we first
and foremost ensure robust adherence to minimum
wage requirements as stipulated by local legislation
in the jurisdictions.
Our HRA Department oversees the execution of
GCB’s Group-wide social commitments, and helps to
ensure full and ongoing adherence to fundamental
human rights and ethical workplace standards. Our
dedicated Finance and Administration Department,
with the coordination and support of the HRA
Department, manages all matters related to wages,
including helping to ensure that our wages remain
consistent and fair.
While the Group consults the latest market trends and
practices to determine its remuneration structure,
we also proactively seek out new ways to further
align our remuneration structures with our values
of equality and non-discrimination. To this end, the
base salaries for all our employees are continuously
evaluated and adjusted according to various factors,
such as job requirements, market conditions,
educational qualifications and experience. Our
approach to employee remuneration is further
guided by the values embodied in the Code.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
97
Fair Hiring Practice for All
In addition to ensuring fair wages are distributed, we are also committed to upholding ethical hiring procedures.
This includes having a Zero Recruitment Fee Policy, only engaging with ethical recruiters and safeguarding workers
from any type of coercion, intimidation, or misrepresentation during their application process with us. As part of
the policy, we place further emphasis on ensuring no migrant worker is required to pay any recruitment, hiring, or
employment fees.
Due to our zero-tolerance approach, we strictly require all recruitment agencies that we engage to commit to
upholding our human rights practices, especially where foreign workers are concerned, and place value on the
rights of all employees to be provided with a safe and just working environment.
Establishing Open Communication
We believe in engaging openly and transparently
with our employees and they are encouraged to
share relevant feedback on matters pertaining to
remuneration during annual employee appraisals
with their respective supervisors. We have
established clear and effective grievance policies
and procedures that internal stakeholders may
use to communicate their concerns in a safe and
confidential manner without fear of intimidation,
harassment or termination of employment. This is
another reflection of our commitment to welcome
feedback, as we believe such an open environment
will enable continuous improvements of our
processes. It also shows our strong commitment to
maintain an engaged workforce that is responsive to
our social and corporate responsibility objectives.
Contributing to our Community
As part of our aspiration to have a positive market
presence in the regions where we operate, we
also undertake outreach initiatives that extend our
community support further. To undertake this task
meaningfully, we have established a dedicated CSR
Team that will execute various programs that may
provide support to our external stakeholders and the
surrounding communities. We aspire to continually
expandourCSRreach,seekingtoprovidemeaningful
support through community involvement projects.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Fair Living Wage and Compensation
GCB ensures compliance with regional minimum wage
requirements across all subsidiaries. Additionally, we uphold
our commitment to equal employment opportunities
by offering equal entry-level wages to all employees,
regardless of gender or nationality, promoting productive
employment and equitable work practices for both men
and women.
To better appreciate the needs of our surrounding
communities, we understand the importance of hiring
senior management from the local talent pool. We also
invest in developing the skills and knowledge of local
employees at all levels of the organisation. Through this
management development strategy, we aim to cultivate
effective local leaders who can successfully fulfil their roles
and responsibilities within the Group.
Our Outreach Initiatives
We undertook a variety of outreach initiatives during
FY2022 that truly underscore our commitment to positively
impact our society. We are especially dedicated to providing
support to youth and vulnerable groups, as we hope the
seeds of our contributions may sow a brighter future for
these individuals and communities. The following are some
of the key initiatives undertaken during the past year.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
98
Program Target Group Contributions
Nurturing Youth Youth • We provided a token of support to this organisation that is entirely
run by youth and for youth in order to develop their leadership
potential
• We hope our support will provide a catalyst for this organisation's
progress, and open new paths for the betterment of future
generations
AIESEC Speak Up
Project
Youth • This project aimed to boost the confidence of participants while
building awareness on the importance of Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics ("STEM") education among
Malaysian youths
• Our support for this educational initiative was through the
contribution of donation, educational materials and supplies to
the participants
AIESEC Light a
Refugee’s Dream
Project
Refugee children • This important project aimed to bring hope to refugee children
in Malaysia and improve the quality of their lives through proper
education
• To help these refugee students, we provided electronic devices
that could be used for learning and education
1000 Enterprises for
Children-in-need,
Singapore Children’s
Society
Children • GCB provided support of approximately RM19,000 for a diverse
number of programs and outreach services aimed at helping
underprivileged children
• Our support helped to enhance the development and care
received by these children, which included their education, food
and shelter needs
Community Support
We take pride in being a responsible corporate entity that cares about the community and recognises the importance of
giving back to society, especially to those that need it most. The following contributions were made by GCB during FY2022.
Program Target Group Contributions
UM Baktisiswa
Monetary
Sponsorship Program
– Silver Package
Rural communities The monetary contribution we provided was utilised for:
• Offering basic healthcare services
• Instilling awareness on the importance of healthcare in
participating rural communities
Mercy Malaysia
Flood Respond and
Recovery
Flood victims Through our involvement, we:
• Distributed hygiene kits worth RM20,000 (under WASH
component) for flood victims in Kampung Bawah Lembah and
Perumahan Taman Mesra, Kelantan
• Provided emergency aid that helped over a hundred families
Donation to SJK(T)
Ladang Lambak
Students Through the donation of approximately RM20,000, we:
• Initiated the installation of electronics, and distribution of books,
beverages and shopping vouchers
• Aided the improvement of school facilities which benefited over
65 students and 10 teachers
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
99
RESPONSIBLE COCOA SUPPLY CHAIN:
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
OUR RESPONSIBLE COCOA PROCUREMENT STRATEGY
AND GC&B INITIATIVE
WHY IT MATTERS
In line with our growing global footprint, we desire to utilise our influence across our cocoa supply chain to generate
positive impacts within the significant locations of operations where we source our goods and services. To achieve this, we
have implemented standards that support and encourage our suppliers to adopt best practices across the cocoa sourcing
process. In doing so, we are able to play a meaningful role towards safeguarding the future supply of cocoa and promoting
a vibrant, sustainable cocoa industry.
There are many aspects of the cocoa industry, stretching from agriculture and the sourcing stage to manufacturing and
processing and finally to distribution, with each of these enabling us to contribute to the livelihoods of people in local
communities as we strive to procure from local suppliers where we operate.
GAP and Farm
Management
Low farmer income continues to be a global issue within agricultural industries, and this is
certainly a concern in cocoa producing regions as well. Hence, for a sustainable cocoa supply
chain, it is important to empower farmers to build a resilient livelihood. In relation to that, GC&B
Program offers:
• Capacity-building for farmers on GAP
• Training in business skills and farm management
• Support for income diversification
Human Rights Human rights must be respected and protected to achieve responsible and sustainable cocoa
supply and production. There is therefore a crucial need for better education and training within
cocoa communities to improve human rights practices. GC&B Program aims to help by:
• Providing broader social justice education and training within farmer communities
• Promoting, monitoring and remediating human right violations
• Contributing to community-driven development
Deforestation and
Climate Change
Deforestation and climate change are global concerns for the cocoa industry. This is epitomised
by the decline of approximately 90% of forest in Côte d'Ivoire’s cocoa growing regions over the
past 30 years. Our programme aims to urge greater action from industry players through:
• Promoting public-private collaboration to identify good practices
• Providing technical guidance and incentive mechanisms for forest protection, restoration and
agroforestry
• Educating on the importance of increasing tree cover to sequester carbon and preserve
resources
Traceability and
Transparency
Traceability and transparency ensure that sustainability criteria in a cocoa supply chain is fulfilled.
Our contributions in this area via GC&B enables:
• Due diligence for regional requirements such as the European Union's General Food Law
• Continuous cocoa production to be secured whilst meeting all the regulations and requirement
of sustainable and responsible cocoa production
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
100
OUR APPROACH
At a policy level, we leverage on our Supplier Code of
Conduct to set our expectations for all suppliers to comply
with international labour and human rights laws, while
encouraging them to set high standards for health, safety
and environmental management. Simultaneously, our
Sustainable Procurement Policy and Procedure makes sure
that we place emphasis on sustainability-related criteria
when assessing new suppliers and tracking the performance
of those already in our supply chain.
In extension to this, we leverage on our GC&B Program to
drivemeaningfulprogresstowardsamoresustainableglobal
cocoa industry within four strategic pillars that address
our fundamental economic, social and environmental
challenges.
Improving
Farmer Income
Protecting
the Environment
Benefitting Farmers
& their Communities
Providing
Responsible Cocoa
In our belief that a collective effort can make a bigger impact, we are committed to working in partnership with suppliers
and customers to achieve our goals, while also participating in industry-wide sustainability initiatives and implementing
direct origin sustainability programs.
To achieve sustainable cocoa production, we must
address the current concerns of many cocoa farmers,
namely low yields and low incomes. GC&B Program
has adopted a multi-pronged approach to remedy
the situation, with the following actions being taken:
• Building farmer capacities to adopt GAPs and
strengthen their business skills
• Unlocking opportunities for them to receive
premium payments by enhancing their farm
management
• Encouraging income diversification for
participating farmers to improve their livelihoods
Nurturing thriving cocoa-growing communities is
the key to achieving sustainable cocoa production,
and our program is dedicated to alleviating the
primary social challenges that many communities
face. Our current initiatives include:
• Supporting communities to drive their own
development
• Strategic plans and efforts to identify and
remediate the cases of child labour
• Promoting women’s empowerment with the
view to eventually establish active women’s
associations
• Improving infrastructure and access to services in
origin countries
STRATEGIC PILLAR 1
Improving Farmer Income
STRATEGIC PILLAR 2
Benefitting Farmers & their Communities
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
101
We recognize that the protection and preservation
of natural resources is a primary component for
achieving sustainable cocoa production and we
continue to work with partners to safeguard the
health of our Earth. Our initiatives include:
• Being a signatory of CFI, by which we commit
to achieve no cocoa-driven deforestation, nor
conversion of other natural ecosystems in our
direct supply chains by 2030
• Providing training on GAPs as well as forest
protection and agroforestry to heighten
environmental stewardship
• Promoting the adoption of climate change
preventive measures at the farmer level, which
will enhance crop resilience in a changing climate
• Collaborating with industry players to improve
environmental practices and uncover sustainable
climate change solutions across the cocoa supply
chain
For GCB, providing responsible cocoa means
establishing a truly sustainable cocoa supply chain,
from the production of beans all the way to the
end product acquired by customers. We have set
ourselves the target of providing 100% responsible
and sustainable cocoa in our direct supply chain by
2030, and we aspire to achieve this by improving
farmer income, benefitting farmers and their
communities and protecting the environment.
These targets and efforts must be accompanied
by tools that facilitate full traceability and
transparency of the supply chain. This is enabled
by our implementation of Digital Management
and Traceability Systems, which provides a clear
representation of the sustainability activities being
undertaken, along with transparency on financial
support such as premium payments. This is
further complemented by third-party audits and
certifications that provide a more robust guarantee
that sustainability standards are met.
STRATEGIC PILLAR 3
Protecting the Environment
STRATEGIC PILLAR 4
Providing Responsible Cocoa
Our progress will be consistently assessed and reviewed by our GC&B Sustainability Committee, which will focus on
ensuring the ongoing relevancy of our objectives while promoting full integration of these values across our activities. We
have adopted an inclusive committee structure as pictured below in order to place accountability at the forefront of our
efforts at every step of the journey.
Chairman
Promotion &
Communication
Origin
Operation
Customer Care
& Service
Quality
Assurance
Certification
Assurance
OUR PERFORMANCE
As an industrial player in the cocoa sector, GCB is committed to foster sustainability throughout the cocoa supply chain.
We want the cocoa fields from which we source our cocoa to constantly progress and improve in terms of farming
practices, labour work, access to financial literacy and services, and environmental protection measures.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
102
Climate-Smart and Financial
Improving Agricultural Practices
Our GC&B Program is farmer-focused and seeks to
support cocoa farmers and affected vulnerable groups.
In partnership with our customers, we have worked with
11,493 farmers in our direct supply chain over the course of
2022 to give them the tools and resources they require to
embrace sustainable agricultural techniques.
The 7,816 farmers who have been reached by GAP
training programs have certainly benefited from the
GC&B Program. These training programs give farmers the
skills and knowledge they need to advance their farming
methods, thus enhancing output and income. Farmers can
increase the quality and quantity of their cocoa beans with
the use of GAP, which raises the value of their product.
The program also encourages the use of environmentally
conscious pest management techniques and fertilizers,
which increases soil health and has a reduced negative
impact on the environment.
GAP training programs have advantages for communities.
Farmers are able to reinvest in their communities, fostering
economic growth and bettering social outcomes, as they
increase their income and improve their quality of life. This
benefits all stakeholders engaged in the supply chain by
fostering a more sustainable economy.
To further support the objectives of our program, 59,000
multipurpose trees were distributed for on-farm planting in
collaboration with GCB’s customers. While tree plantation
will play a role in improving the health of farms and cocoa
trees, we also aim to increase the economic resilience of
farmers by creating an additional source of income aside
from cocoa. As a result, the farmers are now empowered
with the knowledge and skills to increase cocoa growing
with lesser land space, while simultaneously being more
financially equipped to adapt to and mitigate the impact of
climate change.
Social Rights Achievement
GCB supports the efforts to ensure social rights of cocoa
farmers we associate with are met. Within our GC&B
program, this aspiration is demonstrated through the
performance of the communities in terms of human rights
recognition and women empowerment.
I. Human Rights Recognition
GC&B demonstrates our commitment to improving the
livelihoods of the cocoa farmers who supply us with our
cocoa beans. In 2022, we took significant steps to address
social and governance issues in cocoa farming communities,
particularly in relation to child and forced labour.
Our efforts included providing training on human rights
issues and distributing 1,000 school kits to communities
in order to encourage farmers to prioritise the education
of their children. We also recorded 6,351 households in
farmer groups covered by CLMRS, which contributes
towards our efforts to curb child labour and exploitation
in cocoa farming activities. Additionally, we have provided
comprehensive life insurance coverage for our network of
over 5,000 cocoa farmers, increasing their level of security
and resilience especially in times of acute crisis, such
as accidents, illness or death. As smallholder farmers are
often located in remote areas, they are largely unable to
access such financial products during times of crisis. This
insurance protection aims to offer them and their families
some peace of mind.
To increase financial literacy for farming communities
and their access to finance, we organised targeted
training sessions that were attended by 1,406 members
from farmer groups. Furthermore, we have partnered
with key stakeholders in the cocoa industry to promote
greater traceability and transparency in the supply chain.
As an active participant in industry-wide initiatives, we
collaborate on solutions to common challenges and share
best practices to benefit cocoa farming communities.
II. Women empowerment in farming
communities
In cocoa-growing areas, we have collaborated with our
customers to support the establishment of VSLA groups
with more than 1,200 women as members, giving them
access to financial services and assisting in the improvement
of their socioeconomic situation.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
103
Farmers, especially women, now have a dedicated
platform to convene, learn from one another, and obtain
financial services that would otherwise be out of reach
for them. Members of VSLA groups can access small
loans, save money, and invest in businesses that generate
income by pooling their resources. Increased economic
empowerment and income can result from this, giving
women more control over their life and elevating their
social standing in their communities.
Beyond the individual members, VSLA also benefits their
families and communities. Women with additional income
can better support their family, resulting in improved
nutrition, access to healthcare, and education. This may
result in better social outcomes and well-being for the
entire community.
Women are crucial in the production and preparation of
cocoa beans, yet they frequently encounter challenges
when trying to access resources and services. Through
the provision of financial support to underserved female
communities in our supply chain, the GC&B Program helps
to advance gender equality and women's empowerment in
cocoa farming regions, nurturing a more sustainable and
just supply chain.
GC&B Program Impact Unit 2022
Farmers within direct supply
chain
number 11,493
Farmers benefitted from
GAP Training Programs
number 7,816
Households covered by
Human Rights Due Diligence
systems that assess and
address child labour
number 6,351
Community members who
participated in women's
empowerment projects
number 1,230
Cocoa agroforestry in
development
ha 4,057
Area within the direct supply
chain with deforestation risk
assessments completed
ha 31,309
Multi-purpose trees
distributed for on-farm
planting
number 59,048
Comprehensive life
insurance provided to
farmers
number 5,531
Sustainability Report
Forest Preservation and Protection
In playing our part as CFI signatory, GCB through our GC&B
Program has conducted deforestation risk assessments
on the farms from which we source our cocoa beans.
Participating farmers map their farms and ensure that their
farming activities do not infiltrate forest areas. As a result, we
have completed deforestation risk assessments on 31,309
hectares within our direct supply chain, which has enabled
us to identify and mitigate any potential deforestation risks.
Our program has aided the development of cocoa
agroforestry systems on 4,057 hectares of cocoa farms,
which encourages the coexistence of trees and crops while
enhancing the resilience and productivity of the farms.
This is also complemented by GAP trainings on climate-
smart farming skills to improve yields and incomes while
combating deforestation. Our training and awareness-
raising on forest protection and restoration managed to
reach over 4,000 participants during the year, which will
play a role in enhancing their future farming practices.
Traceability and Supply Chain
Transparency
We are dedicated to making a positive impact by enhancing
the traceability of cocoa ingredients, which in turn will lead
to transparency in our cocoa supply chain. We believe that
by taking action towards this goal, we can ensure that our
operations are sustainable and contribute to a better future
for all.
GC&B Program has been instrumental in helping us achieve
our aspirations, by putting in place a digital traceability
system that allows us to monitor the upstream cocoa
supply chain. With the use of this system, we are able to
gather information that includes the coordinates of the
cocoa farms and the identity of the farmers and their family.
We have begun to work closely with an external partner to
expand our survey and mapping efforts in order to identify
human rights violations or environmental concerns in our
direct supply chain.
GCB has also deployed an integrated digital deforestation
monitoring system that leverages satellite data to help us
confirm the veracity of our information and address any
issues. This goes in line with GCB’s commitment to achieving
no cocoa-driven deforestation, nor conversion of other
natural ecosystems in our direct supply chains by 2030.
Note:
Significant locations of operations refer to areas where manufacturing
facilities and offices are present.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
104
Sustainability Report
RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS PRACTICES:
ANTI-CORRUPTION, NON-DISCRIMINATION &
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
FOSTERING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES THROUGHOUT
OUR VALUE CHAIN
WHY IT MATTERS
Upholding strong corporate governance represents a
fundamental component of our efforts to advance ESG
considerations and contribute to sustainable development.
By implementing responsible and ethical practices and
principles from our leadership down to all subsidiaries, we
can ensure the stability and efficiency of our operations and
build a strong reputation in the eyes of our stakeholders.
Our initiatives take into account a full spectrum of
considerations, including human rights, the environment,
health, safety, labor, taxation and fair competition, and
extend beyond legal or regulatory frameworks as we go
the extra mile to ensure our growing operations provide
shared social, economic and environmental benefits to
surrounding communities.
OUR APPROACH
We have developed and implemented various Group-wide
policies that underscore our commitment to maintain
ethical business operations at all times and effectively
manage anti-corruption and discrimination risks. These
include our Business Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct,
Anti-Corruption Policy, Gender Diversity Policy and
Succession Planning Policy and Procedure amongst others.
The Code and other relevant policies provide clear
guidelines for the responsible and professional conduct
that we expect from GCB employees and contractors
around the world. Our policies represent the high
standard that we have set for the GCB Group and we
expect cooperation from all employees in maintaining
these standards and remaining compliant with all laws
and regulations within their operating region.
We make sure to properly inform all relevant
stakeholders, including but not limited to employees,
suppliers, vendors and contractors, of our governance
policies throughout their engagement with the Group.
New employees are briefed on existing policies during
the onboarding process, while we also undertake
routine annual refreshers to keep employees aware
of policy updates and whistleblowing procedures.
Additionally, policies that set forth our ethical
commitments are also made publicly available on our
corporate website.
Commitment to Compliance
We regularly review and update our policies as and
when necessary, in order to maintain strict compliance
with new regulations and address any updates to
existing regulations. These changes or enhancements
are incorporated into operational procedures by our
Corporate Governance team and communicated to
stakeholders to enhance awareness and promote the
adoption of best practices into our culture.
Routine Policies Review and Update
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
105
Sustainability Report
Preserving non-discrimination and equal
opportunity
GCB has continued to foster an atmosphere free from all
forms of harassment, bullying, and illegal discrimination in
the workplace, with all our production facilities recording
zero cases of discrimination during FY2022. Our Business
Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct makes it clear that
engagement in or support of discrimination against an
employee based on their distinguishing characteristics will
not be tolerated. Dignity and respect should be extended
to every employee, and we ensure such mutual respect and
understanding is similarly enjoyed by each client, customer,
and contractor.
We have embedded these principles across our operations,
with all practices related to hiring, compensation, benefits,
training, advancement and promotion, along with
disciplining, termination, and retirement, being grounded
in pertinent and objective standards as per the guidelines
of the Code. To this end, we have continued to ensure that
all existing or potential employees are provided with equal
opportunities when it comes to their employment and
career advancement.
Maintaining exemplary standards of
business conduct
Throughout FY2022, GCB successfully operated at the
desired level of professionalism and integrity, recording
zero instances of business misconduct, whether corruption,
bribery, anti-competitive or unethical behavior. Leveraging
on our Group-wide Anti-Corruption Policy and the Code,
we have continued to enforce compliance to regional
laws and regulations at all our entities and reinforce our
contributions to the development of effective, accountable
and transparent institutions at all levels.
We are proud to report that 100% of our employees have
received corruption mitigation training, with new hires
informed during the onboarding process and annual
refreshers held each year to ensure all employees remain
aware of their responsibilities and our whistleblowing
channels. We have also conducted external audits on
our corruption and bribery risks to safeguard compliance
across our operations.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Incidents Reported 2020 - 2022
Corruption
No incidents reported
Discrimination
Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
106
TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE:
ENERGY & EMISSIONS
UNDERSTANDING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
WHY IT MATTERS
Humanity faces a defining challenge in our efforts to
reduce the impacts of climate change, and the actions of
corporate citizens and the private sector are becoming
more and more crucial. A major contributor to climate
change is carbon emissions, which can have a significant
impact on the planet.
GCB is committed to contributing meaningfully in this
transition towards lesser emissions and greater sustainability
in our role as a global cocoa processor. Conscious of the
energy requirements of our business operations, especially
since the cost of energy consumption can be significant
for industrial manufacturers, we are constantly expanding
our efforts to reduce our use of energy and accelerate
the adoption of renewable energy within our processing
facilities. We also recognize the importance of developing
climate-smart agricultural practices at the grassroots levels,
and leveraging on our unique position to engage our
suppliers and drive positive changes towards a low-carbon
economy.
OUR APPROACH
As we embark on our transition towards lowering our
carbon footprint, we are taking the necessary steps to
understand our operational emissions and identifying
key areas for reduction. As part of our holistic efforts, we
have elevated climate change as a corporate priority and
are enhancing our energy management and oversight,
improving our data collection and emission tracking, and
leveraging on new technology.
Sustainability Report
Robust Energy Management
We recognise the importance of carefully monitoring
and managing our energy consumption in order to
drive continual improvement and have accordingly
set up robust energy management and data
collection systems across all subsidiaries covered in
this report.
Our multipronged approach targets increased
energy efficiency in all the current forms of energy
we consume, which includes electricity, gas and
steam, while simultaneously promoting a concerted
effort to switch to renewable energy sources. To
inculcate a collective Group-wide commitment
from all employees, our Environmental Policy guides
our efforts in raising awareness and educating our
employees on the importance of sustainable energy
consumption and the recommended best practices.
Backed by this framework for effective energy
management, we are consistently evolving our
approach and optimising our energy consumption
processes to ensure we remain updated with the
latest global practices and regulatory developments.
As such, our manufacturing facility in Germany has
been certified in ISO 50001 for Energy Management
System.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
107
Embedding Climate Change
as a Corporate Priority
Climate change, and consequently our energy
and emissions performance, continues to be key
material matter underpinning the sustainability of our
business. The risk of climate change to our business
operations, along with the control measures that
have been put into place, are therefore routinely
monitored by the SD and reported to the ERM.
At the same time, our Sustainable Procurement
Policy and Procedure encourages all suppliers
and vendors to make similar commitments to
responsible production and the upholding of
ethical business practices. We engage and steer
our suppliers to improve their environmental
management by encouraging the efficient use of
energy and natural resources to minimise their
respective environmental impact.
We have made progress in our efforts to fully
appreciate and account for the entire scope of
our carbon emissions. We have already effectively
determined the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from
the operations of our significant manufacturing sites.
Looking ahead, we will continue to broaden the
scope of our monitoring and reporting of emissions.
Leveraging Technology and
Growing our Expertise
Minimising our energy usage through the
optimisation of our operational efficiency is a core
strategy to lower our carbon emissions. Our efforts
here are enabled through a Group-wide energy
usage tracking system, which empowers us to
carefully track the sources of our carbon emissions
to analyse and implement solutions that may lead to
a future reduction.
To further improve our energy management
capabilities and expertise, we are investing in
expanding our energy team in order to effectively
manage and roll out initiatives across our global
operations. This growth in our expertise will
be complemented by increasing application of
renewable energy sources to reflect GCB’s transition
towards a low carbon model.
Our current focus includes maximising the solar
energy that we generate, and we have begun
maximising our roof space for solar panels at our
Asian premises, and will continue to scale our efforts
at our new production facilities.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Energy
Energy consumption and utilisation is the most prominent cause of global carbon emissions. Guided by our Environmental
Policy, GCB monitors and seeks to consistently optimise the amount of energy consumed during our operational and
production processes without compromising on the quality of our product. In line with increased production output, we
recorded higher overall energy consumption during FY2022, but we were simultaneously successful in increasing our
utilisation of electricity powered from solar panels by 2,134 GJ compared to the previous reporting period.
With production ramping up to meet increased demand from recovering economies, Group-wide energy consumption
also increased to keep pace with operational requirements. The increase in consumption was primarily driven by an
increase in our manufacturing capacities across bean grinding and industrial chocolate processes, resulting in significantly
higher product output compared to 2021. However, some of this increment is also due to our inclusion of GCB Foods into
the Group’s reporting scope in FY2022 to complete our coverage of all manufacturing operations in Asia.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
108
Yearly Energy Consumption (GJ)
Renewable
Non-
Renewable
2020
66,967
690,920
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
-
2021
118,159
764,165
2022
112,537
808,519
Group Energy Intensity (GJ/MT of Product)
3.6
3.0 3.0
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
Intensity
per unit of
product
2020 2021 2022
Sustainability Report
Energy Consumption by Region (GJ)
Biomass
Solar
Energy
Electricity
Steam
Purchased
Natural
Gas
105,547
Malaysia
205,149
7,284
220,883
6,991
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
-
121,932
Indonesia
173,649
66,694
Germany
2,218
10,692
* Reporting scope expanded to include Schokinag in 2021 and GCB Foods in 2022
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
109
GCB has consistently increased the amount of renewable energy sourced from our solar panel and biomass boilers each year
as we continue to invest in renewable energy to reduce our environmental footprint. For FY2022 alone, our generation of
renewable energy accumulated to approximately 112,537 GJ, representing 12% of overall Group-wide energy consumption.
The amount of solar energy we harnessed increased by 44%, from 4,857 GJ to 6,991 GJ, attributable to our push to install
solar panels on available roof spaces across Malaysia production facilities. Meanwhile, we have also reduced reliance on
non-renewable natural gas consumption across the Group, which is mostly thanks to the contributions of biomass boilers
in our Malaysian production facilities that generate steam from cocoa shells waste.
No significant fluctuations were recorded in our energy consumption intensity by product output, as we closely monitored
our energy usage despite the capacity increase. We will strive to continue improving our energy efficiency by means of
adopting more efficient use of energy resources, lowering fuel waste through optimisation of the heating process, and
developing better process controls.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
110
GHG Emission
As a manufacturing entity, GCB is aware of the impacts of our emissions to the environment. With the objective of closely
monitoring and minimising our emissions trajectory, GCB has started tracking its emissions generated from significant
sources. All major sources of emissions from energy generation are accounted for within GCB’s internal data system.
GHG Emissions (mt CO
2
e) 2022
Scope 1 - Biogenic Emission (tCO
2
e) 9,499
Scope 1 - Other Stationary Emissions (tCO
2
e) 20,171
Total Scope 1 Emission (tCO
2
e) 1 29,670
Scope 2 - Purchased Electricity* (tCO
2
e) 2 66,848
Scope 2 - Heat Purchased (tCO
2
e) 1,131
Total Scope 2 Emission (tCO
2
e) 67,979
Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (tCO
2
e) 97,649
Emission Intensity of Products (tCO
2
e/MT) 0.32
In FY2022, our emissions (scope 1 and 2) totalled up to 97,649 tCO
2
e. As a manufacturing powerhouse, GCB recognises
that our capacity expansion will correlate with an increase in energy and emissions. We are therefore looking to capitalise
on more innovative opportunities to reduce emissions, with our embrace of renewable energy signalling our commitment
to power our growth responsibly.
Amongst all our production facilities, we have identified our cocoa processing facilities as requiring the highest operational
energy consumption and have invested in technologies such as solar and biomass to diversify our energy mix and minimise
our reliance on non-renewable and emission intensive fuels. Our efforts have helped us raise our proportion of clean
renewable energy used by 12% since 2020, reflecting an increase of 45,571 GJ over the span of 3 years.
GCB remains committed to meaningfully curbing the emissions we generate within our operational boundary and will
build upon the positive momentum and progress achieved by continuing to adopt energy improvement measures and
leveraging low-carbon solutions so we can positively impact the environment and communities within which we operate.
Notes:
1. Scope 1 - Stationary emission sources include natural gas, cocoa shells, diesel, liquefied petroleum gas and refrigerants.
Computed based on emissions factors published by UK DEFRA, US EPA and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) AR5.
2. Scope 2 - Purchased electricity based on market-based emission factors, except Indonesia.
* Location-based electricity purchased emissions (77,068 tCO2e) computed based on:
- Carbon Footprint Country Specific Electricity Grid Greenhouse gas Emission Factors for Germany
- Institute for Global Environmental Strategies 2022 List of Grid Emissions Factor for Malaysia and Indonesia
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
111
WHY IT MATTERS
Water is truly the foundation of humanity, supporting not
only our existence but the existence of the plants, animals
and natural ecosystems that we rely on. As a manufacturing
business that relies on a steady supply of water to run our
operations, we recognise the intrinsic role that water plays
in our long-term sustainability and place great emphasis on
ensuring our water and effluents are managed responsibly.
This is becoming increasingly important especially as water
risks become a pressing issue on a global scale. With climate
change further accelerating global water-related concerns,
GCB understands the need to reduce and optimise water
consumption, manage our water resources in a more
sustainable manner and ensure that our water usage or
discharge does not impact the health and biodiversity of
natural ecosystems.
OUR APPROACH
The sustainable management of water throughout the
Group has been determined to be a key sustainability matter.
To this end, we have enshrined our commitments and
practices into overarching Environmental and Sustainable
Development policies, which are routinely evaluated by
ERM to ensure their ongoing effectiveness and adherence
to evolving regulations.
Our efforts are spearheaded within the two scopes of water
conservancy and effluent discharge, with our approach
being continually enhanced to ensure water resources are
adequately protected and liquid waste is properly managed
to avoid environmental pollution and impacts on the local
community.
Water Conservancy
To ensure responsible water withdrawal and
consumption across the Group, our utilisation
of water in manufacturing processes is carefully
monitored and benchmarked as a key criteria for
achieving operational excellence.
We have measures in place to optimise water
conservation in our operational processes and
enable greater recycling of water, such as through
the implementation of a closed loop water system
for process cooling.
We aim to inculcate responsible practices across
our workforce and consistently raise awareness for
water conservation through educational posters at
our operational sites that emphasise the importance
of reusing, recycling, and optimizing the water
utilised throughout our processes.
Sustainability Report
CONSCIOUS WATER MANAGEMENT:
WATER AND EFFLUENTS
SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF WATER & EFFLUENTS
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
112
OUR PERFORMANCE
As a food manufacturer, access to a reliable and sustainable
supply of water is crucial for our operations. The water
we utilise is withdrawn mainly from municipal water
networks, with the exception of SSIG, which withdraws
a proportion of its supply from well water. To maintain
the comprehensiveness of our data reporting in line with
environmental requirements, we have begun reporting our
water withdrawal performance from FY2022 onwards.
In FY2022, we recorded a Group-wide cumulative water
withdrawal of 1,227 ML, with our primary consumption
requirements being for processing and manufacturing
operations. Cognisant that our water needs will increase
as we expand our capacity, we are rising to this challenge
by implementing a comprehensive water management
strategy that takes into account the needs of our operations
and the impact of our water use on the local environment
and communities.
Enhancing our water efficiency measures has indeed been
earmarked as a key focus area for the Group, which will
seek to drive progress in reducing water usage during
production processes and increasing the recycling and
reusing of water where possible. We have also conducted
water risk assessments to identify potential water-related
risks and vulnerabilities so that we are able to proactively
develop strategies to manage and mitigate these risks.
Water Discharge Management
To minimise potential adverse impacts to the nearby
environment caused by our water discharge, we have
established specialized water treatment facilities
within all our major factories. These facilities are
able to effectively remove contaminants from the
wastewater so that all remaining effluents fall within
acceptable regulatory parameters and may be safely
disposed.
We monitor our treated wastewater daily through
using the recommended water quality tests and
routinely submit reports on the results to the relevant
local authorities, such as the DOE. A competent
Safety Officer or HSE representative is appointed
on each operational premises to ensure the
ongoing effectiveness of our wastewater treatment
processes.
Water Withdrawal (ML)
Year 2020 2021 2022
Malaysia 148 155 166
Indonesia 91 89 92
Germany N/A* 878 969
Total 239 1,122 1,227
Water Discharged (ML)
Year 2020 2021 2022
Malaysia 8 7 12
Indonesia 6 7 9
Germany N/A* 892 999
Total 14 906 1,020
In terms of total water discharge volume, we observed an
increase compared to FY2021. The uptick was attributed
to the increase in our production capacity as well as
the resumption of operations for one of our Malaysian
wastewater treatment plants, which was shut down for
maintenance in FY2021 but resumed its treatment and
discharge operations at a normal capacity during FY2022.
Guided by our Environmental Policy, the Group strives to
avoid unnecessary water consumption, ensure sustainable
water utilisation is practiced and that the environmental
impacts of our operations are monitored. In the spirit of
unlocking consistent improvements, we will continually
look to adopt new technologies or best practices,
while considering the impact of our water use on local
communities and the environment.
* Reporting scope expanded to include SSIG in 2021.
Notes:
1. The Singapore subsidiary has been excluded from this
comparison due to its establishment as a business office and not
a production facility.
2. Water discharge comprises of treated water discharged from
WWTP in Malaysia, Indonesia and Germany.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
113
WHY IT MATTERS
We believe that proper waste management is crucial
to creating sustainable cycles in society for a number of
reasons. Firstly, by utilising our raw materials to the fullest
extent and minimizing waste products, we can reduce
the amount of raw material used, and accordingly reduce
our environmental footprint. At the same time, by finding
innovative solutions for recycling waste that is produced,
we can reduce our waste disposal needs and play an
important role to lessen harmful impacts like methane
emissions from landfills and carbon dioxide emissions from
incineration.
Bearing this in mind, along with the discerning concerns
of our customers and stakeholders, GCB has established
various waste management practices that meet and extend
beyond legal requirements. Our efforts are focused on
optimising our resources efficiency, recycling our waste
wherever possible and greatly minimising the environmental
impact of waste that is unavoidably generated and unable
to be recycled. We have also adopted the use of waste-
to-energy technology to gain the most benefit from our
waste and preserve natural resources by reducing the need
to extract new materials unnecessarily.
OUR APPROACH
At the fundamental level, our approach to waste
management begins with ensuring full and ongoing
compliance towards all relevant statutory and regulatory
bodies governing the management and handling of waste
disposal. Our efforts are guided by our Environmental
Policy, and our policies are routinely evaluated by the ERM
committee to ensure our effective oversight of risks and
implementation of controls.
Further to this, we have elevated our practices to nurture
a Group-wide culture of responsible waste management,
and frequently engage with our employees to inculcate the
values that reflect our philosophy.
Stringent Waste Management Processes
As a key sustainability priority, all possible efforts are
undertaken to manage our waste responsibly and
reduce potential risks from improper management of
waste, especially hazardous waste. Scheduled waste
is stored separately in a secure location and is only
handled by licensed third parties whose practices
meet the requirements of local environmental
laws and regulations, as well as our own discerning
internal requirements.
A capable supervisor is assigned to oversee all waste
management processes and ensure maximum
compliance at each of our operating premises.
Proper inventories of the generation of scheduled
waste are maintained, and records of their handling
and disposal are closely monitored to ensure no
leakages occur.
Respective departments for hazardous and non-
hazardous waste bear the responsibility for
monitoring waste-related data and providing
monthly updated records that track the generation
and disposal of such waste. Open burning of waste
is strictly prohibited across all GCB entities. When
an issue with waste management is highlighted, the
Safety Officer will conduct a root cause investigation
and develop a corrective action plan to mitigate and
prevent future non-compliance.
Sustainability Report
RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION:
WASTE
A MINDFUL APPROACH TO WASTE MANAGEMENT
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
114
EXHAUST
BIOMASS
BOILER COCOA
CAKE
COCOA
SHELLS
COCOA
PRESS
COCOA
BUTTER
BREAKING
WINNOWING
ALKALIZING GRINDING
COCOA
SHELLS
COCOA
LIQUOR
COCOA
BEANS
One of our primary activities to recycle our waste while simultaneously reducing our carbon footprint is to use cocoa
shells as fuel for generating steam. These cocoa shells, which would previously have been disposed, are now recycled in
customized biomass boilers to generate steam at our Malaysian factories, which helps us to promote greater sustainability
and circularity, while reducing our purchase of fuel at these premises.
OUR PERFORMANCE
As part of our commitment to prioritise environmental stewardship, we have recently improved waste management across
our business operations to minimize the potential of adverse impacts on the environment. Our first step has been to assess
our current practices, and to this end, we conducted a thorough evaluation of our waste management practices in FY2022,
including our disposal methods and recycling programs.
We aspire to meet industry best practices in the tracking and reporting of our waste generation and management
performance, and have established key performance indicators that include the total amount of waste generated and our
waste disposal methods. By regularly monitoring and reporting on these indicators, we are better guided in our pursuit of
progress.
Promoting the 3Rs Philosophy
Wearecontinuallyendeavouringtoraiseawarenessforsustainableconsumptionandresponsiblewastemanagement
amongst our workforce across the Group. Our efforts aspire towards various outcomes, including reducing total
waste generated, improving overall consumption patterns, inspiring better production techniques and enhancing
our management of waste, with special emphasis placed on recycling. For added clarity, we have organised our
waste management priorities in order of importance – prevention, reduction, reusing, recycling, other forms of
recovery (such as energy recovery) followed by disposal.
Tonurtureresponsiblerecyclingpracticesamongstemployees,weraiseawarenessonthe3Rsandprovidedesignated
collection areas for recyclable items. We also encourage operational practices to fix and repair machinery and tools
as a first option to prevent unnecessary machinery waste, while making sure to attempt recycling or repurposing
before disposal at the landfill as a last resort.
Diverting waste from disposal into usable energy
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
115
Waste Management
In line with GCB's Environmental Policy to reduce the risk of
damaging the natural environment, we promote continual
improvements through the reduction of waste materials,
recycling, and conservation of resources.
FY2022 witnessed over 13,786 MT of waste diverted from
disposal. As a cocoa processing entity, cocoa shells are
the most prominent waste products generated by our
production facilities. In Malaysia, these cocoa shells are
utilised as feed for our biomass boiler, while for other
production facilities, they are sold to external parties to be
repurposed. Due to the shutdown of the biomass boiler at
one of our Malaysian production facilities for maintenance
during the year, a higher volume of cocoa shells were
diverted for repurposing offsite in FY2022.
The analysis of our practices we conducted was successful
in revealing areas for improvement. We are committed to
making these and other changes as part of our efforts to
reduce overall waste generation and have elevated ‘Waste
and Circular Economy’ as a key environmental focus area.
We are also progressively increasing our adoption of better
waste management measures, with more attention being
paid to the entire lifecycle of utilised materials as we look to
unlock greater circularity. Our criteria for selection includes
the consideration of longevity and robustness, capacity to
be repaired or disassembled, modular properties and ability
to be recycled, all of which holistically aid in improving our
resource efficiency.
Hazardous and Non-hazardous Waste
Generation
Overall, GCB has been experiencing an increase in waste
volumes over the past few years. This is due to various
factors, including a growing production volume, along with
increased use of raw materials.
We strive to conduct further analysis of our waste streams,
identifying the types and volumes of waste we generate
to effectively employ solutions. Ultimately, we aim to
continually enhance our waste treatment processes and
waste recycling initiatives, while keeping an eye open for
additional measures that can be undertaken to improve our
performance year by year.
Waste Management (MT) in 2022
Recycling
offsite
Cocoa Shells
converted to
fuel onsite
Diverted to
disposal
Hazardous
waste
disposed
offsite by
licensed
third-party
vendor
13,786
124
386
5,558
Waste by Disposal
Method (MT)
2020 2021 2022
Total Waste Generated 19,268 18,832 19,854
Non-hazardous waste
recycled offsite
17,167* 12,304* 13,786*
Cocoa Shells converted
to fuel onsite
3,181 5,808 5,558
Diverted to landfill 496 635 510
Note:
* Non-hazardous waste data includes scrap waste sold for recycling
offsite.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
116
SAFEGUARDING OUR PEOPLE:
EMPLOYMENT, CHILD LABOUR, FORCED
OR COMPULSORY LABOUR & FREEDOM OF
ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
FOSTERING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE TALENT FLOURISHES
WHY IT MATTERS
In our journey of growth and global expansion, our people
remain our most valuable asset. It is through their precious
expertise, dedication and resilience that we are able to
provide the high quality of products and services that we do.
Thus, the safeguarding of our people remains a fundamental
priority in our pursuit of long-term sustainability.
We pride ourselves on being a socially responsible
organisation with progressive employment practices
that promote diversity and inclusivity. Within our offices,
we foster meritocratic working environments in which
achievements and hard work is duly and fairly rewarded,
while opportunities for professional development are
provided for all employees. These holistic efforts have
helped us grow our reputation as a desirable employer and
continues to enable us to attract and retain the customers,
investors and talent required to achieve our business and
growth objectives.
OUR APPROACH
To ensure our commitment to being an exemplary
corporate employer is reflected by all entities within the
Group and across our global operations, we have put into
place a robust framework that sets forth our principles,
guides our practices and empowers our governance.
Equal Opportunities
At the core of our employment practices is the
fundamental principle of providing fair employment
and equal opportunities to our people. Our impartial
approach enables us to recruit a diverse pool of
talents from local communities and beyond, and
cultivates their drive to support and contribute
towards GCB’s innovation and growth.
To this end, we are against any and all forms
of discrimination against current or potential
employees, including on the basis of ethnicity,
religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, age
or disabilities. Our HRA Department is tasked with
overseeing employer-employee dealings across all
entities. The department ensures that the guidelines
and practices outlined in GCB’s Employee Handbook
and the Code are consistently being upheld, and that
all decisions relating to employees or job application
procedures are made objectively and without any
element of discrimination.
We also ensure opportunities for personal and
professional growth are provided without bias,
with all employees strongly encouraged to attend
training workshops. Professional third-party trainers
are engaged to present entertaining and informative
educational sessions on a variety of topics that add
value to our employees working experience and
promote continuous learning.
The following virtual workshops were conducted
during FY2022:
1. Improving Productivity & Time Management
2. Managing Crucial Conversations
3. Root Cause Analysis for Process Improvement
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
117
Upholding Employee Wellness
We aspire to reward and inspire our employees to the best of our abilities. To this end, we offer them attractive
compensation packages that include a variety of employment benefits while simultaneously providing them with a
stimulating workplace culture and opportunities for career advancement.
Our HRA Department plays an important role here in making sure employees remain aware and updated on the
benefits and opportunities availed to them as GCB employees, and often disseminates such information via annual
refresher training courses or other such suitable programs or events.
We keep our finger on the pulse of the labour markets where we operate, regularly monitoring the prevailing market
landscape and issues surrounding labour rights to ensure our policies adhere to local and regional regulations. As
we continue to benchmark and improve our performance, we will leverage on insights gained through monthly
performance reviews conducted on matters relating to our employees.
We have continued to undertake a variety of activities to improve the health and wellbeing of our employee, with
the following activities held during FY2022.
1. Nutrition Day
Sustainability Report
2. Festive Gifts Event
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
118
Protecting our People’s Rights
We continue to uncompromisingly uphold ethical and sustainable labour practices and strongly oppose the hiring
of minors, forced or unpaid labour, harassment or bullying at the workplace, and any form of gender or racial
discrimination. We also support the right of our employees to organise and engage in lawful and peaceful collective
bargaining.
To prevent potential abuse of power and empower employees to report information of a sensitive nature, we
have well-established channels for reporting grievances and whistleblowing that any employee may utilise when
necessary. All such matters are dealt with appropriately and with strict confidentiality by the Whistleblowing
Committee and may be escalated to the relevant senior management team or the Board if necessary. By establishing
this structure, we are able to ensure all issues raised are adequately prioritised and addressed with the best course
of action.
4. Lunch Box Contest
Terrarium Workshop
Group A team
22th June 2022, 5pm to 6pm, Kino's conference room.
CSR GREEN CARE ACTIVITY 2022
DIY kit set
-Plants.
-Soils & nutrients.
-Small stones.
-Decorations.
-Tools.
Zoom in
Zoom in
3. Terrarium Event
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
119
13
Diverse Workforce and Talent Pool Expansion
We are pleased to report a higher rate of new hires during the year, which demonstrates our progress in providing attractive
career opportunities and a conducive workplace environment that empowers our global workforce. While employees from
the under 30 group now make up more than half of our workforce, we believe that the fresh ideas and expertise from this
group has been a key contributing factor towards improving our sustainability performance. Driven by their contributions,
we are thrilled to have received recognition for our exemplary community care initiatives efforts during the year when we
were accorded the Company of the Year Award at the Sustainability and CSR Malaysia Awards 2022.
1,121
1,241
1,275
1,200
1,250
1,300
1,150
1,100
1,050
2020 2021* 2022*
Employee Head Count (Group)
Headcount of GCB Workforce Breakdown of Employees3 by Category Breakdown of Worker7 by Gender
* Reporting scope expanded to include Schokinag in 2021 and GCB Foods in 2022
Sustainability Report
OUR PERFORMANCE
As a leader within the cocoa industry, we aim to set an exemplary approach in our hiring practices and employee welfare
provisions through robust practices that meet or surpass international human rights frameworks and enable us to run our
operations sustainably.
Permanent
Employees1
Temporary
Employees2
1,043
232
Male Female
74
Part-time
employees4
7
Full-time
employees5
1,268
Non-
guaranteed
hours6
employees
- -
238
244
1,024
805
219
Male Female Male Female
Total Employees: 1,275
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
120
Notes:
1. Permanent employee refers to an employee with a contract for an indeterminate period (i.e., indefinite contract) for full-time or part-time
work.
2. Temporary employee refers to an employee with a contract for a limited period (i.e., fixed term contract) that ends when the specific time
period expires, or when the specific task or event that has an attached time estimate is completed (e.g., the end of a project or return of
replaced employees).
3. Employee refers to an individual who is in an employment relationship with GCB according to national law or practice.
4. Part-time employee refers to an employee whose working hours per week, month, or year are less than the number of working hours for
full-time employees.
5. Full-time employee refers to an employee whose working hours per week, month, or year are defined according to national law or practice
regarding working time.
6. Non-guaranteed hour employee refers to an employee who is not guaranteed a minimum or fixed number of working hours per day, week,
or month, but who may need to make themselves available for work as required.
7. Worker refers to personnel who are not GCB employees and whose work is controlled by GCB.
Sustainability Report
Rates New Employee Hires Employee Turnover
Year 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
Age
Under 30 82% 74% 76% 64% 60% 70%
30-50 16% 25% 22% 34% 37% 27%
Over 50 2% 1% 2% 2% 3% 3%
Gender
Male 92% 88% 89% 92% 92% 88%
Female 8% 12% 11% 8% 8% 12%
Total Group-wide 31% 27% 33% 29% 24% 27%
Total Number and Rate of New Hires and Employee Turnover
New Hires by Age Group Employee Turnover by Age Group
New Hires by Gender Employee Turnover by Gender
376
46
289
40
315
28
2020 2021 2022
301
42
278
24
296
25
2020 2021 2022
280
244
321
92
9
81
4
57
2020 2021 2022
6
Under 30 30-50 Over 50
204
182
242
92
9
111
9
109
2020 2021 2022
8
Under 30 30-50 Over 50
Male Female Male Female
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
121
Parental Leave Utilisation 2020 2021 2022
Total number of employees entitled to
parental leave
Male 588
739
718
923
516
652
Female 151 205 136
Total number of employees who took
parental leave
Male 61
72
60
76
59
69
Female 11 16 10
Total number of employees that returned
to work in the reporting period after
parental leave ended
Male 61
72
60
75
59
69
Female 11 15 10
Total number of employees that returned
to work after parental leave ended and
were still employed 12 months after their
return to work
Male 61
72
59
74
26
34
Female 11 15 8
Rates 2020 2021 2022
Return to work rate of employees that
took parental leave
Male 100%
100%
100%
97%
100%
100%
Female 100% 94% 100%
Fair and Legal Labour Practices
GCB has continued to operate in line with the Code and
Human Rights & Labour Policy and Procedure, which
specifically prohibits the engagement nor benefit from the
use of child labour or coerced labour, and we are proud to
report zero instances of participation in forced labour and
child labour manipulation across our entities in FY2022.
In addition to maintaining internal ethical labour practices,
we have also worked towards preventing child labour across
our supply chain. At the farm level, we have established a
CLMRS as part of our GC&B Program to detect, remediate
and prevent identified cases of child labour. We want to
develop higher levels of transparency across our supply
chain and undertake an annual evaluation of our suppliers
via a Supplier Sustainability Performance assessment,
which keeps us updated on their environmental and
social practices and enables us to drive engagement and
collaboration towards greater sustainability.
Employee Empowerment
Here at GCB, our employees are granted the right to
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining and are
empowered in their professional growth and development.
We regularly provide training programs and educational
series to build their competencies, develop their knowledge
and enhance specific skills related to their job functions.
Listed below are the various topics for which our employees
received training throughout FY2022:
• Safety and Health
• Halal Executive
• Waste and Contamination Management
• Food Handling
• Tax and Audit
• Mechanical Instruments
Family and Personal Welfare Prioritisation
As part of our commitment to support work-life balance and family-friendly policies, parental leave entitlements are
contractually provided to eligible employees as part of their suite of benefits, in accordance with local legislation.
We continue to monitor and observe the access to parental leave across all our production facilities, the number of
employees who have utilised parental leaves and the percentage that return thereafter, with our three-year performance
outlined in the accompanying chart.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
122
PROVIDING A CONDUCIVE WORKPLACE:
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
DRIVING CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH AND
SAFETY OUTCOMES
WHY IT MATTERS
Maintaining high standards of occupational health and
safety remains a crucial driver for ensuring the sustainability
of our business operations. We therefore leave no stone
unturned when it comes to creating a safe working
environment for our employees and providing them
with protective gear, well-maintained equipment and
comprehensive training, as their wellbeing and safety on
our operating facilities is of paramount importance to us.
We believe this empowers our employees to undertake
their tasks effectively and contribute meaningfully towards
their respective department's objectives and targets.
As a food industry business with a global footprint, we also
believe it is important to nurture a reputation of being a
progressive employer that places occupational health and
safety concerns as a key priority. This provides the valuable
benefit of easing the process when setting up operations in
new jurisdictions. As we continue to expand, we remain able
to comply with all local labour and operational regulations
and possess robust processes and management oversight
to ensure adherence to safety standards.
OUR APPROACH
We have adopted an integrated Group-wide approach that
is guided by our Health and Safety, which sets forth the
best standards for daily operations, ensures adherence to
local regulations and spearheads our efforts to continually
improve our workplace safety practices.
Stringent Workplace Safety Management
Guided by our Group-wide policy, we have
developed standard operating procedures across
our offices and production facilities. Responsibility
falls to the Health and Safety Committee to
implement these mandatory standards, along
with safety officers that work as an extension of
the committee on the ground within each of our
subsidiaries.
To encourage diverse and transparent discussions
around health and safety, all local safety
committees consist of employee and management
representatives that make joint decisions on
workplace safety. The committee meets on a regular
basis to openly discuss safety issues, highlight
accidents and near-miss incidents and assess any
requirements for more stringent controls.
Our established best practices are continually
being supported and refined through safety and
competency trainings to upskill workers on the
job. Employees that may be exposed to high-risk
environments or situations when carrying out their
duties are provided additional job-specific safety
training during their onboarding and are provided
with all necessary protective equipment such as
safety helmets, safety shoes and ear plugs.
Matters of non-compliance are taken very seriously
and all GCB employees are encouraged to lead
improvements in safety by speaking directly to the
safety committee. They may also raise concerns
to the management through our whistleblower
channel when they see unsafe behaviour, such as
dangerous situations or disregard for safety rules
or regulations. As a fundamental priority, our health
and safety measures, practices and performance are
regularly monitored by the ERM committee.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
123
Supporting Employee Safety Competencies
We also place priority on providing our employees
on the ground with the necessary resources and
knowledge to respond properly to health and safety
issues. While training for such safety competencies
is mandatorily provided to all applicable employees
during the GCB induction process, we provide
additional regular training for our safety officers
to ensure they remain abreast of the latest
developments in regulatory best practices and are
able to assist in minimising operational hazards.
We have also established emergency response
teams that include certified first aiders and trained
fire fighters at our manufacturing subsidiaries.
To prepare for potential emergency evacuations,
emergency response teams are required to conduct
various emergency drills each year. This allows us
to test our alarm systems and enable employees to
familiarise themselves with evacuation procedures
and the location of firefighting equipment such as
fire extinguishers and fire hydrants. All our premises
have obtained the necessary Fire Certificates issued
by their relevant local government, which indicates
that the firefighting measures in place meet the
necessary standards and are adequately maintained.
We further provide all emergency response team
members with regular refresher training courses to
ensure their competencies remain up-to-date with
the requirements of the industry and our operations.
To further safeguard employees and inculcate
a strong health and safety culture across our
entire workforce, we provide all employees with
medical insurance and organise annual refreshers
so employees remain cognisant of their available
benefits and coverage guidelines.
Continuous Improvement
In our aspirations to achieve optimal health
and safety outcomes across the Group, we are
consistently reviewing our performance and seeking
improvement opportunities. Monthly management
meetings provide the platform for the presentation
of monthly safety reports and for any matters related
to occupational health and safety to be raised by
relevant parties. We complement our regular reviews
with internal and external safety audits throughout
the year, which enables us to identify ways of
improving processes at all levels of the Group.
We also routinely conduct Hazard and Operability
Analyses to assess potential hazards amidst our
operations, with the safety committee applying a
hierarchy of controls to minimize and eliminate any
potential hazards identified. Should any work-related
incidents occur, they are promptly investigated
by the safety officer to determine the root cause
and set up corrective control measures, with the
effectiveness of these measures subsequently
monitored during monthly safety committee
meetings. Through this conscientious framework,
we remain well-equipped to avoid complacency in
this area of critical importance.
We also expect high standards of our suppliers and
leverage on our Business Ethics Policy and Code
of Conduct to communicate our expectations of
workplace health and safety to all direct vendors.
This helps to drive improvements for workers
in our supply chain to be duly provided a safe
and healthy working environment that is in full
compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
industry standards. To this end, we have opened
our grievance mechanism to external parties so
they are able to discreetly and anonymously report
instances of unsafe conditions and work accidents
to GCB’s whistleblower committee or to the safety
committee of our subsidiaries.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
124
OUR PERFORMANCE
GCB has progressively and continually enhanced our
measures to curb occupational hazards and incidents
in order to optimise our operational efficiencies. The
progress we have achieved in this regard during 2022 is a
prime reflection of the persistent improvements we have
undertaken for our employees' welfare.
Year 2022
Hours worked (Number) 2,958,644
Work-related injuries (Number) 21
Rate of recordable work-related injuries
(per one million hours worked)
7
Work-related high consequence injuries
(Number)
0
Fatalities as a result of work-related
injury (Number)
0
Fatalities as a result of work-related ill
health (Number)
0
TrainingonHealthandSafetyStandards
To ensure the health and safety of our people during
operations, GCB has provided training on health and
safety standards to all employees across our production
facilities, while also equipping each production facility with
a management committee and system to ensure abidance
to full standards and avoidance of unwanted incidents.
Additionally, our employees and workers are also exposed
to periodical training to ensure they remain fully aware of
the latest updates to health and safety requirements, while
concurrently using these sessions to promote practices that
may further reduce the potential of accidents occurring.
Listed below are the types of OHS training programs that
our employees received throughout FY2022:
• Forklift Training
• First Aid Training
• Fire Drill Training
• Fire Fighting Training
• Annual Refresher Training
Promotion of worker health
As a global business entity, adherence to regional health and
safety regulations are a top priority, but we also undertake
additional initiatives to further safeguard our people. All
of our business entities provide employees access to a
diverse array of non-occupational medical and healthcare
services, which ranges from dental and general practitioner
coverage to financial support for hospitalisation via our
Group insurance.
At the same time, we ensure that we meet all compulsory
regional requirements, such as mandatory social security
contributions. Due to our presence in various locations
across the globe, employees in different regions may be
provided with different types of coverage that nevertheless
achieve similar objectives.
Injuries and Fatalities
We have made it a top priority for all of our entities and
subsidiaries to abide by local regulations as well as our in-
house guidelines governing occupational health and safety.
Our emphasis on attaining progress over the past two years
has seen us successfully record a Group-wide reduction
in work-related injuries during FY2022. Pleasingly, we also
observed zero work-related fatalities, or high-consequence
injuries across all our reporting subsidiaries; a record we
have now proudly maintained for three consecutive years.
For the common minor injuries that occurred, the
incidents were appropriately assessed by the supervising
safety office and appropriate preventive measures were
implemented. We will persevere in bolstering our health
and safety framework through continuous assessment and
monitoring, provision of trainings and implementation of
safety working procedures, as we believe all these aspects
have contributed to our improved performance and have
also served to optimize our operations and production
capacity.
Work-related injuries (Number)
30 30
21
25
30
35
20
15
0
5
10
2020 2021 2022
Work-related injuries
Fatalities as a result of work-related injury
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
125
ENSURING PRODUCT QUALITY:
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
OUR COMMITMENT TO HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS
WHY IT MATTERS
As a global food industry player, our efforts to maintain
high food safety standards contributes greatly to the
long-term sustainability of our business. Our domestic
and international customers, as well as the worldwide
consumers that our products eventually reach, rely on us
to responsibly produce their beloved cocoa ingredients,
and we undertake this responsibly with the utmost care.
This ensures we maintain the trust and safeguard the health
of our customers, while avoiding unnecessary negative
impacts to our operations or reputation.
At the fundamental level, we first ensure full compliance
to all food safety standards and regulatory requirements as
a food processor. Further to this, we consistently cultivate
habits of food safety practices amongst our employees to
ensure it remains a top priority and have implemented strict
GMP controls to maintain the superior quality of our cocoa
ingredients at all times.
OUR APPROACH
As part of our commitment to create high-quality and
consumer safe products, we have adopted a comprehensive
and robust approach that ingrains the importance of food
safety across our workforce and empowers them with the
tools, knowledge and resources to reliably and consistently
meet our quality targets.
Robust Food Quality Control Measures
To communicate our rigorous commitments to
employees and embed safety awareness into the
GCB culture, we have established a Food Safety
and Quality Policy to guide practices across the
Group. This policy helps to ensure that our factories
in Malaysia, Indonesia and Germany remain in full
adherence to all applicable international industry
standards and local regulations, while enabling us to
maintain our top global certifications.
International Certifications
• Fairtrade International Standards
• FSSC 22000
• GMP
• Halal Certification
• HACCP
• IFS
• ISO 22000: Food Safety Management System
• Kosher Certification
• MeSTI Certification
• Rainforest Alliance
We have embedded the principles and procedures
recommended by recognised food safety standards
into our SOPs and monitor our performance
by conducting quality assessments at various
production control points, as well as on the finished
products. QA and QC teams bear the responsibility
for overseeing manufacturing procedures, risk
analysis and traceability along our value chain.
Sustainability Report
Read more:
Snapshot of FY2022: Financial and
Non-Financial Performance Highlights,
page 17
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
126
Product Sourcing
With suppliers playing a direct role in the success and
sustainability of our operations, we are dedicated
towards building strong and respectful relationships
with all entities in our supply chain network. This
empowers us to work collaboratively to advance
nutrition and food safety while simultaneously
addressing our evolving customer and consumer
demands. Our Supplier Quality Expectation Manual
sets forth our expectations of suppliers in regards
to manufacturing practices, quality assessment,
packaging and procedures for crisis management.
All new suppliers will be audited to ensure their
compliance to quality management systems and
manufacturing controls, with their ingredients only
being introduced into our production once they
have been approved by the QA and QC teams. We
also provide ingredients suppliers with a Supplier
Self-Assessment Checklist to set the benchmark for
quality and encourage improvements in food safety
programs and manufacturing controls.
Further to this, GCB conducts site audits as part of
our comprehensive process to evaluate and monitor
process controls and documentations. Suppliers are
required to meet minimum requirements for food
safety management and implement any corrective
actions in a timely manner.
OUR PERFORMANCE
As a business entity, GCB is adamant to meet the discerning and varying needs of our customers. We strive to minimise
their dissatisfaction and improve the quality of our products. Therefore, we are proud to report that 100% of our products
and services are assessed for improvement in terms of health and safety impacts. Across our subsidiaries globally, all
products are manufactured according to internationally recognized food certifications and standards. This is monitored by
our QA department, which is tasked with ensuring these standards are consistently met.
Performance wise, GCB aspires to advance in tandem with our customers evolving requirements. Upon receiving feedback
from our customers, improvement measures are applied accordingly in our production and manufacturing processes. This
unlocks consistent progress in our operations, allowing us to provide the best possible quality of products and ensuring
the satisfaction of our clients.
Additionally, as a global entity, all our reporting subsidiaries abide by the local food safety regulations of their respective
regions. This is further supported by our implementation of SOPs to smoothen our production processes, which has
enhanced our efforts to ensure our products do not violate these regulations.
We place high emphasis on the health and safety of our customers, which we consider to be a critical aspect of our
operations. This approach ensures that we consistently deliver cocoa products that meet and exceed the highest industry
standards for safety and quality, while also fulfilling the unique needs and preferences of our discerning customers.
Sustainability Report
Via the analysis of product quality results from our
inspections on incoming raw materials and outgoing
products, we are able to continually improve our
quality management systems. To this end, we
regularly conduct internal food safety audits to
maintain our high standards, and also utilise third party
assessments for further assurance, with all relevant
documentation being maintained in our database for
process traceability and regulatory compliance.
All employees and workers are also provided with
relevant food safety information and training before
gaining access to our operational sites. Through
these proactive and stringent safety measures, we
remain always equipped to control food safety
hazards, minimise risks and give our customers
robust confidence in the quality of our products.
Additionally, we have maintained a documented
product recall and withdrawal program, including
written guidance for retrieval procedures.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
127
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Statement of use Guan Chong Berhad has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period
of 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 2:
General
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organisational details 9-16 & 74-75
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting 74-75
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 74-75
2-4 Restatements of information 74-75
2-5 External assurance 74-75
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 9-16
2-7 Employees 116-121
2-8 Workers who are not employees 116-121
2-9 Governance structure and composition 78-84
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 130-135
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 34-41
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the
management of impacts
80-82
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 80-82
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 80-82
2-15 Conflicts of interest 83-84
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 85-88
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 34-41
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 137-138
2-19 Remuneration policies 137-138
Remuneration
Policy is publicly
available.
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 137-138
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 76-77
2-23 Policy commitments 78-84
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 78-84
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 83
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 83
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 83
2-28 Membership associations 75
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 85-86
GRI 3:
Material Topics
2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics 87-88
3-2 List of material topics 88
3-3 Management of material topics 88-126
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
128
Sustainability Report
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302:
Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 106-110
302-3 Energy intensity 106-110
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 106-110
GRI 303:
Water and
Effluents 2018
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 111-112
303-3 Water withdrawal 111-112
303-4 Water discharge 111-112
GRI 305:
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 106-110
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 106-110
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 106-110
GRI 306:
Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 113-115
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 113-115
306-3 Waste generated 113-115
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 113-115
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 113-115
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
ECONOMIC
GRI 201:
Economic
Performance
2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 93-95
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change
93-95
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 193-195
GRI 202:
Market Presence
2016
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local
minimum wage
96-98
GRI 204:
Procurement
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 99-103
GRI 205:
Anti-corruption
2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 104-105
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and
procedures
104-105
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 104-105
GRI 206:
Anti-competitive
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and
monopoly practices
104-105
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
129
Sustainability Report
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
SOCIAL
GRI 401:
Employment
2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 116-121
401-3 Parental leave 116-121
GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and
Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 122-124
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 122-124
403-3 Occupational health services 122-124
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
occupational health and safety
122-124
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 122-124
403-6 Promotion of worker health 122-124
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety
impacts directly linked by business relationships
122-134
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
management system
122-124
403-9 Work-related injuries 122-124
GRI 406:
Non-
discrimination
2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 104-105
GRI 407:
Freedom of
Association
and Collective
Bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of
association and collective bargaining may be at risk
116-121
GRI 408:
Child Labour
2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child
labour
116-121
GRI 409:
Forced or
Compulsory
Labour 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or
compulsory labour
116-121
GRI 416:
Customer Health
and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service
categories
125-126
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety
impacts of products and services
125-126
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
130
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) recognises the importance of good corporate governance in
ensuring that the interest of the Company, shareholders and other stakeholders are protected. The Board is committed
to the establishment and implementation of a proper framework for governance and controls that are consistent with
the principles recommended in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) and other applicable laws,
regulations, directives and guidelines.
This corporate governance overview statement (“Statement”) sets out the adoption and practices of the principles as set
out in the MCCG and the relevant chapters of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on corporate governance.
The manner in and the extent in which the corporate governance framework is applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2022 is summarised as follows:
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
Principal Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
The Board directs the risk assessment, strategic planning, resource allocation, succession planning and financial
and operational management of the Company and each of its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”
or “GCB Group”) to ensure that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met. The
Board provides the leadership necessary to enable the Group’s business objectives to be met within the framework
of internal controls described in this Statement.
The Board, together with the management, takes responsibility for the governance of sustainability in the Group in
accordance with Practices 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 of the MCCG. The Board takes into account sustainability considerations
when developing and implementing company strategies, business plans, major plans of action and risk management.
The Board ensures that it constantly stays abreast with sustainability issues relevant to the company and its business
and that sustainability initiatives undertaken by the Group are effectively communicated to stakeholders.
As set out in the MCCG’s Practice 1.2, the Board is led by a Chairman, who is responsible for:
- Representing the Board to shareholders and ensuring effective communication with shareholders;
- Ensuring effective operation of the Board and its committees in conformity with the highest standards of
corporate governance;
- Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision-
making;
- Ensuring that all Board committees are properly established, composed and operated;
- Ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new directors and updates for all directors as and when
necessary; and
- Supporting the Chief Executive Officer and establishing a harmonious and open relationship with the Chief
Executive Officer.
The Board is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, who provides sound
governance advice, ensures adherence to rules and procedures and advocates the adoption of corporate governance
best practices, in compliance with the MCCG’s Practice 1.5.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
131
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Principal Responsibilities of the Board of Directors (Cont’d)
To assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has established four (4) Board Committees, namely the
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Risk Management Committee,
to which it has delegated certain responsibilities. The Board Committees have their roles and functions, written terms
of reference, operating procedures and authority to examine specific issues within their respective terms of reference
as approved by the Board and report to the Board with their recommendations. All deliberations and decisions taken
by the Board Committees are documented and approved by the respective Chairman of the Board Committees prior
to submission as agenda items for deliberation at the meeting of the Board. The ultimate responsibility for decision
making, however, still lies with the Board. The Board reviews the Board Committees’ authority and terms of reference
from time to time to ensure their relevance.
The Board is guided by the Board Charter, which clearly identifies the respective roles and responsibilities of the
board, board committees, individual directors and management, and issues and decisions reserved for the Board
in compliance to the MCCG’s Practice 2.1. The Board establishes Code of Ethics & Conduct and Whistleblower
Procedure that aim to promote good business conduct and maintain a healthy corporate culture which engenders
integrity, transparency and fairness in compliance with Practices 3.1 and 3.2 of the MCCG. Details of the Board
Charter, Code of Ethics & Conduct and Whistleblower Procedure can be found on the Company’s website at
www.gcbcocoa.com.
Clear roles and responsibilities
The Board has a collective responsibility for the management of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors are
responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board and providing objective
challenges to Management.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not engage
in any business dealing or other relationship with the Group to ensure that they are capable of exercising judgment
objectively and act in the best interest of the Group, its stakeholders and shareholders, including minority
shareholders. The day-to-day business operations of the Group are led by the Chief Executive Officer. The positions
of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals in accordance with the MCCG’s
Practice 1.3. To enhance accountability, the Board has specific functions reserved for the Board and those delegated
to the Management. There is a schedule of key matters reserved to the Board for its deliberation and decision to
ensure the direction and control of the Group are in its hands.
Key matters reserved to the Board for decision comprise the following:
- acquisition and disposal or closure of a business;
- declaration of dividends and approval of financial statements, including accounting policies of the Group;
- establishment of new businesses;
- annual strategic plan;
- capital investment and disposal of tangible assets from existing business to third party;
- increase or reduction by a subsidiary of its share capital;
- financing on the Group’s activities;
- any corporate restructuring not covered by the above-mentioned paragraphs;
- the change of name of any company in the Group and establishment of any new company;
- separate and consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and public statements
which reflect significant issues of the Group’s policy or strategy;
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
132
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Clear roles and responsibilities (Cont’d)
Key matters reserved to the Board for decision comprise the following: (Cont’d)
- strategy, business plans and annual budgets of the Company and its subsidiaries and of any subsequent material
changes in strategic direction or material deviations in business plans by the Company and its subsidiaries;
- significant changes in accounting policies and practices of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- material acquisitions and disposal of assets not in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its
subsidiaries;
- change relating to the capital structure, including but not limited to, reduction of capital, share and other
securities issues (except under employee share option schemes) and share buy-backs (including the use of
treasury shares) (including the terms and conditions of such changes in capital structure) of the Company and
its subsidiaries;
- raise or increase borrowing facilities involving material amounts of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries, following
recommendations from the Nomination Committee;
- any delegation of authorities to Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors of the Company and its
subsidiaries;
- risk management policies of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- appointment and removal of the Company Secretary of the Company and its subsidiaries;
- establishment of Board Committees of the Company and its subsidiaries (to the extent applicable), their
membership, delegated duties and authorities and the terms of reference; and
- remunerations payable in relation to the contract of employment of the Director of the Company and its
subsidiaries and member of Key Senior Management of the Group.
Board Meetings and Supply of Information
A total of five (5) Board Meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2022. Board meetings are held
separately from Board Committee Meetings. The details of attendance of each Board Member are as follows:
Name of Directors Attendance
Tay Hoe Lian 5/5
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 5/5
Hia Cheng 5/5
Ang Nyee Nyee 5/5
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir 5/5
Ng Kim Hian (Appointed on 27 February 2023) 0/0
Tan Pui Suang (Appointed on 27 February 2023) 0/0
Tan Ah Lai (Resigned w.e.f. 5 April 2023) 5/5
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
133
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
Board Meetings and Supply of Information (Cont’d)
The Company Secretaries, under the direction of the Chairman, ensures a balanced flow of information is disseminated
so that the Board and the Board Committees receive timely and up-to-date information for an effective discharge
of the Board’s responsibilities and for decisions to be made on an informed basis. The Board firmly believes that
effective deliberation and its decision making process are highly dependent on the quality of information furnished
by the management.
Where any direction or decisions are required expeditiously or urgently for the Board between the regular meetings,
special meetings of the Board are convened by the Company Secretaries, after consultation with the Chairman. The
agenda for the meeting of the Board is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretaries and the
Chief Executive Officer.
Decisions of the Board are made unanimously or by consensus. Where appropriate, decisions may be taken by way
of Directors’ Circular Resolutions between scheduled and special meetings.
The meetings of the Board follow the proceedings set out in Practice 1.6 of the MCCG. A formal and structured
agenda, together with a set of Board and Board Committees papers, are forwarded to all Directors at least seven (7)
days prior to the Board and Board Committees meetings, to enable the Board to make decisions and for Directors
to be prepared to deal with matters arising from such meetings. The Board has a regular schedule of matters which
are typically on the agenda and reviewed during the course of the year, namely, presentation on quarterly reports;
the quarterly unaudited consolidated results; recommendations of the various Board Committees; announcements
to Bursa Securities; the Company’s audited financial statements; the Company’s annual report which includes
Sustainability Statement, this Statement, Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control, Audit Committee
Report, Risk Management Report and Statement of Directors’ responsibilities. Presentations to the Board and the
Board Committees are prepared and delivered in a manner that ensures a clear and adequate understanding of the
subject matter. In addition, reading materials on the subject matter are prepared and circulated prior to each meeting
to assist Directors in to understand the subject matter. Members of the management team and external advisors are
invited, as and when required, to attend Board and Board Committees meetings to provide additional insights and
professional views, advice and explanations on specific items on the meeting agenda. All pertinent issues discussed
at Board meetings in arriving at the decisions and conclusions are properly recorded by the Company Secretaries by
way of minutes of meetings and circulated to Board of Directors accordingly.
It is the policy of the Company for Directors to devote sufficient time and efforts to carry out their responsibilities.
The Board obtains this commitment from Directors at the time of their appointment. Furthermore, in ensuring time
commitment of Directors, meeting dates are made known to the Directors prior to the beginning of a new financial
year. Directors are also required to notify the Board before accepting any new directorship.
II. Board Composition
The Composition of the Board
The Board, through the Nomination Committee, ensures that the composition of the Board is refreshed periodically.
The tenure of each Director is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and annual re-election of a Director is
contingent on satisfactory evaluation of the Director’s performance and contribution to the Board, in accordance
with Practice 5.1 as set out in the MCCG.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
134
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
The Composition of the Board (Cont’d)
The Board consists of seven (7) members, comprising three (3) Executive Directors including the Managing Director/
Chief Executive Officer and four (4) Independent Non-Executive Directors. Presently, three (3) out of seven (7)
members of the Board are women Directors, making the total female representation on the Board of 43%. The
Board members provide an effective Board with a mix of industry-specific knowledge and broad business, financial,
regulatory and technical experience. Furthermore, there is effective check and balance on the Board, with 57% of the
Board members being Independent Non-Executive Directors. Based on the independence assessment conducted
by the Board, the Board believes that the existing Independent Directors can continue bringing in their independent
objective and judgement during the Board and Board Committee’s proceedings. As a large company, the Group
currently complies with Practice 5.2 in the MCCG with majority of the Board comprises Independent Directors.
A brief description of the background of each Director is presented in the Directors’ Profile on pages 34 to 38 of this
Annual Report.
Independence of the Board
The Independent Directors provide the necessary independent perspective and rigour in the formulation of strategies,
deliberation of issues and implementation of major undertakings to ensure that the interest of not only the Group,
but also stakeholders and the public in general are represented. The Board, through the Nomination Committee
reviewed and was satisfied that all such Directors had satisfied the criteria for an Independent Director as prescribed
in the Listing Requirements and Practice Note 13. This mixture of experience and expertise is deemed necessary in
light of the increasing challenging economic and operating environment in which the Group operates.
The MCCG’s Practice 5.3 provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on the tenure of an Independent
Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve the Board upon reaching the nine (9) years limit
subject to the Independent Director’s re-designation as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. In the event
the Board intends to retain the Director as Independent Director after the latter has served a cumulative term of nine
(9) years, the Board must justify the decision and seek shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process. In
justifying the decision, the Nomination Committee is entrusted to assess the candidate’s suitability to continue as an
Independent Non-Executive Director based on the criteria and definition of an Independent Director as set out under
Paragraph 1.01 of Listing Requirements on independence and recommend to the Board for its consideration. The
Group currently does not have any Independent Directors serving the Board for more than nine (9) years.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the identification
of the desired mix of expertise, competencies and experiences for an effective Board and the assessment of the
performance of the members of the Board. As and when the need arises, the Nomination Committee shall also
identify and recommend candidates with the necessary qualities to strengthen the Board.
The Nomination Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Ang Nyee Nyee, and
comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Nomination Committee operates under its
terms of reference, which has been approved by the Board.
Practices 5.6 and 5.7 of the MCCG require the Committee to consider independent sources and recommendations
from existing board members, management and major shareholders when identifying candidates for appointment of
directors. The Committee also has the responsibility to ensure that shareholders have the information they require
to make an informed decision on the appointment and reappointment of the Directors. The Committee has not
utilised external independent sources to identify the new Independent Directors because it was satisfied that they
were the suitable candidates after assessment of their background, professional qualification, knowledge, integrity
and competencies, independence, as well as fulfilment of criteria set out in the Fit and Proper Policy.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
135
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
Nomination Committee (Cont’d)
On appointment of new Directors, the Management would facilitate the Directors’ induction by providing the Directors
with relevant information about the Group and encouraging them to visit the sites of the Group’s operating units and
meet with key senior executives. The Nomination Committee will also ensure that orientation programme is provided
for new members of the Board and is also tasked to review the Directors’ continuing education programmes.
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, all Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to election
by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The Constitution also provides that at least one
third (1/3) of the remaining Directors be subject to re-election by rotation at each Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once every three (3) years but shall be eligible for
re-election.
The Nomination Committee has access to any form of independent professional advice, information and the advice
and services of the Company Secretaries, if and when required, in carrying out its functions. Directors seeking re-
election and re-appointment abstain from all deliberations regarding his/her re-election and re-appointment to
the Board and/or Board Committees. The Nomination Committee meets at least once in a financial year or more
frequent if needed.
The Nomination Committee had two (2) meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2022, which was
attended by all members. The activities carried out by the Nomination Committee during the financial year under
review were as follows:
• Assessed and reviewed the boardroom diversity in respect of the desired mix of skills, competencies and
experience of the Board, including the core competencies which non-executive directors should bring to the
Board as well as the gender diversity policy as encouraged by Bursa Securities and Practices 5.9 of the MCCG;
• Ensured that the appointment of the Board and senior management is based on objective criteria, merit and
with due regard for diversity in skills, experience, age, cultural background and gender in accordance with
Practice 5.5 of the MCCG;
• Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the Board, the Board Committees and individual directors, and
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments to the structure, size and composition
that are deemed necessary in accordance with Practice 6.1 of the MCCG;
• Developed the Board action plan for improvement on areas identified in the Boards effectiveness evaluation,
where application;
• Reviewed the Fit and Proper Policy;
• Reviewed the Succession Planning Policy and Procedure; and
• Reviewed the Directors’ continuing education programmes.
Directors’ Training
Under the Listing Requirements, the Nomination Committee has assumed the onus of determining or overseeing the
training needs of the Directors. All the Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2022, all Directors have attended relevant courses and training
programmes to enhance their knowledge to effectively discharge their duties and obligations.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
136
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
The courses and training programmes attended by the Directors are as follows:
Name of Director Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Ang Nyee Nyee Family Law Arbitration Webinar
The FSCB Assessment of Organisational Culture
Sustainability Management
Tay Hoe Lian Succession Planning Without A Successor: The New Trend in Succession
Planning
The Secret of Body Language
‘Leading in Times of Crisis’ with Indra Nooyi
Economic Outlook – Global, Regional & ASEAN Economic Update
Working Together Principles and Practices with Sam Reese, CEO of Vistage
Worldwide
Cybersecurity Landscape and New Approaches to Protect Your Business
Sustainability Management
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick Sustainability Management
Hia Cheng 2022 European Cocoa Forum: How can we best balance food safety,
sustainability, and socioeconomic considerations?
2022 European Cocoa Forum: Supply & Demand Functionality – What is
the right package of policy actions?
2022 European Cocoa Forum: Innovation Trends in the Cocoa Sector
2022 European Cocoa Forum: Deforestation-free Regulation as a driving
force for government-mandated traceability
2022 European Cocoa Forum: Traceability as a key enabler of a supply
chain that delivers for everyone
CAA International Cocoa Conference 2022: Macroeconomic Outlook for
Asia and the World
CAA International Cocoa Conference 2022: Cocoa Fundamentals Outlook
for Asia: Supply and Demand
CAA International Cocoa Conference 2022: Marketing and Innovation
Trends for Asian Cocoa and Chocolate
CAA International Cocoa Conference 2022: Sustainability and Social
Responsibility in Asian Cocoa
CAA International Cocoa Conference 2022: Women in Cocoa and
Chocolate Asia
Sustainability Management
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
137
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)
Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
The courses and training programmes attended by the Directors are as follows: (Cont’d)
Name of Director Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir Sustainability Management
SC’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with Audit Committees
Tan Ah Lai
(Resigned w.e.f 05 April 2023)
Workshop on e-Commerce and Digital Taxation in Malaysia
National Tax Conference 2022
Sustainability Management
Ng Kim Hian
(Appointed on 27 February 2023)
Not applicable
Tan Pui Suang
(Appointed on 27 February 2023)
Not applicable
The Directors are mindful that they shall continue to undergo the relevant training programmes to stay abreast with
the latest developments in the industry and to better enable them to fulfill their responsibilities.
The Company Secretaries and external auditors have also regularly updated the Directors on the latest relevant
regulatory requirements and accounting standards to enable them to keep abreast with such developments and
amendments.
III. Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the development and
review of the remuneration policy and packages for the Board members.
The Remuneration Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Nurulhuda Binti Abd
Kadir, and comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee operates
under its terms of reference, which has been approved by the Board.
In compliance with Practices 7.1 and 7.2 of the MCCG, the Remuneration Committee has in place policies and
procedures to determine the remuneration of directors and senior management, which takes into account the
demands, complexities and performance of the company as well as skills and experience required. The remuneration
policy is reviewed from time to time to ensure the remuneration of Directors and senior management are on par with
other publicly listed companies.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
138
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)
Remuneration Committee (Cont’d)
The Remuneration Committee had one (1) meeting during the financial year ended 31 December 2022, which was
attended by all members. The activities carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the financial year under
review were as follows:
- Reviewed and recommended to the Board the remuneration packages for Executive Directors based on the
outcome of performance review;
- Reviewed recommended to the Board remuneration packages for key senior management based on the
outcome of performance review;
- Determined the remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality
required to manage the business of the Group successfully;
- Ensured the remuneration and incentives for independent directors does not conflict with their obligation in
bringing objectivity and independent judgment on matters discussed;
- Reviewed the Group’s compensation policy for the Executive Directors and ensure alignment of compensation
to corporate performance, and compensation offered in line with market practice; and
- Approved the annual salary increment of the Executive Directors in respect of each financial year.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
139
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)
Directors’ Remuneration
The details of Directors’ remuneration payable to the Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 are as follows:
Group (RM’000) Company (RM’000)
Fees
Salaries &
Allowances Bonuses
EPF &
SOCSO
Benefits-
in-kind Fees
Salaries &
Allowances Bonuses
EPF &
SOCSO
Benefits-
in-kind
Executive Directors
Tay Hoe Lian 180 1,881 1,943 98 16 - - - - -
Tay How Sik @
Tay How Sick
180 1,028 707 21 17 - - - - -
Hia Cheng 180 1,952 1,980 77 62 - - - - -
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Tan Ah Lai (Resigned w.e.f.
5 April 2023) - - - - - 56 3 - - -
Ang Nyee Nyee - - - - - 60 - - - -
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir - - - - - 45 - - - -
Ng Kim Hian (Appointed on
27 February 2023)
- - - - - - - - - -
Tan Pui Suang (Appointed on
27 February 2023)
- - - - - - - - - -
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
140
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)
Key Senior Management’s Remuneration
The details of Key Senior Management’s remuneration in successive band of RM50,000 for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 are as follows:
Band Number of Key Senior Management
RM300,001 – RM350,000 1
RM700,001 – RM750,000 1
RM750,001 – RM800,000 1
RM1,150,001 – RM1,200,000 1
RM1,400,001 – RM1,450,000 1
RM1,800,001 – RM1,850,000 1
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit Committee
Uphold Integrity in Financial Reporting by Company
The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and re-appointment of external auditors. Together with the
external auditor, the Audit Committee reviews the audit plan, evaluation of the system of internal controls and audit
report and subsequently reports to the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the Group’s internal audit function is effective and independent and
carries out its work in accordance with a recognised framework. The internal auditors report directly to the Audit
Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls and significant risks. The Audit
Committee reviews and evaluates the key concerns and issues and ensures that appropriate and prompt remedial
action is taken by the management.
Audit Committee activities are detailed in the Audit Committee Report and Statement of Risk Management and
Internal Control.
The Board aims to provide and present a clear, balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Group’s financial
performance and prospects at the end of the financial year, primarily through the annual financial statements and
quarterly announcement of results to shareholders, as well as the interview with the Managing Director/Chief
Executive Officer and review of the Group’s operations in this Annual Report.
The Board, with the assistance of Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring that the financial statements give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company as at the end of the reporting period and of
their results and cash flows for the period then ended. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensure
that accounting standards approved by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board in Malaysia and the provisions of
the Companies Act 2016 are complied with and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made.
The Directors’ overall responsibilities also include taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard
the assets of the Group and for the implementation and continued operation of adequate accounting and internal
control systems for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
Group’s position and prospects in the Directors’ Report and the Financial Statements set out in this Annual Report.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
141
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
Recognise and Manage Risk of the Group
The Board recognises its responsibility over the principal risks of various aspects in the Group’s business.
The Board and Management are mindful of measures required to identify risks residing in any major proposed
transactions, changes in nature of activities and/or operating environment, or venturing into new operating
environment.
The responsibilities of identifying and managing risks are delegated to the respective Head of each business units.
A Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board by taking the responsibility of monitoring the
effectiveness of the Group’s approach on risk management which function was previously delegated to the Audit
Committee. The composition and details of activities carried out by the Risk Management Committee are set out in
the Risk Management Committee Report of this Annual Report.
The key features of the risk management and internal controls are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control as stated on pages 143 to 148 of this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
Ensure Timely and High Quality Disclosure
An essential aspect of an active and constructive communication policy is the promptness in disseminating
information to shareholders and investors. The Board is aware of the need to establish corporate disclosure policies
and procedures to enable comprehensive, accurate and timely disclosures pertaining to the Group to the regulators,
shareholders and stakeholders of the Company.
The Company acknowledges the need for investors to be informed of all material business and corporate
developments affecting the Group.
The timely release of quarterly results of the Group and the issue of the Company’s Annual Reports provide regular
information on the state of affairs of the Group. These, together with the announcements to Bursa Securities, circulars
to shareholders and, where appropriate, ad-hoc press statements and interviews are the principal channels for
dissemination of information by the Company to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally. This information
is also accessible by the public through the Bursa Securities’ website at www.bursamalaysia.com.
In addition, the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com provides information on the Group’s business, corporate
development and announcements to Bursa Securities. Other information relevant to shareholders and investors
such as Annual Reports, circulars to shareholders and quarterly reports are available for download at the Company’s
website.
Promoting Sustainability
The Company manages its business responsibly by managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of
its operations. The Company produces the annual report, which highlights the financial aspects of the business and
provides a clear, comprehensive and transparent representation of the Company’s performance annually.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
142
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
II. Conduct of General Meetings
Annual Report and General Meetings
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining transparency and accountability to its shareholders. The
Board ensures that all the Company’s shareholders are treated equitably and the rights of all investors, including
minority shareholders, are protected. The Board provides its shareholders and investors with information on
its business, financials and other key activities in this Annual Report and the contents of which are continuously
enhanced to take into account the developments, amongst others, in corporate governance.
The conduct of the meeting follows Practices 13.1, 13.2, 13.3, 13.4, 13.5 and 13.6 of the MCCG. Notice for the general
meetings is given to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting. The Board is cognisant of the advantages of
poll voting at general meetings to ensure accurate, transparency and efficiency of the voting process and outcomes
at general meetings. All the resolutions tabled at the general meetings are voted by poll. All Directors attended the
18th Annual General Meeting held on 30 May 2022. Technology was leveraged during the meeting in order to be
accessible to all shareholders and to support a meaningful engagement between the board, senior management
and shareholders. Minutes of the general meetings are also circulated to shareholders within 30 business days of the
meeting.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board is pleased to report that this Statement together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which is
available on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com provides the corporate governance practices of the Company
with reference to the MCCG. The Board considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the
broad principles as set out in the MCCG. However, the Board has reserved several of the Practices and has rationalized
and provided justifications for the deviations in the CG Report. Nevertheless, the Company will continue to strengthen its
governance practices to safeguard the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
This Statement was presented and approved at the meeting of the Board on 5 April 2023.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
143
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
INTRODUCTION
Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements requires the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of any given
Listed Issuer to include in its annual report a Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. The Board is pleased
to provide the following statement that is prepared in accordance with the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Guidelines”) endorsed by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”) which outlines the nature and scope of the risk management and internal controls of the Group during the
financial year under review until the date of approval.
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of internal controls and risk management practices within the
Group to meet its business objectives. The Board affirms its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal
controls and effective risk management, and for reviewing the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of these systems
to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. It covers not only financial controls but operational and
compliance controls, and risk management.
However, such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement, losses or fraud. These systems were designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives of the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
In dealing with its stewardship responsibilities, the Board recognises that an effective risk management is part of good
business management practice. The Board acknowledges that all areas of the Group’s activities involve some degree of risk
and is committed to ensuring that the Group has an effective risk management framework which will allow the Group to
be able to identify, evaluate, monitor and manage risks continuously that affect the achievement of the Group’s business
objectives.
This process is annually reviewed by the Board. It is intended that any key risk or significant control failings or weaknesses
shall be identified and discussed in these reports including the impact they have had or may have on the Group and the
actions to rectify them.
The key elements of the Group’s Risk Management Framework are described below:
• Structure
The Group adopts a decentralised approach to risk management which comprises strategic and operational risks
(including financial and compliance risks).
Type of Risks Accountability
Strategic risk The Board, Group Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Group Chief Financial
Officer(“CFO”) and Group Chief Operating Officer (“COO”)
Operational risk (including financial
and compliance risks)
Senior Management and Head of Department
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
144
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
• Structure (Cont’d)
Strategic risks are risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group, but have a significant impact
on its strategic decisions or activities. Accountability for managing strategic risks therefore rests with the Board,
Group CEO and Group CFO. The benefit of effectively managing strategic risks is that the Group can better
forecast and quickly adapt to the changing demands that are placed upon the Group. It also means that the
Group is less likely to be affected by some external event that calls for significant change.
Operational risks, including financial and compliance risks are inherent in the ongoing activities within the
different subsidiaries of the Group. Typically, some of the risks cover foreign exchange, credit, competency,
technology, etc. Senior management needs ongoing assurance that these operational risks are identified
and managed. Accountability for managing operational risks rests specifically with the respective Heads of
Department.
• Risk Awareness Culture
Risk awareness culture is reflected by the emphasis on strong corporate governance, organisational structure
with clearly defined roles and responsibilities, effective communication and training, commitment to compliance
with laws, regulations and internal controls, integrity in fiduciary responsibilities and clear policies, procedures and
guidelines.
• Risk Assessment
Senior Management identifies and assesses risks from time-to-time based on business nature and objective. Senior
Management reports quarterly to the Board for any significant risk identified or control failure.
• Risk Appetite
The Group’s risk appetite defines the amount and types of risk that the Group is able and willing to accept in pursuit
of its business objectives. It also reflects the level of risk tolerance and limits set to govern, manage and control the
Group’s risk taking activities.
A clear Limit of Authority has been formalised to approve transactions to ensure that they are within the risk appetite
of the Group.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key elements of the Group’s internal control system are described below:
• Control Environment
The importance of a proper control environment is emphasised throughout the organisation. Focus is directed
towards the quality and abilities of the Group’s employees with continuing education and training to enhance the skills
of employees and reinforce qualities of professionalism and integrity. Such training also includes internal briefings
and external seminars for selected employees to enhance the level of awareness and knowledge on matters relating
to risk management and internal controls.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
145
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct is the cornerstone of setting the proper tone at the top for the business’s culture. The Board and
management have formalised it as the standard of expected ethical behaviour for the all employees. It spells out
about workplace safety and health, bribery, equal opportunities, workplace environment, etc.
• Organisational Structure
The Group operates on a hierarchical organisation structure that defines the authority limits, lines of responsibility
and reporting mechanism. All Subsidiaries have clear accountabilities to ensure appropriate control procedures are
in place.
The key elements of the Group’s organisational structure are as follows:
Management
o Policy and Procedures: Management has implemented series of documented Policy and Procedures to
govern the Group’s key business processes. These policies and procedures deal with, amongst others,
control issues for procurement, credit control, warehousing, information technology, health and safety,
etc. These procedures are reviewed annually by senior management to ensure its relevancy.
o Human Capital: There are guidelines within the Group for hiring and termination of staff, formal training
programmes for staff and annual performance appraisals to enhance the level of staff competency in
carrying out their duties and responsibilities.
o Safeguarding of Assets: Adequate insurance and physical safeguarding of major assets are in place to
ensure that they are sufficiently covered against any mishap that may result in material losses to the
Group.
o Related Party Transactions: Internal control procedures are established to ensure that related party
transactions are undertaken in compliance with the Group’s practices, the Listing Requirements, and to
ensure that these transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms,
which are in the best interest of the Group’s stakeholders.
o Communication: Information is communicated through circulars, emails, meetings and internal memos.
o Site Visit: Annual visits by the head office personnel to business units in remote location to ascertain
compliance with the established Policy and Procedures of the Group by local management.
o Management Meetings: Quarterly meetings with the Heads of Departments provide a sound platform
for the information communicate with, and provide feedback to and from, Management.
Internal Audit
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional service provider (the
“Internal Auditors”) which carries out its functions independently with risk-based approach and provides
the Audit Committee and the Board with the assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of
internal controls. The cost of internal audit function for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 was about
RM48,000.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
146
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)
Internal Audit (Cont’d)
Any significant control lapses and/or deficiencies noted from the reviews will be documented and communicated
to management for review and corrective actions. The Internal Auditors report to the Audit Committee all
significant non-compliance, internal control weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve the
audit issues identified.
The Internal Auditors are solely responsible for planning, implementing and reporting the audits for the Group.
The Internal Auditors:
o Prepare a detailed Internal Audit Plan in consultation with the senior management for submission to the
Audit Committee for approval;
o Carry out all activities to conduct the audits in an effective, professional and timely manner;
o Discuss with the audit committee upon completion of each audit for any significant control lapses and/or
deficiencies noted from the reviews for their review and corrective actions; and
o Submit quarterly report to the Audit Committee for all significant non-compliance, internal control
weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve the audit issues identified.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee reviews, monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s
internal controls and financial issues raised by the External and Internal Auditors, regulatory authorities and
management. The review includes reviewing written reports from the Internal and External Auditors, to ensure
that where deficiencies in internal controls have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is
taken by management.
The Audit Committee also convenes meeting with External Auditors without the presence of management. In
addition, the Audit Committee reviews the adequacy of the scope, functions and competency of the Internal
and External Auditors. The Audit Committee also reviews and evaluates the procedures established to ensure
compliance with applicable legislation, the Listing Requirements and the Group practices.
The Audit Committee Report set out on pages 149 to 150 of this Annual Report contains further details on the
activities undertaken by the Audit Committee in 2022.
Risk Management Committee
The Risk Management Committee reviews and recommends the Group’s risk management framework and
evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures and risk action
plans. The review includes reviewing quarterly reports from Enterprise Risk Management Committee, to ensure
that where risks have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is taken by management.
The Risk Management Committee Report set out on pages 151 to 152 of this Annual Report contains further
details on the activities undertaken by the Risk Management Committee in 2022.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
147
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)
• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)
Board
The Board holds regular discussions with the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and management
and considers their reports on matters relating to internal controls and deliberates on their recommendations
for implementation.
o Business Direction: The Group’s vision, mission, corporate philosophy and strategic direction have been
formalised and communicated to employees at all levels. The Board retains control over the Group with
appropriate management reporting mechanisms which enable the Board to review the Group’s progress.
o Reporting and Information: Senior management reports to the Board for the strategic plans and business
units’ performances on a quarterly basis. The monitoring of individual business units’ performances is
conducted monthly, with major variances followed up and management action taken, where necessary.
Comprehensive information is provided to management every quarter, covering financial performance,
key business indicators, key business risks and legal, environmental and regulatory matters. Quarterly
meetings attended by management, led by the Group CEO, are held to discuss the various aspects of the
business, including financial and operational performance of the Group. Key matters affecting the Group
are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Management also ensures that it has the knowledge of key market information in respect of the Group’s
products/performance and takes pro-active measures, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Group.
o Monitoring and Review: There are processes for monitoring the system of internal controls and
reporting any significant weaknesses together with details of corrective action. The system is reviewed
on an ongoing basis by the Board (through the Audit Committee), management and Internal Auditors.
Heads of Department are also actively involved in continually improving the control processes within their
respective departments.
WEAKNESSES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS WHICH RESULTED IN MATERIAL LOSSES
There were no major weaknesses in internal controls which resulted in material losses during the financial year under
review until the date of approval of this Statement.
ASSURANCE PROVIDED BY THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
In line with the Guidelines, the Group CEO and Group CFO have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems have been operated adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, to meet
the Group’s business objectives during the financial year under review.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
148
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by paragraph 15.23 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, the External Auditors have
reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the
year ended 31 December 2022. Their review was performed in accordance with the Audit and Assurance Practice Guide
3(“AAPG 3”) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. The External Auditors’ procedures have been conducted to
assess whether the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is supported by the documentation prepared
by or for the Directors and that it is an appropriate reflection of the process adopted by the Directors in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal control for the Group.
AAPG3 does not require the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control system of the Group. Based on the procedures performed, nothing had come to their attention that
caused them to believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out above was not prepared,
in all material respects, in accordance with the disclosure required by paragraph 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, nor was factually inaccurate.
CONCLUSION
The Board has taken the necessary steps to ensure that appropriate systems are in place for the assets of the Group to be
adequately safeguarded through the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and material misstatements.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Group’s annual report save for
those mentioned above. The Board continues to take pertinent measures to sustain and, where required, to improve the
Group’s risk management and internal control systems in meeting the Group’s strategic objectives.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 5 April 2023.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
149
Audit Committee Report
MEMBERSHIP
Chairman: Ng Kim Hian
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 5 April 2023)
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
Members: Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Tan Pui Suang
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)
Tan Ah Lai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com.
SUMMARY OF WORK
A total of five (5) Audit Committee meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2022. The details of
attendance of each Audit Committee member are as follows:
Name of members Attendance
Ng Kim Hian
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 5 April 2023)
0/0
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir 5/5
Tan Pui Suang
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)
0/0
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
5/5
Tan Ah Lai
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
5/5
During the financial year under review, the Audit Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance with its
existing Terms of Reference.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
150
Audit Committee Report
SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)
The main work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the financial year included the following:
- considered the nomination of external auditors for recommendation to the Board for re-appointment;
- considered the audit fees payable to the external auditors for recommendation to the Board for approval;
- reviewed the performance of the external auditors in relation to the audit and performed follow-up measures on
areas of performance of external auditors that require improvement, where required;
- reviewed and evaluated factors relating to the independence of the external auditors. The Audit Committee worked
closely with the external auditors in establishing procedures in assessing the suitability and independence of the
external auditors, in confirming that they are, and have been, independent throughout the conduct of the audit
engagement with the Group in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Accountants;
- reviewed the external auditors’ scope of work and audit plans and strategy for the year prior to the audit;
- reviewed the results of the audit, the audit report and the management letter, including management’s response, and
the assistance given by the employees to the external auditors;
- reviewed the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 and matters relating to
management judgments and estimates;
- reviewed quarterly unaudited financial statements of the Company prior to submission to the Board for their
consideration and approval;
- reviewedwhetherthefinancialstatementsprovideatrueandfairviewoftheCompany’sfinancialpositionandperformance;
- met with external auditors without the presence of management on 21 February 2022 and 21 November 2022 and
discussed on matters arising from the interim and final results;
- reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors and/or its network firms to eliminate or reduce
the threat to objectivity and independence;
- reviewed the internal auditors’ programmes and plans for the financial year under review and the assessment of the
effectiveness of internal audit activities;
- reviewed the re-appointment of the internal auditors and audit fee;
- reviewed the internal audit plans, reports, recommendations and management’s response;
- reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situations, including reviewing recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature and control procedures for those transactions in the shareholders’ mandate;
- reviewed the anti-bribery and corruption policy and recommended the amendment and/or modification, if any to the Board;
- reviewed processes and controls that were in place for effective and efficient financial reporting and disclosures
under the financial reporting standards;
- ensuredthattheGroupisincompliancewiththeregulationsofCompaniesAct2016,theapplicableapprovedaccounting
standards as per Malaysian Accounting Standards Board, Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, Malaysia Code on Corporate Governance and other legislative and reporting requirements; and
- reviewed the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report
and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and recommended their adoption to the Board,
deliberated the disclosure requirements for sustainability statement and noted the management action plan.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls which provide reasonable
assessment of effective operations, internal financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations as well as with
internal procedures and guidelines.
The Company has engaged an external independent consultant to carry out the internal audit function to assist the Audit
Committee in maintaining a sound system of internal control. The internal audits were undertaken to provide independent
assessments on the accuracy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems.
An overview of the Group’s approach in maintaining a sound system of internal control is set out in the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control on pages 143 to 148 of this Annual Report.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
151
Risk Management Committee Report
For an effective risk management framework, the Risk Management Committee was set up to oversee the risk management
of the Group pursuant to step up practice 10.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance.
MEMBERSHIP
Chairman: Hia Cheng
(Executive Director)
Members: Ang Nyee Nyee
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ng Kim Hian
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)
Tan Ah Lai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at
www.gcbcocoa.com.
SUMMARY OF WORK
A total of five (5) Risk Management Committee meeting was held for the financial year ended 31 December 2022. The
details of attendance of each Risk Management Committee member are as follows:
Name of members Attendance
Hia Cheng 5/5
Ang Nyee Nyee 5/5
Ng Kim Hian
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)
0/0
Tan Ah Lai
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
5/5
The Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s approach
on risk management. The Group has a formal risk management policy and framework approved by the Board and the Risk
Management Committee is supported by the Enterprise Risk Management Committee comprises of heads of department,
headed by the Chief Financial Officer in overseeing the risk management efforts within the Group.
For risk management, the Group has in place an on-going process for identifying principal business risks within the
organisation, assessing the likelihood of occurrence and impact of exposures and determining the corresponding risk
mitigation and treatment measures.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
152
Risk Management Committee Report
SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)
Risk management activities are practised throughout the organisation to support the Risk Management Committee in its
corporate governance responsibilities. Enterprise Risk Management Committee and the respective departmental heads
would proactively and effectively manage significant risks that might affect the Group’s objectives. A set of risk indicators
has been developed and is used to enhance the monitoring and mitigation of risks events.
During the financial year under review, the Risk Management Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance
with its existing Terms of Reference.
The main work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee during the financial year included the following:
- Provided guidance for the direction of the Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) committee;
- Reviewed and recommended the Group’s risk management framework for the Board’s approval;
- Monitored the implementation of the risk management framework and activities conducted by the Group ERM
committee;
- Reviewed and advised on the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance;
- Reviewed the adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures to ensure all material risks are identified;
- Reviewed material risks and evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of risk action plans, vis-à-vis the risk appetite
and risk profile of the Group;
- Reviewed the Group’s risk profile on an annual basis and ensured that all material risks outside of the Group’s tolerable
ranges are being addressed in risk action plans in a timely manner;
- Reported to the Board regarding the Group’s risk exposures;
- Reviewed the adequacy of infrastructure and resources for the Group’s risk management; and
- Reviewed the Risk Management Committee Report to ensure that all relevant information as prescribed in the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad is disclosed.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2022
153
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements for each financial year. They are responsible for
ensuring that these financial statements are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysia Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company and the results and cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently,
and made estimates and judgements which are reasonable and prudent. The financial statements have been prepared on a
going-concern basis. It is the duty of the Directors to review the appropriateness of the basis before adopting the financial
statements and present them before the Annual General Meeting together with their Report and the Auditors’ Report
thereon.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting and other records are kept to sufficiently explain the
transactions recorded. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to exercise judgement to make
certain estimates that are reasonable, prudent and relevant to be incorporated in the financial statements. The Directors
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
154
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
155 Directors’ Report
162 Statement by Directors
162 Statutory Declaration
163 Independent Auditors’ Report
167 Statements of Financial Position
169 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
170 Statements of Changes in Equity
173 Statements of Cash Flows
176 Notes to the Financial Statements
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
155
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in business of investment holding and provision of management services to
subsidiaries. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are mainly involved in the manufacturing, marketing and promotion
of cocoa related products. Further details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the financial year 147,410,462 75,838,032
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 147,410,462 75,838,032
DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:
RM
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:
Final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 June 2022 21,150,710
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
First interim single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on 12 July 2022 15,896,860
Second interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 11 October 2022 22,443,865
59,491,435
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend in respect of the current financial year ended 31 December
2022.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
156
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares of the Company were increased from 1,054,806,783
to 1,174,914,924 by way of issuance of 120,108,141 new ordinary shares pursuant to 120,108,141 warrants exercised at an
exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company. There
were no other issues of shares during the financial year.
The Company did not issue any debentures during the financial year.
TREASURY SHARES
As at 31 December 2022, the Company held 400,000 (2021: 400,000) of its ordinary shares as treasury shares out of
its total 1,174,914,924 (2021: 1,054,806,783) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares. Such treasury shares are held at a
carrying amount of RM720,042 (2021: RM720,042).
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
WARRANTS 2019/2022
On 12 November 2019, the Company issued 168,022,058 free warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant for every three (3)
existing ordinary share.
The warrants were constituted under the Deed Poll dated 14 October 2019. During the financial year, 120,108,141 warrants
were exercised and converted to ordinary shares. On 4 November 2022, remaining unexercised warrants were expired and
ceased to be valid.
The salient terms of the Warrants were as follows:
(i) Each warrant entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe for one new ordinary
shares in the Company at an exercise price of RM1.65.
(ii) The warrants shall be exercisable at any time within the period commencing from and inclusive the date of issue of
the warrants and ending on the date immediately preceding the third (3rd) anniversary of the date of issue, or if such
day is not a Market day, then it shall be the Market Day immediately preceding the said non-Market Day.
(iii) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the warrants shall, upon issue and allotment, be of
the same class and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares, save and except that such new
ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or other distributions, at the entitlement
date of which is prior to the date of the allotment of these new ordinary shares.
(iv) Any warrants not exercised during the exercise period will lapse and cease to be valid.
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
157
DIRECTORS
The Directors who have held for office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Guan Chong Berhad
Tay Hoe Lian*
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick*
Hia Cheng*
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Ang Nyee Nyee
Ng Kim Hian (Appointed on 27 February 2023)
Tan Pui Suang (Appointed on 27 February 2023)
Tan Ah Lai (Resigned on 5 April 2023)
*These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiaries of Guan Chong Berhad
Tay How Yeh
Tay See Min (f)
Yau Tee Wan
Judith Laudenklos (f) (Appointed on 1 February 2023)
Werner Rudolf Ludwig (Resigned on 1 February 2023)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance as at
1.1.2022 Addition Sold
Balance as at
31.12.2022
Shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 28,791,582 4,320,243 - 33,111,825
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 11,079,096 2,579,849 - 13,658,945
Hia Cheng 18,296,358 5,016,059 - 23,312,417
Indirect interests:
Tay Hoe Liana 620,000 100,000 - 720,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sickb 2,570,000 20,000 - 2,590,000
Hia Chengc 31,163,598 7,176,444 - 38,340,042
Ang Nyee Nyeed 8,000 - - 8,000
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
158
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONTINUED)
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows: (continued)
Number of ordinary shares
Balance as at
1.1.2022 Addition Sold
Balance as at
31.12.2022
Shares in the ultimate holding company
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. (“GCR”)
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 5,130,000 - - 5,130,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 3,762,180 - - 3,762,180
Hia Cheng 1,350,000 - - 1,350,000
Number of warrants
Balance as at
1.1.2022 Addition Exercised Sold
Balance as at
31.12.2022
Warrants in the Company
Direct interests:
Tay Hoe Lian 1,288,595 - (1,288,595) - -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 1,079,849 1,500,000 (2,579,849) - -
Hia Cheng 2,116,059 2,900,000 (5,016,059) - -
Indirect interests:
Tay Hoe Liana 100,000 - (100,000) - -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sickb 20,000 - (20,000) - -
Hia Chengc 3,533,932 1,613,216 (4,747,148) (400,000) -
a Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the Company.
b Deemed interest by virtue of his daughters, Tay Jing Ye’s, and Tay Sing Ye’s, and his son, Tay Lian Shi’s shareholding in
the Company.
c Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughters, Hia Sin Yee’s and Hia Sin Che’s shareholding
in the Company.
d Deemed interest by virtue of her husband, Leong Chee Foong’s shareholding in the Company.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares and
options over ordinary shares in the Company or ordinary shares, options over ordinary shares and debentures of its related
corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
159
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors of the Company have received or become entitled to
receive any benefit by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director, or with a firm
of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than
the following:
(a) remuneration received by certain Directors as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
(b) by virtue of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business.
There were no arrangements made during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which
had the object of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 were as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Salaries and allowances 7,683,918 -
Fees 700,500 160,500
Other emoluments 6,224,873 4,000
14,609,291 164,500
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors and officers liability insurance amounted to RM19,660 during the financial
year to protect the Directors of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims
brought against the Directors.
No indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable
steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making
of provision for doubtful debts and have satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written
off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the
ordinary course of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
160
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY (CONTINUED)
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR (CONTINUED)
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual
nature.
 
(II) FROM THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect
substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which
this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the
period of twelve (12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of
the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III) AS AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in the report or financial statements
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
161
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
During the financial year, Russia and Ukraine conflict resulting in the imposition of various economic sanctions on Russia
by several countries across the world. These developments resulted in soaring global commodities and energy prices.
Known facts and financial impact of non-adjusting events since the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(a) Credit risk on trade receivables
Total trade receivables as at reporting date that exposed from conflict zones amounting to RM23,838,926. Substantial
portion of these amounts have been collected and the remaining uncollected balance is insignificant to the Group.
(b) Increasing energy cost in Germany
The energy prices in Germany, in particular electricity and gas prices, are on the rise even before the above-mentioned
conflict. The conflict has further driven up the energy costs in the country.
The prolonged Russia-Ukraine conflict is still evolving and remains unpredictable. Despite that the Group's financial
exposure is not significant, the Group is closely monitoring and managing the operations to minimise any impact arising
from the conflict.
ULTIMATE HOLDING COMPANY
The Directors regard Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated in Malaysia, as the ultimate holding
company.
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 were as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Statutory audit 984,799 113,000
Other services 7,086 5,000
991,885 118,000
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
Tay Hoe Lian Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director Director
Johor Bahru
5 April 2023
Directors’ Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
162
Statement by Directors
Statutory Declaration
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 167 to 261 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31
December 2022 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
Tay Hoe Lian Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director Director
Johor Bahru
5 April 2023
I, Hia Cheng, being the Director primarily responsible for the financial management of Guan Chong Berhad, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 167 to 261 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Johor Bahru, Johor this )
5 April 2023 )
		 Hia Cheng
Before me:
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
163
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Guan Chong Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
REPORT ON AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Guan Chong Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out
on pages 167 to 261.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year
then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matters of the Group
1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value
As at 31 December 2022, the inventories of the Group of RM1,589,224,653 that mainly comprised cocoa beans and
related cocoa products. Details of the inventories have been disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because of the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of
finished goods to net realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility, which
may result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable values.
Audit response
Our audit procedures included the following:
(i) Obtained an understanding of the process implemented by management over the determination of lower of
cost and net realisable value used in the valuation of inventories;
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
164
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Guan Chong Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matters of the Group (continued)
1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value (continued)
Audit response (continued)
(ii) Analysed the inventories turnover period by comparing that to the assessment of management on the
identification of slow moving and obsolete inventories; and
(iii) Assessed the appropriateness of inventories written down by verifying selling prices subsequent to the end of
the reporting period.
2) Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 31 December 2022, the net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM419,506,524 and
cumulative allowance for impairment on trade receivables was RM14,229,612 as disclosed in Note 14 to the financial
statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in
determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
Audit response
Our procedures included the following:
(i) Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward looking information adjustment applied
by the Group;
(ii) Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward looking
information and expected credit losses;
(iii) Assessed the level of cash received subsequent to the end of the reporting period for its effect in reducing the
amounts outstanding as at the end of the reporting period; and
(iv) Recomputed the correlation coefficient between forward looking factors and historical credit losses to
determine the appropriateness of the forward looking information of the Group.
Key Audit Matters of the Company
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
165
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis
of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and the Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Guan Chong Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
166
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: (continued)
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
BDO PLT Sia Yeak Hong
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206 03413/02/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Johor Bahru
5 April 2023
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Guan Chong Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
167
Statements of Financial Position
As At 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 1,196,068,129 957,460,382 - -
Investment properties 9 19,572,689 20,318,799 - -
Intangible assets 10 86,418,056 88,360,555 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 11 - - 265,198,030 127,232,530
Investments in associate 12 4,489,477 4,551,667 5,000,000 5,000,000
Deferred tax assets 21 1,616,903 1,737,084 - -
Other receivables 14 - - 532,790,111 459,318,721
1,308,165,254 1,072,428,487 802,988,141 591,551,251
Current assets
Inventories 13 1,589,224,653 1,875,457,509 - -
Trade and other receivables 14 624,744,436 431,642,871 6,164,970 22,014,551
Derivative financial assets 15 55,390,479 33,463,683 - -
Current tax assets 13,738,682 8,670,990 1,453,772 -
Cash and bank balances 16 69,110,829 73,808,713 6,576,777 6,509,926
2,352,209,079 2,423,043,766 14,195,519 28,524,477
TOTAL ASSETS 3,660,374,333 3,495,472,253 817,183,660 620,075,728
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the
parent
Share capital 17 495,237,253 297,058,820 495,237,253 297,058,820
Treasury shares 18 (720,042) (720,042) (720,042) (720,042)
Reserves 19 1,144,038,109 1,046,008,051 17,114,590 767,993
TOTAL EQUITY 1,638,555,320 1,342,346,829 511,631,801 297,106,771
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
168
Statements of Financial Position
As At 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 364,396,970 391,826,113 300,000,000 300,000,000
Lease liabilities 8 60,436,809 46,105,563 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 21 74,995,859 75,094,836 - -
Retirement benefits obligations 22 2,720,110 3,215,651 - -
502,549,748 516,242,163 300,000,000 300,000,000
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 611,624,732 683,185,977 1,452,603 12,010,547
Derivative financial liabilities 15 91,912,676 27,277,508 4,099,256 10,605,177
Borrowings 20 796,357,406 900,463,455 - -
Lease liabilities 8 9,552,357 12,929,847 - -
Current tax liabilities 9,822,094 13,026,474 - 353,233
1,519,269,265 1,636,883,261 5,551,859 22,968,957
TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,021,819,013 2,153,125,424 305,551,859 322,968,957
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,660,374,333 3,495,472,253 817,183,660 620,075,728
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
169
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Revenue 25 4,419,838,924 3,923,297,392 61,869,755 39,892,236
Cost of sales (4,042,203,886) (3,575,187,299) - -
Gross profit 377,635,038 348,110,093 61,869,755 39,892,236
Other income 97,562,550 65,987,129 27,734,116 14,072,329
Net impairment (losses)/reversal on trade
and other receivables 14(h) (550,228) (1,911,264) - 35,072
Selling and distribution costs (64,137,048) (61,287,949) - -
Administrative expenses (100,001,381) (98,176,320) (2,621,117) (2,378,595)
Other expenses (66,260,545) (23,555,393) - (13,228,980)
Finance costs 26 (56,043,780) (32,817,049) (11,520,000) (11,520,000)
Share of (loss)/profit of associate, net of
tax (123,165) 410,611 - -
Profit before tax 26 188,081,441 196,759,858 75,462,754 26,872,062
Tax expense 27 (40,670,979) (41,921,403) 375,278 (2,299,955)
Profit for the financial year 147,410,462 154,838,455 75,838,032 24,572,107
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
- hedge of net investments in foreign
operations 27(d) 2,612,141 (9,266,971) - -
- foreign currency translation 27(d) 7,525,523 5,312,869 - -
- share of other comprehensive loss/
(profit) of associate 27(d) 60,975 (78,891) - -
Items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
- remeasurement of employee
benefits liability, net of tax 27(d) (87,608) 120,650 - -
Total other comprehensive income/
(loss), net of tax 10,111,031 (3,912,343) - -
Total comprehensive income 157,521,493 150,926,112 75,838,032 24,572,107
Profit attributable to owners of the
parent 147,410,462 154,838,455 75,838,032 24,572,107
Total comprehensive income attributable
to owners of the parent 157,521,493 150,926,112 75,838,032 24,572,107
Earnings per ordinary share attributable
to owners of the parent (sen):
- Basic 28 13.52 14.86
- Diluted 28 - 14.17
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
170
Statements of Changes in Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Non-Distributable Distributable
Group Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
RM
Hedging
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
equity
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2022 297,058,820 (720,042) 52,333,008 (6,838,465) 1,000,513,508 1,342,346,829
Profit for the year - - - - 147,410,462 147,410,462
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the
year:
- hedge of net investments in foreign
		operations 27(c) - - - 2,612,141 - 2,612,141
- foreign currency translation differences 27(c) - - 7,525,523 - - 7,525,523
- remeasurement of post-employment
		 benefit obligation, net of tax 27(c) - - - - (87,608) (87,608)
- share of other comprehensive loss
		of associate 27(c) - - 60,975 - - 60,975
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 7,586,498 2,612,141 147,322,854 157,521,493
Transactions with owners
Dividends 29 - - - - (59,491,435) (59,491,435)
Issuance of ordinary shares 17 198,178,433 - - - - 198,178,433
Total transactions with owners 198,178,433 - - - (59,491,435) 138,686,998
Balance as at 31 December 2022 495,237,253 (720,042) 59,919,506 (4,226,324) 1,088,344,927 1,638,555,320
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
171
Non-Distributable Distributable
Group Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve
RM
Hedging
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
equity
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2021 263,235,660 (720,042) 47,099,030 2,428,506 876,866,023 1,188,909,177
Profit for the year - - - - 154,838,455 154,838,455
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the
year:
- hedge of net investments in foreign
operations 27(c) - - - (9,266,971) - (9,266,971)
- foreign currency translation differences 27(c) - - 5,312,869 - - 5,312,869
- remeasurement of post-employment
benefit obligation, net of tax 27(c) - - - - 120,650 120,650
- share of other comprehensive loss of
associate 27(c) - - (78,891) - - (78,891)
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 5,233,978 (9,266,971) 154,959,105 150,926,112
Transactions with owners
Dividends 29 - - - - (31,311,620) (31,311,620)
Issuance of ordinary shares 17 33,823,160 - - - - 33,823,160
Total transactions with owners 33,823,160 - - - (31,311,620) 2,511,540
Balance as at 31 December 2021 297,058,820 (720,042) 52,333,008 (6,838,465) 1,000,513,508 1,342,346,829
Statements of Changes in Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
172
Statements of Changes in Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Non-distributable Distributable
Company Note
Share
capital
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2021 263,235,660 (720,042) 7,507,506 270,023,124
Profit for the financial year - - 24,572,107 24,572,107
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 24,572,107 24,572,107
Transactions with owners
Dividends 29 - - (31,311,620) (31,311,620)
Issuance of ordinary shares 17 33,823,160 - - 33,823,160
Total transactions with owners 33,823,160 - (31,311,620) 2,511,540
Balance as at 31 December 2021/
Balance as at 1 January 2022 297,058,820 (720,042) 767,993 297,106,771
Profit for the financial year - - 75,838,032 75,838,032
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income, net of tax - - 75,838,032 75,838,032
Transactions with owners
Dividends 29 - - (59,491,435) (59,491,435)
Issuance of ordinary shares 17 198,178,433 - - 198,178,433
Total transaction with owners 198,178,433 - (59,491,435) 138,686,998
Balance as at 31 December 2022 495,237,253 (720,042) 17,114,590 511,631,801
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
173
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 188,081,441 196,759,858 75,462,754 26,872,062
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 746,903 790,196 - -
Bad debts recovered - (17,705) (1,000,000) (1,614,928)
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment 7 63,536,458 61,538,789 - -
- investment properties 9 1,021,236 1,004,733 - -
Gain on lease termination (184,599) (680) - -
Loss/(Gain) on disposals of property,
plant and equipment 92,329 (2,748,422) - -
Impairment loss on:
- intangible assets 10 1,573,551 1,002,169 - -
- property, plant and equipment - 331,005 - -
- trade receivables 14(h) 2,297,072 4,247,440 - -
(Decrease)/Increase in defined benefit
obligation 22(d) (454,035) 163,887 - -
Interest expense 26 56,043,780 32,817,049 11,520,000 11,520,000
Interest income (456,521) (314,717) - -
Inventories written (back)/down 13(b) (285,007) 13,905,591 - -
Net fair value loss/(gain) on derivatives 15(d) 42,708,372 (28,634,708) (6,505,921) 13,228,980
Property, plant and equipment written off 7 250,933 5,045 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade
receivables 14(h) (1,746,844) (2,336,176) - (35,072)
Share of loss/(profit) of associate 123,165 (410,611) - -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange
translations (7,399,404) (190,342) (4,104,546) (10,053,742)
Operating profit before changes in
working capital 345,948,830 277,912,401 75,372,287 39,917,300
Inventories 325,347,693 (574,100,538) - -
Trade and other receivables (140,721,389) 8,996,469 (52,517,263) (24,271,132)
Trade and other payables (147,627,705) 296,424,920 (13,876) 107,659
Net cash generated from operations 382,947,429 9,233,252 22,841,148 15,753,827
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
174
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Net cash generated from operations
carried forward 382,947,429 9,233,252 22,841,148 15,753,827
Interest paid (54,690,057) (31,329,272) (11,520,000) (11,520,000)
Interest received 456,521 314,717 - -
Retirement benefits paid 22(d) (329,124) (48,052) - -
Tax paid (52,356,003) (57,435,481) (1,431,727) (1,936,644)
Tax refunded 1,679,135 131,088 - -
Net cash from/(used in) operating
activities 277,707,901 (79,133,748) 9,889,421 2,297,183
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING
ACTIVITIES
Investment in a subsidiary - - (137,965,500) -
Placements of deposits with licensed
banks with original maturity of more
than three months (173,121) (403,183) (125,000) (120,781)
Proceeds from disposals of property,
plant and equipment 942,276 10,124,131 - -
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment 7(a) (274,821,653) (174,311,461) - -
Net cash used in investing activities (274,052,498) (164,590,513) (138,090,500) (120,781)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid (70,035,503) (36,276,170) (70,035,503) (36,276,170)
Net movements in borrowings (128,083,563) 257,851,225 - -
Net placement of fixed deposits pledged (757,615) (641,173) - -
Proceeds from issuance of new shares 17 198,178,433 33,823,160 198,178,433 33,823,160
Repayments of lease liabilities 8 (13,687,268) (13,526,480) - -
Net cash (used in)/from financing
activities (14,385,516) 241,230,562 128,142,930 (2,453,010)
Net decrease in cash and cash
equivalents (10,730,113) (2,493,699) (58,149) (276,608)
Effects of exchange rate changes on
cash and cash equivalents 5,101,493 (2,952,474) - -
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning
of financial year 52,892,082 58,338,255 616,126 892,734
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
financial year 16(d) 47,263,462 52,892,082 557,977 616,126
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
175
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Lease liabilities
(Note 8)
Borrowings
(Note 20)
Group
RM
Company
RM
Group
RM
Company
RM
At 1 January 2021 59,124,605 - 1,034,973,554 300,000,000
Cash flows
- Payment of lease liabilities (12,038,703) - - -
- Interest paid (1,487,777) - (32,817,049) -
- Net repayments of borrowings - - 290,668,274 -
Non-cash flows:
- Additions 14,439,345 - - -
- Effect of foreign exchange (2,338,853) - (535,211) -
- Termination (150,984) - - -
- Unwinding of interest 1,487,777 - - -
At 31 December 2021/At 1 January 2022 59,035,410 - 1,292,289,568 300,000,000
Cash flows
- Payment of lease liabilities (12,333,545) - - -
- Interest paid (1,353,723) - (54,690,057) -
- Net repayments of borrowings - - (73,393,506) -
Non-cash flows:
- Additions 27,315,307 - - -
- Effect of foreign exchange (148,933) - (3,451,629) -
- Termination (3,879,072) - - -
- Unwinding of interest 1,353,722 - - -
At 31 December 2022 69,989,166 - 1,160,754,376 300,000,000
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
176
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office of the Company is located at No.7 (1st Floor), Jalan Pesta 1/1, Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1, Jalan Bakri,
84000 Muar, Johor Darul Takzim.
The principal place of business is located at PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2, Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim.
The ultimate holding company of the Company is Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., which is incorporated in
Malaysia.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 comprise the Company and
its subsidiaries and interests of the Group in associate. These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia
(“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional currency.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 5
April 2023.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding and provision of management services to subsidiaries.
The principal activities and details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements. There have
been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
3. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company set out on pages 167 to 261 have been prepared in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of
adoption of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the
financial year are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
4.1 Basis of accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRSs and IFRSs requires the Directors to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and
disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. In addition, the Directors are also required to exercise
their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving such judgements,
estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements. Although these estimates and
assumptions are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results could differ from
those estimates.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
177
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.2 Basis of consolidation
Where the company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. The company controls an
investee if all three of the following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns
from the investee, and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns. Control is
reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of
control.
De-facto control exists in situations where the company has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities
of the investee without holding the majority of the voting rights. In determining whether de-facto control exists
the company considers all relevant facts and circumstances, including:
(a) The size of the company’s voting rights relative to both the size and dispersion of other parties who hold
voting rights;
(b) Substantive potential voting rights held by the company and by other parties;
(c) Other contractual arrangements; and
(d) Historic patterns in voting attendance.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of the company and its subsidiaries ("the Group") as if
they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between group companies are therefore
eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the acquisition
method. In the statement of financial position, the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of acquired operations are
included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases.
4.3 Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured
at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
(a) Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are
recognised and measured in accordance with MFRS 112 Income Taxes and MFRS 119 Employee Benefits
respectively;
(b) Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment transactions of the acquiree or the
replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment transactions are measured in accordance
with MFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; and
(c) Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with MFRS 5 Non-current
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the
serviced are received.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
178
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.3 Business combinations (continued)
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Measurement period
adjustments to contingent consideration are dealt with as follows:
(a) If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for
within equity.
(b) Other contingent consideration that:
(i) is within the scope of MFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in
fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with MFRS 9; and
(ii) is not within the scope of MFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes
in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.
In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are re-measured
to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised in profits or loss.
Components of non-controlling interests in the acquire that are present ownership interests and entitle their
holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation are initially measured at fair
value, or at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquire
identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-
date fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by MFRSs. The choice of measurement basis is
made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent to initial recognition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’
share of subsequent changes in equity.
Any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the business combination, the
amount of non-controlling interests in the acquiree (if any), and the fair value of the Group’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities
is recorded as goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial position. The accounting policy for goodwill
is set out in Note 4.8 to the financial statements. In instances where the latter amount exceeds the former, the
excess is recognised as a gain on bargain purchase in profit or loss on the acquisition date. 
4.4 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate,
only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset
would flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of parts
that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Cost also comprises the initial estimate of dismantling and removing
the item and restoring the site on which it is located for which the Group is obligated to incur when the asset is
acquired, if applicable.
Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost
of the asset and which has different useful life, is depreciated separately.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
179
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.4 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation (continued)
After initial recognition, property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight line basis over
their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods and rates are as follows:
Factory buildings and renovation 5 years to 50 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment 5% - 12.5%
Motor vehicles 16% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 5% - 16.7%
Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Capital work-in-progress represents machineries
and software systems under installation and is stated at cost. Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated until
such time when the asset is available for use.
At the end of each reporting period, the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is
assessed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not
be recoverable. A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount (see Note 4.9 to
the financial statements on impairment of non-financial assets).
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to
ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the
expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the items of property, plant
and equipment. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an
accounting estimate. 
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds, if
any, and the carrying amount is included in profit or loss.
4.5 Leases
The Group as a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the commencement date of the contract for
all leases excluding short-term leases or leases for which the underlying asset is of low value, conveying the
right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time.
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both:
(a) periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option;
and
(b) periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that
option.
In assessing whether a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an
option to terminate a lease, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive for the lessee to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the
lease. The Group revises the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
180
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.5 Leases (continued)
The Group as a lessee (continued)
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases and leases
of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recorded at cost, which comprises:
(a) the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability;
(b) any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the lease, less any lease incentives
received;
(c) any initial direct costs incurred by the Group; and
(d) an estimate of costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing the underlying asset,
restoring the site on which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the
lessor.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability.
The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the
earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term, as follows:
Factory buildings and renovation:
- Rented buildings 2-3 years
- Leasehold warehouse 34 years
Leasehold land 25-60 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment 2-4 years
Motor vehicles 3-5 years
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date. The lease payments are discounted using the incremental borrowing rate of the Group.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, the Group measures the lease liability by increasing the carrying amount
to reflect interest in the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect lease payments made, and
remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-
substance fixed lease payments.
The Group as a lessor
Leases in which the Group and the Company do not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership
of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and are recognised over the lease term on the same bases as
rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
181
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.6 Investment properties
Investment properties are properties which are held to earn rental yields or for capital appreciation or for both
and are not occupied by the Group. Investment properties also include properties that are being constructed
or developed for future use as investment properties. Investment properties are initially measured at cost,
including transaction costs, less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the investment properties or recognised as a separate
asset, as appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits
associated with the asset would flow to the Group and the cost of the asset could be measured reliably. The
carrying amount of parts that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of investment
properties are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Cost also comprises the initial estimate of dismantling
and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located for which the Group is obligated to incur
when the investment properties are acquired, if applicable.
After initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of the investment properties to their residual values
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods for the investments
properties are as follows:
Freehold building 30 years
Leasehold buildings 43 years
Leasehold land 13 years
Leasehold office 27 years
At the end of each reporting period, the carrying amount of an item of the investment properties is assessed for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable.
A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount (see Note 4.9 to the financial
statements on impairment of non-financial assets).
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to
ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the
expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the investment properties.
If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting
estimate.
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when they are permanently
withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The gains or losses arising
from the retirement or disposal of investment property is determined as the difference between the net disposal
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss in the period of the
retirement or disposal.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
182
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.7 Investments
(a) Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity in which the Group and the Company are exposed, or have rights, to variable
returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and have the ability to affect those returns through its
power over the subsidiary.
An investment in subsidiary, which is eliminated on consolidation, is stated in the separate financial
statements of the Company at cost less impairment loss, if any. Investments accounted for at cost shall be
accounted for in accordance with MFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
when they are classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale)
in accordance with MFRS 5.
When control of a subsidiary is lost as a result of a transaction, event or other circumstance, the Group
would derecognise all assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests at their carrying amount and to
recognise the fair value of the consideration received. Any retained interest in the former subsidiary is
recognised at its fair value at the date control is lost. The resulting difference is recognised as a gain or
loss in profit or loss.
(b) Associate
An associate is an entity over which the Group and the Company have significant influence and that is
neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint arrangement. Significant influence is the power to participate
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is neither control nor joint control over
those policies.
In the separate financial statements of the Company, an investment in associate is stated at cost less any
impairment losses.
An investment in associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
method of accounting. The investment in associate in the consolidated statement of financial position
is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the share of net
assets of the investments of the Group.
The interest in an associate is the carrying amount of the investment in the associate under the equity
method together with any long term interest that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the
associate of the Group.
The share of the profit or loss of the associate by the Group during the financial year is included in the
consolidated financial statements, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the
Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Distributions received from the associate reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Adjustments to
the carrying amount could also be necessary for changes in the proportionate interest of the Group in the
associate arising from changes in the associate’s equity that have not been recognised in the associate’s
profit or loss. Such changes include those arising from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment
and from foreign exchange translation differences. The share of those changes by the Group is recognised
directly in equity of the Group.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the
extent of the interest of the Group in the associate to the extent that there is no impairment.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
183
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.7 Investments (continued)
(b) Associate (continued)
When the share of losses of the Group in the associate equals to or exceeds its interest in the associate,
the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the Group does not recognise further losses
unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on its behalf.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained
interest plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date
when equity method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.
When the interest of the Group in an associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is
recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are
also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified
to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
4.8 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill recognised in a business combination is an asset at the acquisition date and is initially measured
at cost being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling
interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the
entity over net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed. If, after reassessment, the interest of the Group in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net
assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in
the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the
excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Goodwill
is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired. Objective events that would trigger a
more frequent impairment review include adverse industry or economic trends, significant restructuring
actions, significantly lowered projections of profitability, or a sustained decline in the acquiree’s market
capitalisation. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill
relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of an associate is the excess of cost of investment over the share of the
net fair value of net assets of the associates’ identifiable assets and liabilities by the Group at the date of
acquisition.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not
amortised. The excess of the share of the net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities
by the Group over the cost of investment is included as income in the determination of the share of the
associate’s profit or loss by the Group in the period in which the investment is acquired.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
184
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.8 Intangible assets (continued)
(b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are recognised only when the identifiability, control and future economic benefit
probability criteria are met.
The Group recognises at the acquisition date separately from goodwill, an intangible asset of the acquiree,
irrespective of whether the asset had been recognised by the acquiree before the business combination.
In-process research and development projects acquired in such combinations are recognised as an asset
even if subsequent expenditure is written off because the criteria specified in the policy for research and
development is not met. 
Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of intangible assets recognised in a business
combination is their fair values as at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or
indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated
economic useful lives and are assessed for any indication that the asset could be impaired. If any such
indication exists, the entity shall estimate the recoverable amount of the asset. The amortisation period
and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end
of each reporting period. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in
profit or loss and is included within the other operating expenses line item.
An intangible asset has an indefinite useful life when based on the analysis of all the relevant factors, there
is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows to
the Group. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually and wherever
there is an indication that the carrying amount may be impaired. Such intangible assets are not amortised.
Their useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and
circumstances continue to support the indefinite useful life assessment for the asset. If they do not, the
change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate in accordance with MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Expenditure on an intangible item that is initially recognised as an expense is not recognised as part of the
cost of an intangible asset at a later date.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from
its use. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition determined as the difference between the net
disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss when the
asset is derecognised.
Trademark
Acquired trademark with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the
cost of trademark over its estimated useful lives of fifteen (15) years.
Acquired trademark with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
185
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.8 Intangible assets (continued)
(b) Other intangible assets (continued)
Non-contractual customer relationships
Acquired non-contractual customer relationships have finite useful lives and are carried at cost less
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the
straight line method to allocate the cost of non-contractual customer relationships over its estimated
useful lives of twenty (20) years.
4.9 Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amount of assets, except for financial assets (excluding investments in subsidiaries and associate),
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether
there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken
annually at the financial year end. Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where the carrying
value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell),
the asset is written down accordingly.
The recoverable amount of an asset is estimated for an individual asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of the individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the cash generating unit (“CGU”)
to which the asset belongs. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition date, allocated
to each of the CGU or groups of CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving
rise to the goodwill irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units
or groups of units.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination shall be tested for impairment as part of the impairment testing
of CGU to which it relates. The CGU to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the
Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not larger than an operating
segment determined in accordance with MFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
In estimating the value in use, the estimated future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing
use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for
which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss
when the carrying amount of the asset or the CGU, including the goodwill or intangible asset, exceeds the
recoverable amount of the asset or the CGU. The total impairment loss is allocated, first, to reduce the carrying
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis of
the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
The impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately, if any.
An impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. An impairment loss for other assets is
reversed if, and only if, there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets’ recoverable
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
186
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.9 Impairment of non-financial assets (continued)
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised. Such reversals are recognised as income immediately in profit or loss.
4.10 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out formula. The cost of raw materials comprises all cost of purchase
plus other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost of work-in-
progress and finished goods includes the cost of raw materials, direct labour, other direct cost and a proportion
of production overheads based on normal operating capacity of the production facilities.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
4.11 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability
or equity instrument of another enterprise.
A financial asset is any asset that is cash, an equity instrument of another enterprise, a contractual right to
receive cash or another financial asset from another enterprise, or a contractual right to exchange financial
assets or financial liabilities with another enterprise under conditions that are potentially favourable to the
Group.
A financial liability is any liability that is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to
another enterprise, or a contractual obligation to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another
enterprise under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group.
Financial instruments are recognised on the statements of financial position when the Group has become a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. At initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial
asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
financial asset and liability.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contact is not a
financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to the economic
characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contact is not measured at fair value through profit
or loss. The host contact, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contact.
(a) Financial assets
When financial assets are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial
assets not at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL), directly attributable transaction costs.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
187
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.11 Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Financial assets (continued)
The Group determines the classification of financial assets upon initial recognition. The measurement for
each classification of financial assets are as below:
(i) Financial assets measured at amortised cost
Financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at amortised cost if they are held within a
business model whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows and have contractual terms
which give rise on specific dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss through the amortisation process.
Financial assets are carried net of any impairment losses if any.
(ii) Financial assets measured at fair value
Financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive
Income (FVTOCI), if they are held within a business model whose objectives are to collect contractual
cash flows and selling the financial assets, and have contractual terms which give rise on specific
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets that are debt instruments are measured at
fair value. Any gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in other
comprehensive income, except for impairment losses, exchange differences and interest income
which are recognised in profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment
when the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets that are debt instruments which do not satisfy the requirements to be measured at
amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL.
Equity instruments are classified as financial assets measured at FVTPL if they are held for trading or
are designated as such upon initial recognition. Equity instruments are classified as held for trading if
they are acquired principally for sale in the near term or are derivatives that do not meet the hedge
accounting criteria (including separated embedded derivatives).
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets that are equity instruments are measured at fair
value. Any gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive
payment is established.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the asset has
expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of the consideration received is recognised in profit or loss.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
188
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.11 Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Financial assets (continued)
Cash and bank balances are measured at amortised cost. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on
hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly liquid investments which have an insignificant risk of
changes in fair value with original maturities of three (3) months or less and are used by the Group in the
management of its short term commitments. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and
cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or marketplace
convention. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as
applicable, using trade date accounting.
(b) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into
and the definition of a financial liability.
Financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the Group
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. Financial liabilities are classified
as either financial liabilities measured at FVTPL or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(i) Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL include financial liabilities held for trading and financial
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in
the near term. This includes derivatives entered into by the Group that does not meet the hedge
accounting criteria. Derivatives liabilities are initially measured at fair value and subsequently stated
at fair value, with any resultant gains or losses recognised in profit or loss except for the Group’s
own credit risk increase or decrease which is recognised in other comprehensive income. Net gain
or losses on derivatives include exchange differences.
(ii) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value plus directly
attributable transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
For financial liabilities measured at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
189
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.11 Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Financial liabilities (continued)
A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, it is extinguished, i.e. when the obligation
specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. An exchange between an existing borrower
and lender of debt instruments with substantially different terms are accounted for as an extinguishment
of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial
modification of the terms of an existing financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the
original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another
party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
recognised in profit or loss.
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
The Group designates corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to subsidiaries as
insurance contracts as defined in MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The Group recognises these insurance
contracts as recognised insurance liabilities when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as
a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits
would be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether its recognised insurance liabilities are
adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If this assessment
shows that the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities is inadequate, the entire deficiency shall be
recognised in profit or loss.
Recognised insurance liabilities are only removed from the statements of financial position when, and
only when, it is extinguished via a discharge, cancellation or expiration.
(c) Equity instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and the
Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received at issuance and classified as equity. Transaction
costs directly related to the issuance of equity instrument are accounted for as a deduction from equity,
net of any related income tax benefit. Otherwise, they are charged to profit or loss.
Interim dividends to shareholders are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared. Final
dividends are recognised upon the approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
190
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.11 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Equity instrument (continued)
When the Group repurchases its own shares, the shares repurchased would be accounted for using the
treasury stock method.
Where the treasury stock method is applied, the shares repurchased and held as treasury shares shall be
measured and carried at the cost of repurchase on initial recognition and subsequently. It shall not be
revalued for subsequent changes in the fair value or market price of the shares.
The carrying amount of the treasury shares shall be offset against equity in the statements of financial
position.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the own
equity instruments of the Company. If such shares are issued by resale, any difference between the sales
consideration and the carrying amount is shown as a movement in equity.
(d) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation are hedges against the exposure to exchange rate fluctuations
on the net asset of the Group’s foreign operations. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating
to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equity via other
comprehensive income while any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised directly
in profit or loss. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss.
4.12 Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company applies the simplified approach to measure expected credit loss (“ECL”). This
entails recognising a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
Expected credit losses are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive. The estimate of expected cash
shortfall shall reflect the cash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the
contractual terms. The shortfall is then discounted at an approximation to the asset’s original effective interest
rate of the asset.
The Group considers credit loss experience and observable data such as current changes and futures forecasts
in economic conditions of the Group’s industry to the financial statements to estimate the amount of expected
impairment loss. The methodology and assumptions including any forecasts of future economic conditions are
reviewed regularly.
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based
on the simplified approach within MFRS 9 using the lifetime expected credit losses.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
191
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.12 Impairment of financial assets (continued)
In measuring the expected credit losses on trade receivables, the probability of non-payment by the trade
receivables is adjusted by forward looking information and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising
from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the trade receivables. For trade receivables,
which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss being
recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the
trade receivable would not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the
associated impairment.
Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general
approach within MFRS 9 using the forward looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to
determine the amount of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk
since initial recognition of the financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has not increased significantly
since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve month expected credit losses along with gross interest
income are recognised. For those in which credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses
along with the gross interest income are recognised. At the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk for financial assets by comparing the risk for default
occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those that are determined
to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income on a net basis are recognised.
Credit impaired refers to any individually determined debtors who are in significant financial difficulties and
have defaulted on payments to be impaired as at the end of the reporting period.
The probability of non-payment other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries is adjusted by forward
looking information and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the
twelve month or lifetime expected credit loss for the other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced through the use of an allowance for impairment loss
account and the amount of impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. When a financial asset becomes
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for impairment loss account.
4.13 Borrowing costs
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
4.14 Income taxes
Income taxes include all domestic and foreign taxes on taxable profit. Income taxes also include other taxes,
such as withholding taxes, which are payable by foreign subsidiaries to the Group and Company, and real
property gains taxes payable on disposal of properties.
Taxes in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income comprise current tax and deferred
tax.
(a) Current tax
Current tax expenses are determined according to the tax laws of each jurisdiction in which the Group
operates and include all taxes based upon the taxable profits (including withholding taxes payable by
foreign subsidiaries on distribution of retained earnings to companies in the Group), and real property
gains taxes payable on disposal of properties, if any.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
192
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.14 Income taxes (continued)
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the
carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, unless the deferred tax arises from goodwill or
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the
time of transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits would be
available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits
can be utilised. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting
period. If it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits would be available to allow the benefit of
part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised, the carrying amount of the deferred tax asset would be
reduced accordingly. When it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits would be available, such
reductions would be reversed to the extent of the taxable profits.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation
authority on either:
(i) the same taxable entity; or
(ii) different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net
basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which
significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.
Deferred tax would be recognised as income or expense and included in the profit or loss for the period
unless the tax relates to items that are credited or charged, in the same or a different period, directly to
equity, in which case the deferred tax would be charged or credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the announcement of tax rates and tax laws
by the Government in the annual budgets which have the substantive effect of actual enactment by the
end of each reporting period.
4.15 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event,
when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle the
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of a provision would be discounted to its present
value at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the liability.
 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
193
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.15 Provisions (continued)
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If
it is no longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle
the obligation, the provision would be reversed.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. If the Group has a contract that is onerous, the
present obligation under the contract shall be recognised and measured as a provision.
4.16 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence would be confirmed
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group
or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources would be
required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability
that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably. The Group does not recognise a contingent
liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements.
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events whose existence would be confirmed by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group. The
Group does not recognise a contingent asset but disclose its existence where inflows of economic benefits are
probable, but not virtually certain.
In the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group under business combinations, contingent liabilities assumed are
measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
4.17 Employee benefits
(a) Short term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave, paid sick leave, bonuses and non-
monetary benefits are measured on an undiscounted and are expensed when employees have rendered
their services to the Group.
Short term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave are recognised as an expense
when employees render services that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences. Short
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when the absences
occur and they lapse if the current periods entitlement is not used in full and do not entitle employees to
a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the Group.
Bonuses are recognised as an expense when there is a present, legal or constructive obligation to make
such payments, as a result of past events and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.
(b) Defined contribution plans
The Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in Malaysia make contributions to a statutory provident
fund and foreign subsidiaries make contributions to their respective countries’ statutory pension schemes.
The contributions are recognised as a liability after deducting any contribution already paid and as an
expense in the period in which the employees render their services.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
194
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.17 Employee benefits (continued)
(c) Defined benefit plans
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for eligible employees of the Group.
The recognition and measurement of the defined benefits plan involve:
(i) Determining the deficit or surplus by:
(a) Using an actuarial technique, the projected unit credit method, to make a reliable estimate of
the ultimate cost to the Group of the benefit that employees have earned in return for their
service in the current and prior periods;
(b) Discounting that benefit in order to determine the present value of the defined benefit
obligation and the current service cost; and
(c) Deducting the fair value or any plan assets from the present value of the defined benefit
obligation.
(ii) Determining the amount of the net defined benefit liability as the amount of the deficit or surplus as
determined above, adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling;
and
(iii) Determining amounts to be recognised in profit or loss, i.e. current service cost, any past service
cost and gain or loss on settlement and net interest on the net defined benefit liability.
The Group determines the net defined benefit liability annually so that the amounts recognised in the
financial statements do not differ materially from the amounts that would be determined at the end of the
reporting period.
The Group recognises the net defined benefit liability in the statements of financial position.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit
method.
The Group uses the yield rate of high quality government or corporate bonds which have AA rating or
higher to discount the post-employment benefit obligations. The currency and term of the government
bonds (corporate bonds) are consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-employment
benefit obligations of the Group.
There-measurementofthenetdefinedobligationisrecogniseddirectlywithinequity.There-measurement
includes:
(i) Actuarial gains and losses;
(ii) Return on plan assets, excluding interest; and
(iii) Any asset ceiling effects, excluding interest.
Services costs are recognised in profit or loss, and include current and past service costs as well as gains
and losses on curtailments.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
195
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.17 Employee benefits (continued)
(c) Defined benefit plans (continued)
Net interest expense is recognised in profit or loss, and is calculated by applying the discount rate used
to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the balance of the
net defined benefit obligation, considering the effects of contributions and benefit payments during the
reporting period. Gains or losses arising from changes to scheme benefits or scheme curtailment are
recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Settlement of defined benefit schemes are recognised in the period when the settlement occurs.
If there is no minimum funding requirement for contributions relating to future service, the economic
benefit available as a reduction in future contributions is the present value of future service cost to
the entity at the end of each reporting period over the shorter of the expected life of the plan and the
expected life of the entity. The Group would assume no change to the benefits provided by a plan in the
future until the plan is amended and shall assume a stable workforce in the future unless it is demonstrably
committed at the end of the reporting period to make a reduction in the number of employees covered
by the plan.
4.18 Foreign currencies
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the entities of the Group are measured using the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
functional and presentation currency.
(b) Foreign currency translations and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period
are translated into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at that date. All exchange differences
arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of foreign currency
monetary assets and liabilities are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Non-monetary
items initially denominated in foreign currencies, which are carried at historical cost, are translated using
the historical rate as of the date of acquisition, and non-monetary items, which are carried at fair value
are translated using the exchange rate that existed when the values were determined for presentation
currency purposes.
(c) Foreign operations
Financial statements of foreign operations are translated at end of the reporting period exchange rates
with respect to their assets and liabilities, and at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions with
respect to items reflected in profit or loss and other comprehensive income. All resulting translation
differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
196
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.18 Foreign currencies (continued)
(c) Foreign operations (continued)
In the consolidated financial statements, exchange differences arising from the translation of net
investment in foreign operations are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or
sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in profit or loss as part of the gain
or loss on disposal.
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of the net investment of the Company
in a foreign operation shall be recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the
Company or the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the consolidated financial statements, such exchange
differences shall be recognised initially as a separate component of equity and recognised in profit or loss
upon disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition of a foreign
operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity and translated at the exchange rate
ruling at the end of the reporting period.
4.19 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred
when (or as) the customer obtains control of the asset.
The Group transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria
is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
(b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable. The following describes the
performance obligations in contracts with customers.
Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of products is recognised at a point in time when the products has been transferred to the
customer and coincides with the delivery of products and acceptance by customers.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on
the normal credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
197
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.19 Revenue recognition (continued)
Revenue recognition not in relation to performance obligations is described below:
(a) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established.
(b) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term of an ongoing lease.
(c) Management fee
Management fee from rendering of services is recognised when the services are rendered.
(d) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
4.20 Operating segments
Operating segments are defined as components of the Group that:
(a) Engages in business activities from which it could earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues
and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the Group);
(b) Whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker of the Group in
making decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assessing its performance; and
(c) For which discrete financial information is available.
An operating segment may engage in business activities for which it has yet to earn revenues.
The Group reports separately information about each operating segment that meets any of the following
quantitative thresholds:
(a) Its reported revenue, including both sales to external customers and intersegment sales or transfers, is ten
percent (10%) or more of the combined revenue, internal and external, of all operating segments.
(b) The absolute amount of its reported profit or loss is ten percent (10%) or more of the greater, in absolute
amount of:
(i) The combined reported profit of all operating segments that did not report a loss; and
(ii) The combined reported loss of all operating segments that reported a loss.
(c) Its assets are ten percent (10%) or more of the combined assets of all operating segments.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
198
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.20 Operating segments (continued)
Operating segments that do not meet any of the quantitative thresholds may be considered reportable, and
separately disclosed, if the management believes that information about the segment would be useful to users
of the financial statements.
Total external revenue reported by operating segments shall constitute at least seventy five percent (75%) of
the Group’s revenue. Operating segments identified as reportable segments in the current financial year in
accordance with the quantitative thresholds would result in a restatement of prior period segment data for
comparative purposes.
4.21 Earnings per share
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial
year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year.
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial
year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year adjusted for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
4.22 Fair value measurement
The fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date. The fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer
the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most
advantageous market.
The Group measures the fair value of an asset or a liability by taking into account the characteristics of the asset
or liability if market participants would take these characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability.
The Group has considered the following characteristics when determining fair value:
(a) The condition and location of the asset; and
(b) Restrictions, if any, on the sale or use of the asset.
The fair value measurement for a non-financial asset takes into account the ability of the market participant
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
199
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
4.22 Fair value measurement (continued)
The fair value of a financial or non-financial liability or an entity’s own equity instrument assumes that:
(a) A liability would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would be required to fulfil
the obligation. The liability would not be settled with the counterparty or otherwise extinguished on the
measurement date; and
(b) An entity’s own equity instrument would remain outstanding and the market participant transferee would
take on the rights and responsibilities associated with the instrument. The instrument would not be
cancelled or otherwise extinguished on the measurement date.
5. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSS AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSS
5.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the
Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020 1 January 2022
Reference to the Conceptual Framework (Amendments to MFRS 3 Business
Combinations) 1 January 2022
Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use (Amendments to MFRS
116 Property, Plant and Equipment) 1 January 2022
Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract (Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets) 1 January 2022
Adoption of the above Standards did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of
the Group and the Company.
5.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023
The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been early
adopted by the Group and the Company:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative Information
(Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contract) 1 January 2023
Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial
Statements) 1 January 2023
Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 1 January 2023
Deferred tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
(Amendments to MFRS 112 Income Taxes) 1 January 2023
Lease liability in a sale and leaseback (Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases) 1 January 2024
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
200
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
5. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSS AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSS (CONTINUED)
5.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023 (continued)
The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been early
adopted by the Group and the Company: (continued)
Title Effective Date
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current (Amendments to MFRS 101
Presentation of Financial Statements) 1 January 2024
Non-current Liabilities with Covenants (Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of
Financial Statements) 1 January 2024
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
(Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures) Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards and
Amendments, since the effects would only be observable for the future financial years.
6. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
6.1 Changes in estimates
Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Directors are of the opinion that there are no significant changes in estimates at the end of the reporting
period.
6.2 Critical judgements made in applying accounting policies
There are no critical judgments made by management in the process of applying the Company’s accounting
policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
6.3 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the
end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
(a) Adequacy of write down of inventories to net realisable value
Management focused on the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of finished goods to net
realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility, which may
result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.
(b) Recoverability of trade receivables
Recoverability of trade receivables requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining
the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
201
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land
RM
Leasehold
land
RM
Factory buildings
and renovation
Plant, machineries,
tools and equipment
Motor
vehicles Furniture,
fittings
and office
equipment
RM
Capital
work-in-
progress
RM
Total
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January
2022 66,495,667 67,552,952 266,713,617 37,180,741 665,212,354 16,717,133 16,234,684 3,732,041 41,685,613 213,551,012 1,395,075,814
Additions - 1,876,562 792,260 6,256,053 17,273,727 18,603,577 2,894,220 579,115 1,684,900 252,171,899 302,132,313
Disposals - - - - (765,997) - (341,336) - (34,175) (15,623) (1,157,131)
Lease termination - - - (11,986,881) - - - - - - (11,986,881)
Written off - - (17,000) - - - - - (40,915) (543,260) (601,175)
Reclassification - - 117,130,307 - 105,585,004 - 1,003,601 - 5,470,868 (229,189,780) -
Translation differences (1,370,481) 734,011 7,466,507 (17,893) 13,370,325 112,794 377,955 42,971 390,635 (7,230,592) 13,876,232
Balance as at 31 December
2022 65,125,186 70,163,525 392,085,691 31,432,020 800,675,413 35,433,504 20,169,124 4,354,127 49,156,926 228,743,656 1,697,339,172
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January
2022 - (9,811,347) (57,389,442) (14,006,471) (308,499,067) (4,864,706) (11,251,070) (1,462,096) (27,787,873) - (435,072,072)
Charge for the financial year - (2,054,029) (8,310,589) (8,054,363) (37,926,237) (1,996,832) (1,801,393) (752,411) (2,640,604) - (63,536,458)
Disposals - - - - - - 92,526 - 30,000 - 122,526
Lease termination - - - 8,292,409 - - - - - - 8,292,409
Written off - - 57 - 316,900 - - - 33,285 - 350,242
Translation differences - (344,997) (1,809,925) 47,725 (6,324,039) 7,172 (341,391) (10,028) (108,847) - (8,884,330)
Balance as at 31 December
2022 - (12,210,373) (67,509,899) (13,720,700) (352,432,443) (6,854,366) (13,301,328) (2,224,535) (30,474,039) - (498,727,683)
Accumulated impairment
losses
Balance as at 1 January
2022/31 December 2022 - - - - (2,543,360) - - - - - (2,543,360)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December
2022 65,125,186 57,953,152 324,575,792 17,711,320 445,699,610 28,579,138 6,867,796 2,129,592 18,682,887 228,743,656 1,196,068,129
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
202
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Group
Freehold
land
RM
Leasehold
land
RM
Factory buildings
and renovation
Plant, machineries,
tools and equipment
Motor
vehicles Furniture,
fittings
and office
equipment
RM
Capital
work-in-
progress
RM
Total
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Owned
RM
Right
-of-use
assets
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January
2021 72,974,297 55,042,613 246,806,601 29,506,494 633,507,130 17,522,457 13,636,314 2,448,090 40,664,772 110,993,777 1,223,102,545
Additions - 13,231,342 15,438,520 11,915,158 21,813,546 - 3,030,836 1,927,017 1,854,316 119,540,071 188,750,806
Disposals (5,561,915) - - - (1,811,558) - (642,825) - (5,411) (109,239) (8,130,948)
Lease termination - - - (38,548) - - - (573,903) - - (612,451)
Written off - - - (3,340,402) - - - - (7,239) - (3,347,641)
Reclassification - - - - 8,628,115 - - - - (8,628,115) -
Translation differences (916,715) (721,003) 4,468,496 (861,961) 3,075,121 (805,324) 210,359 (69,163) (820,825) (8,245,482) (4,686,497)
Balance as at 31 December
2021 66,495,667 67,552,952 266,713,617 37,180,741 665,212,354 16,717,133 16,234,684 3,732,041 41,685,613 213,551,012 1,395,075,814
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January
2021 - (7,689,245) (48,782,518) (10,344,522) (270,192,054) (3,078,494) (10,884,039) (1,121,597) (24,047,989) - (376,140,458)
Charge for the financial year - (1,963,855) (7,776,542) (7,287,601) (36,450,429) (2,003,469) (774,913) (812,336) (4,469,644) - (61,538,789)
Disposals - - - - 107,703 - 642,825 - 4,711 - 755,239
Lease termination - - - 24,093 - - - 438,054 - - 462,147
Written off - - - 3,340,402 - - - - 2,194 - 3,342,596
Translation differences - (158,247) (830,382) 261,157 (1,964,287) 217,257 (234,943) 33,783 722,855 - (1,952,807)
Balance as at 31 December
2021 - (9,811,347) (57,389,442) (14,006,471) (308,499,067) (4,864,706) (11,251,070) (1,462,096) (27,787,873) - (435,072,072)
Accumulated impairment
losses
Balance as at 1 January
2021 - - - - (2,212,355) - - - - - (2,212,355)
Additions - - - - (331,005) - - - - - (331,005)
Balance as at 31 December
2021 - - - - (2,543,360) - - - - - (2,543,360)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December
2021 66,495,667 57,741,605 209,324,175 23,174,270 354,169,927 11,852,427 4,983,614 2,269,945 13,897,740 213,551,012 957,460,382
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
203
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and
equipment:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Additions of property, plant and equipment 302,132,313 188,750,806
Rented right-of-use assets recognition for:
- leasehold land (1,876,562) (1,362,105)
- factory buildings and renovation (6,256,053) (11,915,158)
- plant, machineries, tools and equipment (18,603,577) -
- motor vehicles (579,115) (1,162,082)
Cash outflow for acquisition of property, plant and equipment 274,817,006 174,311,461
(b) The carrying amount of certain property, plant and equipment of the Group charged to financial institutions
for credit facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements at the end of the
reporting period are as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Freehold land 9,350,462 9,409,543
Factory buildings and renovation - owned 80,024,507 78,775,658
Leasehold land 460,000 480,000
Plant and machineries - owned 134,637,642 91,783,281
224,472,611 180,448,482
(c) In the previous financial year, impairment loss on certain plant and machineries of the Group of RM331,005 was
recognised due to decline in down-stream operations of a subsidiary in Malaysia. Management estimated the
recoverable amounts based on fair value less costs of disposal. Following the impairment loss recognised, the
recoverable amount was equal to the carrying amount. The recoverable amounts were determined using Level
3 fair value measurements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
204
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
Right-of-use assets
Rights-of-use assets related to leased properties, motor vehicles and plant, machinery and equipment that do not meet the definition of investment
property are presented as property, plant and equipment.
Right-of-use assets are re-presented and analysed as follows:
Group
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2022
RM
Additions
RM
Depreciation
RM
Termination
RM
Translation
difference
RM
Balance
as at
31.12.2022
RM
Leasehold land (Note 7) 57,741,605 1,876,562 (2,054,029) - 389,014 57,953,152
Factory buildings and renovation (Note 7) 23,174,270 6,256,053 (8,054,363) (3,694,473) 29,833 17,711,320
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment (Note 7) 11,852,427 18,603,577 (1,996,832) - 119,966 28,579,138
Motor vehicles (Note 7) 2,269,945 579,115 (752,411) - 32,943 2,129,592
95,038,247 27,315,307 (12,857,635) (3,694,473) 571,756 106,373,202
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2021
RM
Additions
RM
Depreciation
RM
Termination
RM
Translation
difference
RM
Balance
as at
31.12.2021
RM
Leasehold land (Note 7) 47,353,368 13,231,342 (1,963,855) - (879,250) 57,741,605
Factory buildings and renovation (Note 7) 19,161,972 11,915,158 (7,287,601) (14,455) (600,804) 23,174,270
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment (Note 7) 14,443,963 - (2,003,469) - (588,067) 11,852,427
Motor vehicles (Note 7) 1,326,493 1,927,017 (812,336) (135,849) (35,380) 2,269,945
82,285,796 27,073,517 (12,067,261) (150,304) (2,103,501) 95,038,247
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
205
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
Lease liabilities
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Balance as at 1 January 59,035,410 59,124,605
Additions 27,315,307 14,439,345
Lease payments (13,687,268) (13,526,480)
Interest expense 1,353,722 1,487,777
Termination (3,879,072) (150,984)
Translation difference (148,933) (2,338,853)
Balance as at 31 December 69,989,166 59,035,410
Represented by:
Current liabilities 9,552,357 12,929,847
Non-current liabilities 60,436,809 46,105,563
69,989,166 59,035,410
Lease liabilities owing to financial institutions 25,998,179 9,994,856
Lease liabilities owing to non-financial institutions 43,990,987 49,040,554
69,989,166 59,035,410
(a) The Group has certain leases of hostel, warehouse and machineries with lease term of 12 months or less. The
Group applies the “short-term lease” exemption for these leases.
(b) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets 12,857,635 12,067,261
Interest expense on lease liabilities 1,353,723 1,487,777
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in cost of sales and
administration expenses) 12,080,855 9,013,859
26,292,213 22,568,897
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
206
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
(c) The following are total cash outflows for leases as a lessee:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Included in net cash from operating activities:
Payment relating to short-term leases 12,080,855 9,013,859
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 1,353,723 1,487,777
Included in net cash from investing activities:
Purchase of right-of-use assets 4,647 12,634,172
Included in net cash from financing activities:
Payment of lease liabilities 13,687,268 13,526,480
Total cash outflow for leases 27,126,493 36,662,288
(d) The Group leases several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. These are used to
maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. Management
exercises judgement in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain to
be exercised.
There is no undiscounted potential future rental payments that are not included in the lease term as at the end
of each reporting period.
(e) Weighted average incremental borrowing rates of the lease liabilities of the Group as at the end of the reporting
period ranged from 1.30% to 11.00% (2021: 1.30% to 11.00%) per annum.
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cost
Balance as at 1 January 27,501,110 27,222,320
Translation differences 423,836 278,790
Balance as at 31 December 27,924,946 27,501,110
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 January (7,182,311) (6,087,646)
Charge for the financial year (1,021,236) (1,004,733)
Translation differences (148,710) (89,932)
Balance as at 31 December (8,352,257) (7,182,311)
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December 19,572,689 20,318,799
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
207
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
(a) The investment properties consist of the following:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Freehold building 3,639,327 3,633,638
Leasehold buildings 11,553,490 11,874,420
Leasehold land 2,948,736 3,363,979
Leasehold office 1,431,136 1,446,762
19,572,689 20,318,799
(b) Rental income and direct operating expenses arising from investment properties during the financial year are as
follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Rental income derived from investment properties 1,694,112 3,192,693
Direct operating expenses generating rental income (99,919) (97,941)
Profit arising from investment properties carried at fair value net of direct
operating expenses 1,549,193 3,094,752
(c) The fair value of the investment properties of approximately RM22,800,000 (2021: RM23,300,000) at Level
3 was recommended by the Directors as at the end of reporting period based on comparison method that
makes reference to recent market value of a similar property in the vicinity on a price per square feet basis.
Any changes in the price per square feet will result in a reasonable change in the fair value of the investment
property.
(d) Freehold building with an aggregate carrying amount of RM3,639,327 (2021: RM3,633,638) are charged to a
financial institution for banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
208
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
The Group as lessor
The Group had entered into non-cancellable lease agreements on certain premises and equipment with third parties.
The monthly rental consists of a fixed base rent.
The Group has aggregate future minimum lease receivable under the above non-cancellable operating leases as at
the end of each reporting period as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Less than one (1) year 2,881,985 1,193,238
One (1) to two (2) years 2,472,927 501,205
Two (2) to three (3) years 778,256 368,712
Three (3) to four (4) years 381,364 368,712
Four (4) to five (5) years 222,761 220,397
6,737,293 2,652,264
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Group
At 31 December 2022
Goodwill
RM
Trademark
RM
Non-
contractual
customer
relationships
RM
Total
RM
Cost
At beginning of financial year 65,162,895 10,640,734 15,082,770 90,886,399
Translation differences 541,477 (88,264) (71,039) 382,174
At end of financial year 65,704,372 10,552,470 15,011,731 91,268,573
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of financial year - (4,760) (1,518,915) (1,523,675)
Charge for the financial year - (941) (745,962) (746,903)
Translation differences - (256) (3,963) (4,219)
At end of financial year - (5,957) (2,268,840) (2,274,797)
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning of financial year (1,002,169) - - (1,002,169)
Impairment (1,573,551) - - (1,573,551)
At end of financial year (2,575,720) - - (2,575,720)
Net carrying amount 63,128,652 10,546,513 12,742,891 86,418,056
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
209
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Group
At 31 December 2021
Goodwill
RM
Trademark
RM
Non-
contractual
customer
relationships
RM
Total
RM
Cost
At beginning of financial year 66,982,386 11,286,575 15,696,684 93,965,645
Translation differences (1,819,491) (645,841) (613,914) (3,079,246)
At end of financial year 65,162,895 10,640,734 15,082,770 90,886,399
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of financial year - (3,732) (796,044) (799,776)
Charge for the financial year - (887) (789,309) (790,196)
Translation differences - (141) 66,438 66,297
At end of financial year - (4,760) (1,518,915) (1,523,675)
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning of financial year - - - -
Impairment (1,002,169) - - (1,002,169)
At end of financial year (1,002,169) - - (1,002,169)
Net carrying amount 64,160,726 10,635,974 13,563,855 88,360,555
(a) Goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives has been allocated to the identified cash generating
units (“CGU”) according to relevant operating segments based on the geographical location of customers as
follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Goodwill
Germany 49,087,880 49,398,045
Indonesia 8,845,832 8,392,458
United States 5,194,940 6,370,223
63,128,652 64,160,726
Trademark
Germany 10,538,361 10,627,344
73,667,013 74,788,070
(b) For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating divisions, which represent
the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
210
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(c) The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using cash flow
projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period with various inputs,
assumptions and terminal value. The following key assumptions are used to generate the financial budgets:
Group
2022
%
2021
%
Sales growth rates
Germany 3 3
Indonesia 1 1
United States 2 2
Pre-tax discount rate
Germany 10.6 10.4
Indonesia 18.1 18.1
United States 9.1 8.3
Germany and Indonesia CGUs
Based on the annual impairment testing undertaken by the Group, no impairment losses were required for the
carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives as at 31 December 2022 as their
recoverable amounts were in excess of their carrying amounts.
Management is not aware of any reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the
carrying amount of the media CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
United States CGU
Impairment loss of RM1,573,551 (2021: RM1,002,169) was recognised to reduce the carrying amount to their
recoverable amount due to decline in operations. The impairment loss was allocated fully to goodwill, and is
recorded in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the Group.
(d) The calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the following assumptions:
(i) Sales growth rate
The forecasted sale growth rate has considered business past performance and management’s
expectations of market development.
(ii) Pre-tax discount rate
Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU. This is the
benchmark used by management to assess the operating performance of the CGUs. 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
211
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
At cost
Unquoted equity shares
At beginning of financial year 79,828,114 79,828,114
Additions (Note 11(c)) 137,965,500 -
At end of financial year 217,793,614 79,828,114
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning/end of financial year (4,870,001) (4,870,001)
Unquoted equity shares, at cost 212,923,613 74,958,113
Equity loan 52,274,417 52,274,417
265,198,030 127,232,530
(a) Equity loan
Equity loans to subsidiaries, which are unsecured, interest-free and the subsidiary has the unconditional right
to avoid settlement of the loan in cash, and are considered to be part of the investments of the Company in
providing the subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.
Impairment for equity loans to subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using
the forward looking expected credit loss model.
No expected credit loss is recognised arising from equity loans to subsidiaries of the Company as it is negligible.
The Directors of the Company have reassessed the nature of the amounts owing by subsidiaries and determined
that an outstanding balance amounting to RM52,274,417 (2021: RM52,274,417) shall constitute an equity loan
to subsidiaries as these amounts are unsecured, interest free and settlement is neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future and are considered to be part of the investment of the Company providing the
subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
212
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
(b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place of
business
Effective
interest in equity
Principal activities
2022 2021
% %
Guan Chong Cocoa
Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.#
Malaysia 100 100 Producing cocoa-derived food
ingredients.
Guan Chong Trading Sdn.
Bhd.#
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant.
GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture, marketing and
promotion of cocoa related
products.
GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd. (“GCBCM”)#
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture of cocoa cake,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder,
cocoa mass and other related
cocoa products.
GCB America, Inc (“GCBA”)* United States of
America
100 100 Investment holding.
Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding.
GCB Oversea Holdings
Corporation (“GCBOHC”)^
Federal Territory of
Labuan, Malaysia
100 100 Investment holding.
GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte.
Ltd. (“GCBCS”)#
Singapore 68.11
(Direct)
***31.89
(Indirect)
- Trading of cocoa beans, cocoa-
derived food ingredients and
cocoa products.
(i) Subsidiaries of GCBOHC
		 GCB Cacao GmbH* Germany 100 100 Dormant.
		 GCB Cocoa Singapore
			Pte. Ltd. (“GCBCS”)#
Singapore - 100 Trading of cocoa beans, cocoa-
derived food ingredients and
cocoa products.
(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS
		 PT Asia Cocoa
			Indonesia^
Indonesia 90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
Manufacture of cocoa butter,
cocoa cake and cocoa liquor.
		 PT GCB Cocoa
			Indonesia^
Indonesia 90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
90
(Direct)
**10
(Indirect)
Trading of cocoa products.
		 GCB Cocoa Cote
			D’Ivoire (“GCBCCI”)#
Ivory Coast 100 100 Processing of cocoa into semi-
finished and finished products.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
213
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
(b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place of
business
Effective
interest in equity
Principal activities
2022 2021
% %
(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS (continued)
		Schokinag Holding
			GmbH (“SCHOKINAG”)#
Germany 100 100 Investment holding.
		 GCB Cocoa UK Limited
			(“GCBCUK”)^
United Kingdom 100 100 Manufacturing of cocoa related
products and providing value-
added services for cocoa
products.
		 GCB Cocoa Trading
			Cote D’Ivoire
			(“GCBCTI”)#
Ivory Coast 100 100 Trading of cocoa beans.
		 GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.
			(“GCBCE”)*
Netherlands 100 100 Trading of cocoa products.
(iii) Subsidiary of GCBA
		 Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC* United States of
America
100 100 Manufacture of cocoa ingredients.
(iv) Subsidiaries of SCHOKINAG
		Schokinag Verwaltungs
			GmbH (“SVG”)#
Germany 100 100 Property holding company.
		Schokinag-Schokolade-
			Industrie GmbH
			(“SSIG”)#
Germany 100 100 Production and sales of chocolate
products.
(v) Subsidiary of GCBCUK
		 GCB UK Property
			Limited (“GCBUKP”)****
United Kingdom 100 - Property management company.
# Audited by BDO PLT, BDO Member Firms or BDO Alliance Firm.
^ Audited by firms other than BDO PLT and BDO Member Firms.
* Not a legal requirement to be audited, consolidated based on unaudited management accounts.
** Indirect interest held through Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
*** Indirect interest held through GCBOHC.
**** Newly incorporated during the financial year, consolidated based on unaudited management accounts
for the financial period ended 31 December 2022.
(c) During the financial year, the company inject RM137,965,500 (equivalent to USD31,000,000) additional capital
into GCBCS, thereby acquiring 68.11% equity interest. Ultimately, there is no change in equity interest held by
the Group, whereby 31.89% owned indirectly through GCBOHC.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
214
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
(d) During the financial year, the Group has acquired 100% equity interest in newly incorporated GCBUKP for total
cash consideration of RM1,587,780 (equivalent to GBP300,000). Upon incorporation, GCBUKP became wholly
owned subsidiary of the Group.
Subsequently, the Group subscribed for an additional 5,500,000 ordinary shares in GCBCUK for a total cash
consideration of RM28,590,100 (equivalent to GBP5,500,000). Consequently, there was no change in the
effective equity interest held by the Group.
(e) During the financial year, the Group subscribed for an additional 1,639,892 ordinary shares in a wholly owned
subsidiary, GCBCCI for a total cash consideration of RM115,059,963 (equivalent to CFA16,398,920,000).
Consequently, there was no change in the effective equity interest held by the Group.
(f) The Group does not have any subsidiary that has non-controlling interests, which is individually material to the
Group for both financial years ended 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021.
(g) In the previous financial year, the Group has acquired 100% equity interest in newly incorporated GCBCTI and
GCBCE for total cash consideration of RM1,505,206 (equivalent to CFA200,066,885) and RM49,351 (equivalent
to EUR10,000) respectively. Upon incorporation, GCBCTI and GCBCE became wholly owned subsidiaries of the
Group.
12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATE
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unquoted equity shares, at cost 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000
Share of post-acquisition reserves, net of
dividends received (510,523) (448,333) - -
4,489,477 4,551,667 5,000,000 5,000,000
(a) The details of the associate is as follows:
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place of
business
Effective
interest in equity
Principal activities
2022 2021
% %
SMC Food21 Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd. (“SMC”)^
Malaysia 20 20 Production of blended cocoa-
derived food ingredients.
^ Audited by firms other than BDO PLT.
(b) The Group does not have any associate, which is individually material to the Group for both financial years
ended 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
215
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
(c) The Group recognised its share of results in SMC based on unaudited financial statements as at 31 December
2022. The summarised unaudited financial information for the associate is as follows:
2022
RM
2021
RM
Assets and liabilities
Current assets 49,466,297 42,740,964
Non-current assets 59,302,494 59,139,161
Total assets 108,768,791 101,880,125
Current liabilities 80,671,811 70,609,872
Non-current liabilities 8,677,949 11,540,293
Total liabilities 89,349,760 82,150,165
Results
Revenue 175,888,139 147,871,917
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year (615,825) 2,053,055
Other comprehensive income/loss 304,875 (394,455)
(310,950) 1,658,600
(d) The reconciliation of net assets of the associate to the carrying amount of the investments in associate is as
follows:
2022
RM
2021
RM
Share of net assets of the Group 3,883,802 3,945,992
Goodwill 605,675 605,675
Carrying amount in the statements of financial position 4,489,477 4,551,667
Share of results for the financial year
Share of (loss)/profit (123,165) 410,611
Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) 60,975 (78,891)
Share of total comprehensive (loss)/income (62,190) 331,720
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
216
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
13. INVENTORIES
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At cost
Raw materials 1,053,122,713 1,328,301,185
Work-in-progress 16,240,220 12,837,741
Finished goods 480,576,873 416,373,727
Packaging materials 9,142,364 7,536,232
Stores and supplies 30,142,483 20,832,243
1,589,224,653 1,785,881,128
At net realisable value
Finished goods - 85,549,985
Work-in-progress - 4,026,396
1,589,224,653 1,875,457,509
(a) During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM3,657,601,060
(2021: RM3,318,460,313).
(b) During the financial year, the Group had written back inventories amounted to RM285,007 (2021: written down
RM13,905,591) in cost of sales.
(c) Inventories with carrying amounts of RM74,534,618 (2021: RM69,908,925) are held as security by way of floating
charge for the Group’s banking facilities as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
217
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-current
Other receivables
Amounts owing by:
- subsidiaries (interest bearing) - - 517,248,924 451,609,203
- subsidiaries (non-interest bearing) - - 15,541,187 7,709,518
- - 532,790,111 459,318,721
Current
Trade receivables
Third parties 433,106,532 385,264,881 - -
Amounts owing by:
- holding company - - 10,000 -
- an associate 255,240 1,234,337 - -
- a related party 374,364 521,312 - -
- subsidiaries - - 3,000 45,000
433,736,136 387,020,530 13,000 45,000
Less: Allowance for impairment losses (14,229,612) (23,697,767) - -
419,506,524 363,322,763 13,000 45,000
Other receivables
Sundry receivables 186,649,281 54,252,245 - -
Amounts owing by:
- a related party 190,253 190,253 - -
- a subsidiary (dividend receivable) - - - 10,000,000
- subsidiaries (non-interest bearing) - - 6,139,970 11,963,951
186,839,534 54,442,498 6,139,970 21,963,951
Less: Allowance for impairment losses (3,776,879) (3,583,304) - -
183,062,655 50,859,194 6,139,970 21,963,951
Subtotal 602,569,179 414,181,957 6,152,970 22,008,951
Deposits and prepayments
Deposits 10,193,929 7,047,891 12,000 5,600
Prepayments 11,981,328 10,413,023 - -
22,175,257 17,460,914 12,000 5,600
624,744,436 431,642,871 6,164,970 22,014,551
Grand total 624,744,436 431,642,871 538,955,081 481,333,272
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
218
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
(a) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group ranged from
30 days to 180 days (2021: 30 days to 120 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which
represent their fair value on initial recognition.
(b) Non-current and non-trade amounts owing by subsidiaries amounted to RM517,248,924 (2021: RM451,609,203)
are unsecured and analysed as follows:
(i) RM351,660,934 (2021: RM168,583,229) that bears interest at rate of 3.9% (2021: 3.9%) per annum.
(ii) RM165,587,990 (2021: RM283,025,974) that bears interest at rate of 3.1% (2021: 3.1%) per annum.
(c) Current and non-trade amounts owing by subsidiaries are unsecured, interest-free and receivable within the
next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.
(d) The currency exposure profile of trade and other receivables (excluding deposits and prepayments) is as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
British Pound 199,937,299 131,566,803 - -
United States Dollar 194,848,276 132,013,892 171,635,790 293,061,735
Euro 90,937,274 53,269,419 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 37,393,573 39,519,127 - -
Chinese Yuan 27,206,907 26,547,246 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 12,792,453 13,540,299 367,307,291 188,265,937
Singapore Dollar 95,294 112,788 - -
Others 39,358,103 17,612,383 - -
602,569,179 414,181,957 538,943,081 481,327,672
(e) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based
on the simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses (“ECL”). Loss rates are based on actual credit
loss experience over past years.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking
information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of customers to settle the receivables and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade
receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
219
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
(f) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group
As at 31 December 2022
Gross
carrying
amount
RM
Lifetime
ECL
RM
Net
carrying
amount
RM
Not past due 284,695,369 (109,733) 284,585,636
Past due:
1 to 30 days 93,308,115 (12,784) 93,295,331
31 to 60 days 22,422,995 (353,073) 22,069,922
61 to 90 days 15,425,903 (111,161) 15,314,742
Over 90 days 4,903,765 (662,872) 4,240,893
136,060,778 (1,139,890) 134,920,888
Individual assessment 12,979,989 (12,979,989) -
433,736,136 (14,229,612) 419,506,524
As at 31 December 2021
Not past due 235,899,553 (68,344) 235,831,209
Past due:
1 to 30 days 81,259,926 (88,237) 81,171,689
31 to 60 days 26,777,673 (230,747) 26,546,926
61 to 90 days 12,755,154 (225,296) 12,529,858
Over 90 days 8,405,888 (1,162,807) 7,243,081
129,198,641 (1,707,087) 127,491,554
Individual assessment 21,922,336 (21,922,336) -
387,020,530 (23,697,767) 363,322,763
Company
As at 31 December 2022
Not past due 13,000 - 13,000
Individual assessment - - -
13,000 - 13,000
As at 31 December 2021
Not past due 45,000 - 45,000
Individual assessment - - -
45,000 - 45,000
During the financial year, the Group and the Company did not renegotiate the terms of any trade receivables.
These receivables are not secured by any collateral.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
220
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
(g) Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the
forward looking expected credit loss model.
The Group and the Company defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the
receivables, changes to contractual terms, payment delays and past due information.
(h) Trade and other receivables that are past due and impaired at the end of the reporting period and the
reconciliation of movements in allowance for impairment accounts is as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade receivables
At 1 January 23,697,767 21,588,187 - 35,072
Charge for the financial year 2,297,072 4,247,440 - -
Reversal (1,746,844) (2,336,176) - (35,072)
Written off (10,403,435) - - -
Translation differences 385,052 198,316 - -
At 31 December 14,229,612 23,697,767 - -
Other receivables (individually
impaired)
At 1 January 3,583,304 3,455,974 - -
Translation differences 193,575 127,330 - -
At 31 December 3,776,879 3,583,304 - -
(i) The Group sold certain trade receivables to a financial institution with non-recourse conditions for cash
proceeds. These trade receivables have been derecognised from the statements of financial position because
the Group transferred substantially all the risks and rewards – primarily credit risk.
The following information shows the carrying amount of trade receivables at the reporting date that have been
sold with non-recourse arrangement and derecognised from trade receivables:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Carrying amount of trade receivables sold with non-recourse arrangement 118,078,321 89,964,732
(j) Included in other receivables of the Group is an amount due from brokers of RM92,910,289 (2021: RM8,099,059)
includes margin accounts which represents cash deposits held with brokers as collateral against open future
contracts.
(k) Information on financial risks of trade and other receivables is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements. 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
221
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
15. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Contract/
Notional
amount Net
(short)/long
RM
Assets
RM
Liabilities
RM
2022
Group
Commodity futures contracts (Note a) (632,615,682) 42,934,262 (71,838,842)
Commodity option contracts (Note a) 222,087,598 3,877,713 (13,875,974)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 302,333,941 - (4,099,256)
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c) 232,901,550 8,578,504 (2,098,604)
124,707,407 55,390,479 (91,912,676)
2021
Group
Commodity futures contracts (Note a) 851,550,764 27,867,682 (11,815,905)
Commodity option contracts (Note a) (228,497,431) 307,614 (1,001,716)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 286,838,465 - (10,605,177)
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c) 708,350,724 5,288,387 (3,854,710)
1,618,242,522 33,463,683 (27,277,508)
2022
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 302,333,941 - (4,099,256)
2021
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b) 286,838,465 - (10,605,177)
(a) Commodity futures or option contracts
The Group uses commodity futures contracts and commodity options contracts to manage open sales and
purchase commitments and movements in cocoa bean prices in the respective commodity markets. These
contracts are not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with
fair value changes exposure.
(b) Cross currency swap contracts
The cross currency swap contracts of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
(i) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM200,000,000 liability to a fixed rate
of USD49,140,049 liability (“USDRM CCS1”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liabilities in respect of the USDRM
CCS1 as at the end of the financial year is RM2,701,314 (2021: derivative liabilities of RM7,638,002); and
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
222
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
15. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
(b) Cross currency swap contracts (continued)
The cross currency swap contracts of the Group and of the Company are as follows: (continued)
(ii) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM80,000,000 liability to a fixed rate
of USD19,728,730 liability (“USDRM CCS2”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liabilities in respect of the USDRM
CCS2 as at the end of the financial year is RM1,397,942 (2021: derivative liabilities of RM2,967,175).
The Group entered into cross currency swap contracts to serve as a net investment hedge against the Group’s
USD denominated assets arising from its investments in foreign subsidiaries whose net assets are exposed to
currency translation risks and which are held for long term investment purposes.
(c) Foreign currency forward or option contracts
The Group uses forward currency contracts and forward currency option contracts to hedge the Group’s
sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies for which firm commitments existed at the reporting
period. The forward currency contracts have maturity dates that coincide with the expected occurrence of
these transactions. The fair value of these components has been determined based on the difference between
the contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as applicable to a contract of similar amount and maturity
profile at the end of the reporting period.
As at the end of the reporting period, the settlements dates for foreign currency forward contracts range from
1 to 6 months (2021: 1 to 6 months).
(d) During the financial year, the Group recognised a total fair value loss of RM42,708,372 (2021: fair value gain
of RM28,634,708) and the Company recognised a total fair value gain of RM6,505,921 (2021: fair value gain of
RM13,228,980) arising from fair value changes of derivative financial instruments. The fair value changes are
attributable to changes in foreign exchange spot and forward rates. The method and assumptions applied in
determining the fair value of derivatives are disclosed in Note 35(d) to the financial statements.
(e) The currency exposure profile of derivative financial assets/liabilities is as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022 2021
Derivative financial assets
United States Dollar 30,490,039 26,734,100 - -
British Pound 24,732,394 6,726,731 - -
Others 168,046 2,852 - -
55,390,479 33,463,683 - -
Derivative financial liabilities
United States Dollar (52,465,329) (24,498,049) (4,099,256) (10,605,177)
British Pound (39,444,035) (2,750,750) - -
Others (3,312) (28,709) - -
(91,912,676) (27,277,508) (4,099,256) (10,605,177)
(f) Information on financial risks of derivative financial assets/liabilities is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
223
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
16. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cash and bank balances 47,263,462 52,892,082 557,977 616,126
Deposits with licensed banks 21,847,367 20,916,631 6,018,800 5,893,800
69,110,829 73,808,713 6,576,777 6,509,926
(a) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group have maturity period ranging from six months to twelve months,
except for deposits pledged to licensed banks which have maturity period of twelve months (2021: twelve
months).
(b) As at the end of reporting period, the deposits placed with licensed banks of the Group amounting to
RM14,298,801 (2021: RM13,541,186) has been charged to financial institutions as security for credit facilities
granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
(c) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
United States Dollar 26,436,652 40,072,065 32,388 31,035
Ringgit Malaysia 12,640,193 11,590,340 6,544,389 6,478,891
British Pound 10,899,263 6,269,194 - -
Euro 7,905,449 5,463,112 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 4,569,159 5,331,172 - -
Singapore Dollar 1,237,183 1,112,491 - -
Others 5,422,930 3,970,339 - -
69,110,829 73,808,713 6,576,777 6,509,926
(d) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the end
of the reporting period:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cash and bank balances 47,263,462 52,892,082 557,977 616,126
Deposits with licensed banks 21,847,367 20,916,631 6,018,800 5,893,800
69,110,829 73,808,713 6,576,777 6,509,926
Less: Deposits pledged (14,298,801) (13,541,186) - -
Less: Deposits tenure more than three
			(3) months (7,548,566) (7,375,445) (6,018,800) (5,893,800)
47,263,462 52,892,082 557,977 616,126
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
224
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
16. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONTINUED)
(e) No expected credit losses are recognised arising from the deposits with financial institutions because the
probability of default by these financial institutions are negligible.
(f) Information on financial risks of cash and bank balances is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
17. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
2022 2021
Number of
shares RM
Number of
shares RM
Issued and fully paid up ordinary shares
with no par value
At beginning of financial year 1,054,806,783 297,058,820 1,034,307,898 263,235,660
Issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to:
- Warrant exercised 120,108,141 198,178,433 20,498,885 33,823,160
At end of financial year 1,174,914,924 495,237,253 1,054,806,783 297,058,820
(a) During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company was increased
from 1,054,806,783 to 1,174,914,924 ordinary shares by way of issuance of 120,108,141 new ordinary shares
pursuant to 120,108,141 warrants exercised at an exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
(b) In the previous financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company was increased
from 1,034,307,898 to 1,054,806,783 ordinary shares by way of issuance of 20,498,885 new ordinary shares
pursuant to 20,498,885 warrants exercised at an exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.
The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
(c) The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are
entitled to one (1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with
regard to the residual assets of the Company.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
225
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
18. TREASURY SHARES
Group and Company
2022 2021
Number of
shares RM
Number of
shares RM
Ordinary shares
At beginning of financial year/At end of
financial year 400,000 720,042 400,000 720,042
The shareholders of the Company have approved the Company’s plan to repurchase up to 10% of the issued and
paid-up share capital of the Company (“Share Buy Back”). The Directors of the Company are committed to enhance
the value of the Company to its shareholders and believe that the Share Buy Back can be applied in the best interests
of the Company and its shareholders.
19. RESERVES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-distributable
Foreign currency translation reserve 59,919,506 52,333,008 - -
Hedging reserve (4,226,324) (6,838,465) - -
Distributable
Retained earnings 1,088,344,927 1,000,513,508 17,114,590 767,993
1,144,038,109 1,046,008,051 17,114,590 767,993
(a) The movements in each category of reserves are disclosed in the statements of changes in equity.
(b) Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from
the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from
that of the presentation currency of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from
monetary items, which form part of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary
item is denominated in either the functional currency of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
226
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
(c) Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve arising from changes in the fair value relating to the effective portion on the hedge of net
investments in foreign operations.
(d) Warrants
On 12 November 2019, the Company issued 168,022,058 free warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant for every
three (3) existing ordinary shares held in the Company. The warrants were listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities on 12 November 2019.
The warrant issued are constituted by a Deed Poll dated 14 October 2019.
The salient features of the warrants are as follows:
(i) Each warrants entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe for one
new ordinary shares in the Company at an exercise price of RM1.65.
(ii) The warrants shall be exercisable at any time within the period commencing from and inclusive the date
of issue of the warrants and ending on the date immediately preceding the third (3rd) anniversary of the
date of issue, or if such day is not a Market day, then it shall be the Market Day immediately preceding the
said non-Market Day.
(iii) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the warrants shall, upon issue and
allotment, be of the same class and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares, save
and except that such new ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/
or other distributions, at the entitlement date of which is prior to the date of the allotment of these new
ordinary shares.
(iv) Any warrants not exercised during the exercise period will lapse and cease to be valid.
(v) Movements in the Warrants since the listing and quotation thereof are as follows:
Number of
Warrants
As of 12 November 2019 168,022,058
Exercised in financial year 2019 (17,966)
Exercised in financial year 2020 (25,957,028)
Exercised in financial year 2021 (20,498,885)
Exercised in financial year 2022 (120,108,141)
As of 4 November 2022 1,440,038
During the financial year, 120,108,141 warrants were exercised and converted to ordinary shares. On 4
November 2022, remaining unexercised warrants were expired and ceased to be valid.  
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
227
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
20. BORROWINGS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Short term borrowings
Secured:
Revolving credits 118,261,291 114,805,648 - -
Term loans 27,919,416 27,127,340 - -
Trade loans 650,176,699 758,530,467 - -
796,357,406 900,463,455 - -
Long term borrowings
Secured:
Term loans 64,396,970 91,826,113 - -
Unsecured:
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b)) 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000
364,396,970 391,826,113 300,000,000 300,000,000
Total borrowings
Revolving credits 118,261,291 114,805,648 - -
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b)) 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000 300,000,000
Term loans 92,316,386 118,953,453 - -
Trade loans 650,176,699 758,530,467 - -
1,160,754,376 1,292,289,568 300,000,000 300,000,000
(a) The revolving credits, term loans and trade loans of the Group are secured by:
(i) Corporate guarantee from the Company;
(ii) A legal charges over certain property, plant and equipment (Note 7(b)), and investment properties (Note
9(d)) of the Group;
(iii) A floating charge over a subsidiary’s inventories (Note 13(c));
(iv) A fixed and floating charge over a subsidiary’s assets;
(v) Deposits pledged with licensed banks of the Group (Note 16(b)); and
(vi) Negative pledge by certain subsidiaries.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
228
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
20. BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
(b) The Sukuk Wakalah are issued under Islamic medium term notes (“Sukuk Wakalah”) programme of up to
RM800,000,000 in nominal value under the Shariah principle of Wakalah Bi Al-Istithmar (“Sukuk Wakalah
Programme”). The Sukuk Wakalah Programme has a tenure of twenty (20) years from 3 December 2020. The
tenure of each issuance of Sukuk Wakalah shall be more than one (1) year and up to twenty (20) years, provided
that the Sukuk Wakalah matures on or prior to the expiry of the Sukuk Wakalah Programme.
The proceeds raised from the issuance of the Sukuk Wakalah shall be utilised to finance its general working
capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future financing and other
general corporate purposes and/or to provide advance via Shariah-compliant manner to its subsidiaries
for general working capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future
financing and other general corporate purposes.
On 3 December 2020, the Company completed an issuance of Sukuk Wakalah of RM300,000,000 in notional
value (“First Issuance”) with a tenure of seven (7) years from the date of issuance and due for repayment in
December 2027. The Sukuk Wakalah under the First Issuance bears a profit rate of 3.84% per annum and
payable semi-annually.
(c) The currency exposure profile of borrowings is as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
United States Dollar 461,690,105 548,455,935 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 301,370,337 301,781,767 300,000,000 300,000,000
British Pound 227,053,801 350,590,916 - -
Euro 170,640,133 91,460,950 - -
1,160,754,376 1,292,289,568 300,000,000 300,000,000
Certain comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
(d) Information on financial risks of borrowings and their remaining maturity is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
statements.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
229
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS)
(a) The deferred tax assets and liabilities are made up of the following:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Balance as at 1 January 73,357,752 72,497,654
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 27) (781,596) 1,407,189
Recognised in other comprehensive income (24,713) 33,231
Translation differences 827,513 (580,322)
Balance as at 31 December 73,378,956 73,357,752
Reflected in the statements of financial position as follow:
Deferred tax liabilities 74,995,859 75,094,836
Deferred tax assets (1,616,903) (1,737,084)
Balance as at 31 December 73,378,956 73,357,752
(b) The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting
are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) of the Group
Property,
plant and
equipment
RM
Other
temporary
differences
RM
Total
RM
Balance as at 1 January 2022 87,009,827 (13,652,075) 73,357,752
Recognised in profit or loss 3,316,000 (4,097,596) (781,596)
Recognised in other comprehensive income - (24,713) (24,713)
Translation differences 837,527 (10,014) 827,513
Balance as at 31 December 2022 91,163,354 (17,784,398) 73,378,956
Balance as at 1 January 2021 80,844,103 (8,346,449) 72,497,654
Recognised in profit or loss 7,022,204 (5,615,015) 1,407,189
Recognised in other comprehensive income - 33,231 33,231
Translation differences (856,480) 276,158 (580,322)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 87,009,827 (13,652,075) 73,357,752
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
230
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS) (CONTINUED)
(c) The amount of temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised in the statements of
financial position are as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unused tax losses
- No expiry date 24,961,000 6,901,000 - -
- Expires by 31 December 2028 1,539,000 2,408,000 1,211,000 1,268,000
Unabsorbed capital allowances
- No expiry date 5,772,000 5,165,000 - -
32,272,000 14,474,000 1,211,000 1,268,000
Deferred tax assets of the Company and certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items
as it is not probable that taxable profits would be available against which the deductible temporary differences
could be utilised.
The amount and availability of these items to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed above are
subject to the agreement of the respective local tax authorities. Unutilised tax losses of the holding company
and subsidiaries incorporated in Malaysia can be carried forward up to 10 consecutive years of assessment
immediately following the year of assessment under the tax legislation of Inland Revenue Board.
22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS
(a) Certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group in Indonesia operate an unfunded defined benefits retirement plan
required under the Labour Laws of that country in which they operate. The Group is required to pay their
employees termination, appreciation and compensation benefits in case of employment dismissal based on the
employees’ number of years of services provided.
(b) Under the plan, all of the eligible permanent employees of the certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group are
entitled to retirement benefits based on last drawn final salary and length of service attainment of the retirement
age of 55.
(c) The amounts recognised in the statements of financial position are determined as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,720,110 3,215,651
Analysed as follows:
Non-current liabilities 2,720,110 3,215,651
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
231
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)
(d) The following table sets out the reconciliation of defined benefit plan:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Balance as at 1 January 3,215,651 3,138,249
Current service costs 504,347 504,822
Interest costs 146,577 224,099
Past service costs - vested (805,436) (526,790)
Translation differences (299,523) (38,244)
Included in profit or loss (454,035) 163,887
Remeasurement:
Effects of experience adjustment 112,316 (153,620)
Effects of changes in financial assumptions - (261)
Translation differences 175,302 115,448
287,618 (38,433)
Benefits paid (329,124) (48,052)
Balance as at 31 December 2,720,110 3,215,651
(e) The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
Group
2022 2021
Retirement age 55 years 55 years
Discount rate 7.21% 7.00%
Expected rate of salary increases 8.00% 8.00%
(f) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if the significant actuarial assumptions
at the end of each reporting period changed by one hundred (100) basis points with all other variables held
constant:
Group 2022
Increase
RM
Decrease
RM
Discount rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation (204,065) 234,944
Current service cost (33,548) 39,401
Salary increment rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation 230,769 (204,394)
Current service cost 38,676 (33,575)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
232
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)
(f) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if the significant actuarial assumptions
at the end of each reporting period changed by one hundred (100) basis points with all other variables held
constant: (continued)
Group 2021
Increase
RM
Decrease
RM
Discount rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation (354,129) 425,250
Current service cost (47,550) 56,571
Salary increment rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation 416,346 (353,792)
Current service cost 55,215 (47,343)
23. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade payables
Third parties 501,046,295 562,520,825 - -
Other payables
Other payables 52,773,581 45,131,716 - -
Accruals 55,466,753 63,520,744 1,442,133 1,379,841
Deposits received 2,337,225 1,467,791 - -
Dividend payable - 10,544,068 - 10,544,068
Amounts owing to related party 878 833 - -
Amount owing to a subsidiary - - 10,470 86,638
110,578,437 120,665,152 1,452,603 12,010,547
611,624,732 683,185,977 1,452,603 12,010,547
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
233
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
23. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONTINUED)
(a) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group ranged from
30 days to 60 days (2021: 30 days to 60 days).
(b) The currency exposure profile of trade and other payables are as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
United States Dollar 304,102,204 294,962,057 - 86,638
Euro 129,921,426 84,386,962 - -
British Pound 100,252,401 202,617,604 - -
Ringgit Malaysia 41,245,979 48,783,616 1,452,603 11,923,909
Singapore Dollar 4,653,006 17,469,546 - -
Indonesian Rupiah 6,943,238 10,596,870 - -
Others 24,506,478 24,369,322 - -
611,624,732 683,185,977 1,452,603 12,010,547
(c) Information on financial risks of trade and other payables is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
24. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
Approved but not contracted for 129,646,000 71,876,000
Contracted but not provided for 104,292,000 101,303,000
233,938,000 173,179,000
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
234
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
25. REVENUE
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Revenue from contracts with customers
- Sale of goods 4,419,609,584 3,923,162,234 - -
Other revenue
- Dividend income from subsidiaries - - 47,916,000 25,000,000
- Interest income 229,340 135,158 13,895,755 14,832,236
- Management fees - - 58,000 60,000
4,419,838,924 3,923,297,392 61,869,755 39,892,236
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by primary geographical market, major
products and service lines and timing of revenue recognition.
Major product and service line/Timing of revenue recognition
Sales of goods/Transferred at point in time
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Germany Others Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM
31 December 2022 1,196,625,760 1,771,095,850 319,558,324 1,045,031,221 87,527,769 4,419,838,924
31 December 2021 1,271,363,043 1,389,169,995 264,671,968 931,630,400 66,461,986 3,923,297,392
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
235
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
26. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration
- statutory audit fees 984,799 910,818 113,000 93,500
- under provision in prior year - 73,576 - -
- non-audit fees 7,086 44,337 5,000 5,000
Interest expense:
- bank commission 5,339,337 5,599,742 - -
- bank overdraft 2,623 1,425 - -
- hire purchase 1,060 3,806 - -
- lease liabilities 1,381,372 1,487,777 - -
- receivable financing 1,433,559 833,755 - -
- revolving credit 191,674 89,337 - -
- term loans 3,713,159 4,170,188 - -
- trade loans 32,460,996 9,111,019 - -
- Sukuk Wakalah 11,520,000 11,520,000 11,520,000 11,520,000
56,043,780 32,817,049 11,520,000 11,520,000
Loss on disposal of property plant and
equipment 92,329 - - -
And after crediting:
Bad debt recovered - (17,705) (1,000,000) (1,614,928)
Gain on disposal of property plant and
equipment - (2,748,422) - -
Insurance claim income (5,822,059) (7,352,890) - -
Interest income (456,521) (314,717) (229,339) -
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
236
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
27. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Current tax expense
- Malaysia income tax 36,335,868 24,717,847 1,350,000 1,725,278
- Foreign income tax 6,947,370 17,356,761 - -
43,283,238 42,074,608 1,350,000 1,725,278
(Over)/Under provision in prior years
- Malaysia income tax (2,107,626) (1,059,020) (1,725,278) 574,677
- Foreign income tax 276,964 (727,485) - -
(1,830,662) (1,786,505) (375,278) 574,677
41,452,576 40,288,103 (375,278) 2,299,955
Deferred tax (Note 21)
- Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences 139,307 1,473,090 - -
- Over provision in prior years (920,904) (65,901) - -
(781,597) 1,407,189 - -
Real property gains tax - 226,111 - -
40,670,979 41,921,403 (375,278) 2,299,955
(a) The Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) of the estimated taxable
profits for the fiscal year.
(b) Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
237
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
27. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
(c) The numerical reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the
applicable tax rates of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit before tax 188,081,441 196,759,858 75,462,754 26,872,062
Tax expense at the applicable tax rate of
24% (2021: 24%) 45,139,545 47,222,366 18,111,061 6,449,295
Tax effects in respect of:
Different tax rate in foreign subsidiaries (5,769,101) (4,820,462) - -
Non-taxable income (9,390,928) (7,292,334) (18,156,028) (10,027,243)
Non-deductible expenses 9,896,284 9,931,492 1,408,492 5,312,980
Real property gains tax - 226,111 - -
Tax incentives (724,788) (4,350,322) - -
Deferred tax assets not recognised /
(Utilisation of deferred tax assets
previously not recognised) 4,271,533 2,856,958 (13,525) (9,754)
43,422,545 43,773,809 1,350,000 1,725,278
(Over)/Under provision in prior years
- income tax (1,830,662) (1,786,505) (1,725,278) 574,677
- deferred tax (920,904) (65,901) - -
40,670,979 41,921,403 (375,278) 2,299,955
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group
2022
Before tax
RM
Tax effect
RM
After tax
RM
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations 2,612,141 - 2,612,141
Foreign currency translation 7,525,523 - 7,525,523
Share of other comprehensive loss of an associate 60,975 - 60,975
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation (112,316) 24,708 (87,608)
10,086,323 24,708 10,111,031
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
238
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
27. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows: (continued)
Group
2021
Before tax
RM
Tax effect
RM
After tax
RM
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations (9,266,971) - (9,266,971)
Foreign currency translation 5,312,869 - 5,312,869
Share of other comprehensive income of associate (78,891) - (78,891)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation 153,881 (33,231) 120,650
(3,879,112) (33,231) (3,912,343)
28. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year.
Group
2022 2021
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (RM) 147,410,462 154,838,455
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,089,924,030 1,041,775,699
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 13.52 14.86
(b) Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year adjusted for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares. The adjusted weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue and issuable has been arrived at based on the assumption that
outstanding warrants are exercised at the beginning of the financial year.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
239
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
28. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE (CONTINUED)
(b) Diluted (continued)
Group
2022 2021
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (RM) - 154,838,455
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue - 1,041,775,699
Effects of dilution due to warrants - 50,680,866
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares applicable to diluted
earnings per share - 1,092,456,565
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) - 14.17
29. DIVIDENDS
Group and Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
First interim single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share,
paid on 12 July 2022 15,896,860 -
Second interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share,
paid on 11 October 2022 22,443,865 -
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:
Final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 June 2022 21,150,710 -
First interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 9 July 2021 - 10,383,851
Second interim single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on
20 January 2022 - 10,544,068
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2020:
Final single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 4 June 2021 - 10,383,701
59,491,435 31,311,620
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend in respect of the current financial year ended 31
December 2022.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
240
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
30. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Salaries, wages and bonuses 118,315,326 134,968,363
Defined contribution plan 6,239,163 6,106,825
Social security contribution 9,312,137 9,663,383
Defined benefit plan (428,115) 167,345
Other benefits 8,621,306 6,391,801
142,059,817 157,297,717
Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM13,786,775
(2021: RM25,240,632).
31. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Executive Directors of the Company:
- Fees 540,000 540,000 - -
- Other emoluments 9,687,162 19,586,384 - -
10,227,162 20,126,384 - -
Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind 95,316 109,653 - -
10,322,478 20,236,037 - -
Executive Directors of the subsidiaries: 4,099,613 5,654,248 - -
Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind 22,700 22,700 - -
4,122,313 5,676,948 - -
Total Executive Directors’ remuneration 14,444,791 25,912,985 - -
Non-Executive Directors of the Company:
- Fees 160,500 225,500 160,500 225,500
- Other emoluments 4,000 5,000 4,000 5,000
164,500 230,500 164,500 230,500
Total Directors’ remuneration including
benefits-in-kind 14,609,291 26,143,485 164,500 230,500
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
241
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Corporate guarantees – unsecured
Issued to banks for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries
- limit of guarantee 2,412,383,970 2,156,421,295
- amount utilised (843,685,742) (997,963,804)
The Directors are of the view that the chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees are
remote. Accordingly, the fair values of the above corporate guarantees given to subsidiaries for banking facilities are
negligible.
33. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the
party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa,
or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related
parties could be individuals or other entities.
The Company has related party relationships with its direct, indirect subsidiaries, associates and ultimate holding
company. In addition, the Company also has related party relationships with the following party:
Related party Relationship with the Group
Enrich Mix Sdn. Bhd. A related party by virtue of the directorship of certain Directors of the Company,
Hia Cheng and Tay Hoe Lian.
(b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the
Company had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Holding
- Management fee income - - 10,000 -
Subsidiaries
- Management fee income - - 48,000 60,000
- Interest income - - 13,666,416 14,697,078
Related party
- Sale of goods (2,830,871) (3,112,984) - -
Associate
- Sale of goods (4,633,305) (4,129,832) - -
Material balances of the above related parties are disclosed in Note 14 and Note 23 to the financial statements.
The related party transactions described above were carried out based on negotiated terms and conditions and
mutually agreed with the related parties.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
242
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
33. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director (whether executive or
otherwise) and any other members of key management personnel of the Group and the Company.
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Directors’ remuneration
including estimated money value of
benefits-in-kind (Note 31) 14,609,291 26,143,485 164,500 230,500
Other key management personnel’s
remuneration 3,642,795 4,157,002 - -
18,252,086 30,300,487 164,500 230,500
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS
Guan Chong Berhad and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in investment holding, manufacturing, distributing
and trading in cocoa butter, cocoa cake, cocoa powder and cocoa-derived food ingredients.
Guan Chong Berhad has arrived at four (4) reportable segments that are Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Germany.
Other operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments comprise operations related to investment
holding and provision of management services.
The accounting policies of operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies.
Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and conditions and is eliminated
on the consolidated financial statements. These policies have been applied constantly throughout the current and
previous financial years.
The respective subsidiaries’ chief operating decision maker monitors the operating results of its business units
separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment
performance is evaluated based on segment profit or loss before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation.
Segment assets
The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total assets are based on all assets
allocated to each reportable segment other than deferred income tax assets and tax recoverable.
Segment liabilities
The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total liabilities are based on all liabilities
allocated to each reportable segment other than income tax liabilities and borrowings.
Certain comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
243
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments:
2022
Malaysia
RM
Singapore
RM
Indonesia
RM
Germany
RM
Others
RM
Eliminations
RM
Consolidated
RM
Revenue
Total external revenue 1,196,625,760 1,771,095,850 319,558,324 1,045,031,221 87,527,769 - 4,419,838,924
Inter-segment revenue 2,160,968,718 2,608,172,492 1,290,618,482 1,345,395 139,001,507 (6,200,106,594) -
Total revenue 3,357,594,478 4,379,268,342 1,610,176,806 1,046,376,616 226,529,276 (6,200,106,594) 4,419,838,924
Segment results 226,638,987 38,125,053 35,949,577 15,401,677 74,695,927 (81,837,924) 308,973,297
Interest income 55,216 75,590 95,731 588 229,396 - 456,521
Finance cost (29,901,904) (24,474,404) (432,009) (2,694,360) (13,539,130) 14,998,027 (56,043,780)
Depreciation and amortisation (21,676,978) (678,454) (18,197,668) (18,654,408) (6,097,089) - (65,304,597)
Segment profit before tax 188,081,441
Tax expense (40,670,979)
Profit for the financial year 147,410,462
Segment assets 1,417,941,690 441,473,618 733,767,524 405,142,268 646,693,648 - 3,645,018,748
Current tax assets 13,738,682
Deferred tax assets 1,616,903
Deferred tax assets 1,616,903
Total assets 3,660,374,333
Segment liabilities 61,496,566 435,633,100 43,510,105 119,096,524 46,521,223 - 706,257,518
Current tax liabilities 9,822,094
Deferred tax liabilities 74,995,859
Borrowings 1,160,754,376
Lease liabilities 69,989,166
Total liabilities 2,021,819,013
Other information:
Capital expenditure 37,142,024 8,576 2,775,241 29,502,125 205,393,766 - 274,821,732
Net fair value (gain)/loss on
derivatives (4,139,898) 54,067,498 - (713,307) (6,505,921) - 42,708,372
Non-cash expenses/(income)
(other than depreciation and
amortisation) 3,865,638 (7,368,180) 917,416 2,283,380 (5,431,094) - (5,732,840)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
244
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments: (continued)
2021
Malaysia
RM
Singapore
RM
Indonesia
RM
Germany
RM
Others
RM
Eliminations
RM
Consolidated
RM
Revenue
Total external revenue 1,271,363,043 1,389,169,995 264,671,968 931,630,400 66,461,986 - 3,923,297,392
Inter-segment revenue 1,894,921,636 3,201,676,611 1,095,564,553 24,077 57,034,108 (6,249,220,985) -
Total revenue 3,166,284,679 4,590,846,606 1,360,236,521 931,654,477 123,496,094 (6,249,220,985) 3,923,297,392
Segment results 156,070,156 83,564,974 31,053,761 33,024,743 28,036,378 (39,154,104) 292,595,908
Interest income 143,776 60,078 110,244 578 41 - 314,717
Finance cost (19,607,834) (12,842,543) (373,361) (2,644,716) (12,633,423) 15,284,828 (32,817,049)
Depreciation and amortisation (20,325,949) (624,153) (16,775,896) (21,011,340) (4,596,380) - (63,333,718)
Segment profit before tax 196,759,858
Tax expense (41,921,403)
Profit for the financial year 154,838,455
Segment assets 1,569,348,562 313,648,213 909,078,406 300,697,726 392,291,272 - 3,485,064,179
Current tax assets 8,670,990
Deferred tax assets 1,737,084
Total assets 3,495,472,253
Segment liabilities 82,185,126 441,964,224 48,401,695 81,506,029 59,622,062 - 713,679,136
Current tax liabilities 13,026,474
Deferred tax liabilities 75,094,836
Borrowings 1,292,289,568
Lease liabilities 59,035,410
Total liabilities 2,153,125,424
Other information:
Capital expenditure 39,807,426 808,475 16,667,891 13,299,325 103,728,344 - 174,311,461
Net fair value (gain)/loss on
derivatives (4,481,497) (37,766,801) - 384,610 13,228,980 - (28,634,708)
Non-cash expenses/(income)
(other than depreciation and
amortisation) 10,825,567 8,750,056 1,501,290 3,137,804 (10,263,516) - 13,951,201
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
245
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Major customer
The following is major customer with revenue equal to or more than 10% of Group’s total revenue:
Revenue Segment
2022
RM
2021
RM
Customer A - 378,019,496 Malaysia and Singapore
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group would be able to maintain an optimal
capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholders’ value. To achieve this objective,
the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic conditions, such as
adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory,
if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group includes within net
debt, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities from financial institutions less cash and bank balances. Capital
includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
As it is common in the cocoa industry for manufacturers or processors to carry cocoa beans inventory that
are sufficient to mitigate the impact of seasonality and varieties of crops, and normally the bean inventory is
financed through trade finance facilities. The interest cost of this is recouped and imputed through cocoa
product pricing. In order to reflect better Group’s gearing position, the net debt is adjusted to exclude trade
finance facilities which are used to finance cocoa bean or raw material. There was no change in the Group’s
approach to capital management during the reporting period.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period was as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Borrowings (Note 20) 1,160,754,376 1,292,289,568
Lease liabilities owing to financial instituitions (Note 8) 25,998,179 9,994,856
Less: Cash and bank balances (Note 16) (69,110,829) (73,808,713)
Net debt 1,117,641,726 1,228,475,711
Total equity 1,638,555,320 1,342,346,829
Debt-to-equity ratio (time) 0.68 0.92
The Group is not subject to any other externally imposed capital requirements 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
246
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets 55,390,479 33,463,683
Amortised cost
Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits and prepayments 602,569,179 414,181,957
Cash and bank balances 69,110,829 73,808,713
671,680,008 487,990,670
727,070,487 521,454,353
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities 91,912,676 27,277,508
Amortised cost
Trade and other payables 611,624,732 683,185,977
Borrowings 1,160,754,376 1,292,289,568
1,772,379,108 1,975,475,545
1,864,291,784 2,002,753,053
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
247
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial instruments (continued)
Categories of financial instruments (continued)
2022
RM
2021
RM
Company
Financial assets
Amortised cost
Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits 538,943,081 481,327,672
Cash and bank balances 6,576,777 6,509,926
545,519,858 487,837,598
545,519,858 487,837,598
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities 4,099,256 10,605,177
Amortised cost
Trade and other payables 1,452,603 12,010,547
Borrowings 300,000,000 300,000,000
301,452,603 312,010,547
305,551,859 322,615,724
(c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
(i) Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are at reasonable
approximation of fair value
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities, such as trade and other receivables, trade
and other payables and floating rate borrowings, are reasonable approximation of fair values, either due
to their short-term nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are re-priced to market interest
rates on or near the end of the reporting period.
The carrying amounts of the current position of borrowings are reasonable approximation of fair values
due to the insignificant impact of discounting.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
248
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value (continued)
(ii) Derivatives
The fair values of commodity futures contracts are determined based on the quoted closing price on the
relevant commodity markets at the end of the reporting period.
The fair value of a forward foreign exchange contract is the amount that would be payable or receivable
upon termination of the outstanding position arising and is determined by reference to the difference
between the contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as at the end of each reporting period applied
to a contract of similar amount and maturity profile.
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is the amount that would be payable or receivable
upon termination of the position at the end of each reporting period, and is calculated as the difference
between the present value of the estimated future cash flows at the contracted rate compared to that
calculated at the spot rate as at the end of each reporting period.
(d) Fair value hierarchy
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
(i) The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the
contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a
risk-free interest.
(ii) Fair value of non-derivative financial liabilities, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated
based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of
interest at the end of the reporting period. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined
by reference to similar borrowing arrangements.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
249
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position.
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments
not carried at fair value Total
fair value
RM
Carrying
amount
RM
2022
Group
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial assets
- Commodity futures contracts - 42,934,262 - - - - 42,934,262 42,934,262
- Commodity option contracts - 3,877,713 - - - - 3,877,713 3,877,713
- Foreign currency forward
		contracts - 8,578,504 - - - - 8,578,504 8,578,504
- 55,390,479 - - - - 55,390,479 55,390,479
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Commodity futures contracts - 71,838,842 - - - - 71,838,842 71,838,842
- Commodity option contracts - 13,875,974 - - - - 13,875,974 13,875,974
- Cross currency swap
		contracts - 4,099,256 - - - - 4,099,256 4,099,256
- Foreign currency forward
		contracts - 2,098,604 - - - - 2,098,604 2,098,604
- 91,912,676 - - - - 91,912,676 91,912,676
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
250
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (continued)
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments
not carried at fair value Total
fair value
RM
Carrying
amount
RM
2021
Group
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial assets
- Commodity futures contracts - 27,867,682 - - - - 27,867,682 27,867,682
- Commodity option contracts - 307,614 - - - - 307,614 307,614
- Foreign currency forward
		contracts - 5,288,387 - - - - 5,288,387 5,288,387
- 33,463,683 - - - - 33,463,683 33,463,683
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Commodity future contracts - 11,815,905 - - - - 11,815,905 11,815,905
- Commodity future contracts - 1,001,716 - - - - 1,001,716 1,001,716
- Cross currency swap
		contracts - 10,605,177 - - - - 10,605,177 10,605,177
- Foreign currency forward
		contracts - 3,854,710 - - - - 3,854,710 3,854,710
- 27,277,508 - - - - 27,277,508 27,277,508
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
251
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)
The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together
with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (continued)
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Fair value of financial instruments
not carried at fair value Total
fair value
RM
Carrying
amount
RM
2022
Company
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Cross currency swap
		contracts - 4,099,256 - - - - 4,099,256 4,099,256
2021
Company
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit or
loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Cross currency swap
		contracts - 10,605,177 - - - - 10,605,177 10,605,177
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
252
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The Group’s financial risk management objective is to optimise value creation for its shareholders whilst minimising
the potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, interest rates and unpredictably
of the financial markets.
The Group operates within an established risk management framework and clearly defined guidelines that are
regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors. Financial risk management is carried out through risk review, internal
control systems and adherence to the Group financial risk management policies. The Group is exposed mainly
to credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk as well as liquidity and cash flow risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below.
(i) Credit risk
Cash deposits and trade receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised if
a counter party fails to perform as contracted. The counter parties are major international institutions and
reputable multinational organisations. It is the policy of the Group to monitor the financial standing of these
counter parties on an ongoing basis to ensure that the Group is exposed to minimal credit risk.
The Group’s primary exposure to credit risk arises through its trade and other receivables. The Group’s trading
terms with its customers are mainly on credit. The credit period is generally for a period of 30 days to 180 days
(2021: 30 days to 120 days). Each customer has a maximum credit limit and the Group seeks to maintain strict
control over its outstanding receivables via a credit control officer to minimise credit risk. Overdue balances are
reviewed regularly by senior management.
The Company provides financial guarantee to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain
subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments made by the
subsidiaries.
Credit risk concentration profile
The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amounts owing by two (2) customers (2021:
two (2) customers) which constituted approximately 12% (2021:16%) of its trade receivables at the end of the
reporting period.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
253
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(i) Credit risk (continued)
Credit risk concentration profile (continued)
The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the country and industry sector profiles of its
trade receivables (including amounts owing by a related party and associate) on an ongoing basis. The credit
risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the end of each reporting period are as
follows, comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:
Group Group
2022
RM
2022
% of total
2021
RM
2021
% of total
By Country
United States 60,010,283 14.3% 34,926,048 9.6%
Indonesia 54,559,632 13.0% 58,527,379 16.1%
Singapore 47,202,821 11.2% 31,153,326 8.6%
China 38,954,782 9.3% 50,456,424 13.9%
Malaysia 28,449,421 6.8% 27,765,825 7.6%
India 27,633,861 6.6% 14,185,848 3.9%
Russia 23,838,926 5.7% 17,728,460 4.9%
Switzerland 21,174,659 5.0% 10,346,261 2.8%
Germany 20,556,376 4.9% 12,984,165 3.6%
Italy 15,445,211 3.7% 10,958,808 3.0%
Netherlands 15,403,386 3.7% 32,984,422 9.1%
Japan 9,747,964 2.3% 5,456,207 1.5%
Brazil 5,394,653 1.3% 6,066,472 1.7%
Other countries 51,134,549 12.2% 49,783,118 13.7%
419,506,524 100% 363,322,763 100.0%
(ii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies
other than the respective functional currencies of entities within the Group. The currencies giving rise to this
risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”) and Euro (“EUR”). Foreign currency risk is
monitored closely on an ongoing basis to ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level. On occasion,
the Group enters into forward currency contracts to hedge against its foreign currency risk. The Group also
holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies for working capital purposes.
The majority of the Group transactional currency risk arises from its foreign currency based forward sales and
purchase of commodity items, contracted along the cocoa bean price chain. These non-financial forward
contracts denominated in foreign currency are exposed to economic risk due to currency fluctuations and
accounted as financial instruments with fair value impact to its financial statements. These forward contracts
on fulfillment at maturity will result in book receivables or payables in foreign currency. 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
254
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(ii) Foreign currency risk (continued)
The Group entity’s currency exposure and corresponding foreign currency contract are mark-to-market and
fair value quarterly for operational hedge effectiveness testing and for management reporting and oversight.
Monthly long-short positions on foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives are also produced for
timely control and intervention.
Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and the Company to a reasonably
possible change in United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”) and Euro (“EUR”) exchange rate against
the respective functional currencies of the Group entities, with all other variables held constant, comparatives
have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:
Group Company
Profit after tax
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
USD/RM - strengthen by 5% (2021: 5%) (21,526,300) (25,425,600) 6,367,600 10,731,200
- weaken by 5% (2021: 5%) 21,526,300 25,425,600 (6,367,600) (10,731,200)
EUR/RM - strengthen by 5% (2021: 5%) (7,665,300) (4,450,400) - -
- weaken by 5% (2021: 5%) 7,665,300 4,450,400 - -
GBP/RM - strengthen by 5% (2021: 5%) (4,984,900) (15,633,100) - -
- weaken by 5% (2021: 5%) 4,984,900 15,633,100 - -
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
255
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(iii) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group would fluctuate because of changes in
market interest rates. The exposures to market risk of the Group for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the deposits placed with licensed
banks and interest bearing borrowings of the Group. There is no formal hedging policy with respect to interest rate exposure.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the remaining
maturities of the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed to interest rate risk, comparatives have been restated to conform with current
year’s presentation:
Group
As at 31 December 2022
Note
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%
Within
1 year
RM
1 - 5
years
RM
More than
5 years
RM
Total
RM
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 16 1.98 21,847,367 - - 21,847,367
Sukuk Wakalah 20 3.84 - (300,000,000) - (300,000,000)
Floating rates
Revolving credits 20 3.82 (118,261,291) - - (118,261,291)
Term loans 20 3.19 (27,919,416) (62,790,597) (1,426,373) (92,316,386)
Trade loans 20 3.60 (650,176,699) - - (650,176,699)
As at 31 December 2021
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 16 1.81 20,916,631 - - 20,916,631
Sukuk Wakalah 20 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rates
Revolving credits 20 0.52 (114,805,648) - - (114,805,648)
Term loans 20 3.13 (27,127,340) (87,040,596) (4,785,517) (118,953,453)
Trade loans 20 1.14 (758,530,467) - - (758,530,467)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
256
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(iii) Interest rate risk (continued)
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the remaining
maturities of the financial instruments of the Company that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Company
As at 31 December 2022
Note
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%
Within
1 year
RM
1 - 5
years
RM
More than
5 years
RM
Total
RM
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 16 2.75 6,018,800 - - 6,018,800
Sukuk Wakalah 20 3.84 - (300,000,000) - (300,000,000)
Floating rate
Amounts owing by subsidiaries 14 3.64 - 517,248,924 - 517,248,924
As at 31 December 2021
Fixed rates
Deposits with licensed banks 16 2.10 5,893,800 - - 5,893,800
Sukuk Wakalah 20 3.84 - - (300,000,000) (300,000,000)
Floating rate
Amounts owing by subsidiaries 14 3.40 - 150,193,229 301,415,974 451,609,203
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
257
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(iii) Interest rate risk (continued)
Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and of the Company if interest rates at
the end of reporting period changed by 100 basis points with all other variables held constant.
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit after tax
- Increase by 1% (2021: 1%) (6,542,000) (7,541,000) 3,931,000 3,432,000
- Decrease by 1% (2021: 1%) 6,542,000 7,541,000 (3,931,000) (3,432,000)
The Group’s exposure to the interest rate risk is lower in 2022 than in 2021 due to the decrease in outstanding
borrowings during the financial year. The assumed movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis
is based on current observable market environment.
(iv) Commodity price risk
Commodity traded by the Group is subject to fluctuations due to a number of factors that result in price
risk. The Group enters into commodity derivatives for trading purposes with the purpose of managing market
exposure to adverse price movement in this commodity. The Group’s trading market risk appetite is determined
by the Board of Directors.
Sensitivity analysis for commodity price risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if commodity price index at the end of
reporting date changed by 1% with all other variables held constant.
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit after tax
- Increase by 1% (2021: 1%) 8,736,000 200,395 - -
- Decrease by 1% (2021: 1%) (8,736,000) (200,395) - -
(v) Liquidity and cash flow risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital. It is the risk that the Group would
encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations when due.
The Group monitors and maintains a level of cash and bank balances deemed adequate by management to
finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. 
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
258
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(v) Liquidity and cash flow risk (continued)
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end
of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations.
As at 31 December 2022
On demand
or within
one year
RM
One to
five years
RM
Over
five years
RM
Total
RM
Group
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 611,624,732 - - 611,624,732
Borrowings 805,863,437 401,948,250 - 1,207,811,687
Derivative financial liabilities 91,912,676 - - 91,912,676
Lease liabilities 14,369,363 33,210,072 36,446,171 84,025,606
1,523,770,208 435,158,322 36,446,171 1,995,374,701
Company
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 1,452,603 - - 1,452,603
Derivative financial liabilities 4,099,256 - - 4,099,256
Borrowings 11,520,000 346,080,000 - 357,600,000
17,071,859 346,080,000 - 363,151,859
As at 31 December 2021
Group
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 683,185,977 - - 683,185,977
Borrowings 910,511,714 127,968,304 313,617,178 1,352,097,196
Derivative financial liabilities 27,277,508 - - 27,277,508
Lease liabilities 14,226,484 23,603,139 30,235,217 68,064,840
1,635,201,683 151,571,443 343,852,395 2,130,625,521
Company
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 12,010,547 - - 12,010,547
Derivative financial liabilities 10,605,177 - - 10,605,177
Borrowings 11,520,000 46,080,000 311,520,000 369,120,000
34,135,724 46,080,000 311,520,000 391,735,724
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
259
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(vi) Net investment hedge
The Group’s foreign operations of various functional currencies when translated into its parent’s reporting
currency based on closing rates (for assets and liabilities) and average transaction rates (for income and
expenses) at consolidation, gives rise to foreign currency translation gain or loss that will be recognised in other
comprehensive income.
A foreign currency exposure arises from the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary that has a USD
functional currency. The risk arises from the fluctuation in spot exchange rates between USD and RM, which
causes the amount of the net investment to vary. The hedged risk in the net investment hedge is the risk of
a weakening USD against the RM that will result in a reduction in the carrying amount of the Group’s net
investment in the Singapore subsidiary.
Part of the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary is hedged by cross currency swap contracts, which
mitigates the foreign currency risk arising from the subsidiary’s net assets. The swap contracts are designated
as a hedging instrument for the changes in the value of the net investment that is attributable to changes in the
RM/USD spot rate. The Group applies a hedge ratio 1:1.
To assess hedge effectiveness, the Group determines the economic relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item by comparing changes in the carrying amount of the swap contracts that is
attributable to a change in the mark-to-market with changes in the investment in the foreign operation due to
movements in the spot rate. The Group’s policy is to hedge the net investment only to the extent of the swap
contracts principal.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
260
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(vi) Net investment hedge (continued)
The amounts related to items designated as hedged items of the Group were as follows:
Change in value used
for calculating hedge
effectiveness
RM
Foreign currency
translation reserve
RM
Balances remaining
in the foreign currency
translation reserve from
hedging relationships
for which hedge
accounting is no
longer applied
RM
2022
- Overseas subsidiary (4,226,324) (4,226,324) -
2021
- Overseas subsidiary (6,838,465) (6,838,465) -
The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments of the Group were as follows:
Notional
amount
RM
Carrying
amount of
liabilities
RM
Line item
in the statement
of financial
position where
the hedging
instrument is
included
Hedging gain or
loss recognised
in OCI
RM
Hedge
ineffectiveness
recognised in
profit or loss
RM
Line item in
the statement of
comprehensive
income that
includes hedge
ineffectiveness
2022
- Cross currency swap
		contracts 302,333,941 (4,099,256)
Derivative
financial liabilities (4,226,324) - Other expenses
2021
- Cross currency swap
		contracts 286,838,465 (10,605,177)
Derivative
financial liabilities (6,838,465) (3,938,813) Other expenses
GUAN CHONG BERHAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
261
Notes to the Financial Statements
31 December 2022
37. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
During the financial year, Russia and Ukraine conflict resulting in the imposition of various economic sanctions on
Russia by several countries across the world. These developments resulted in soaring global commodities and energy
prices.
Known facts and financial impact of non-adjusting events since the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(a) Credit risk on trade receivables
Total trade receivables as at reporting date that exposed from conflict zones amounting to RM23,838,926 as
disclosed in Note 36(i) to the financial statements. Substantial portion of these amounts have been collected
and the remaining uncollected balance is insignificant to the Group.
(b) Increasing energy cost in Germany
The energy prices in Germany, in particular electricity and gas prices, are on the rise even before the above-
mentioned conflict. The conflict has further driven up the energy costs in the country.
The prolonged Russia-Ukraine conflict is still evolving and remains unpredictable. Despite that the Group’s financial
exposure is not significant, the Group is closely monitoring and managing the operations to minimise any impact
arising from the conflict.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
262
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
Lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
Building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2022
Malaysia
PLO273 Jalan Timah
2, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
8 May 2043)
7,976 32 years
(Main factory
and office)
26 years
(second
factory)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCC main office,
production area for
GCC and temporary
warehouse
7 December
1989
6,901,354
No. 49 Jalan 10/9,
Perjiranan 10, Pasir
Gudang, Johor
99 years
(expiring on
6 May 2082)
143 39 years Hostel 28 July 1994 45,412
PLO725, Jalan
Keluli 9, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
17 February
2068)
27,523 16 years Factory / warehouse 9 January
2006
16,865,814
Lot 4-0104(P)
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 3,502 N/A Industrial land 1 July 2013 2,032,207
Lot 4-0117
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July 2013 2,364,104
Lot 4-0118
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July 2013 2,364,104
Lot 4-0119
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 4,073 N/A Industrial land 1 July 2013 2,364,104
Lot 4-0120
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor
Freehold 5,565 5 years
(Warehouse)
Warehouse 1 July 2013 7,234,337
Lot D30 & D31,
Distripark B, Pelepas
Free Zone, Johor
13 years
(expiring on
23 March
2025)
16,107 12 years Rental 2 July 2014 14,502,226
PLO81, Jalan Timah
3, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor.
60 years
(expiring on
21 July 2036)
12,747 N/A Industrial land 4 January
2019
2,800,000
PLO207, Jalan
Tembaga Satu,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring
on 30
September
2045)
8,093.71 5 years
(Main office
and factory)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCBCM main office,
production area for
GCBCM and temporary
warehouse
26 December
1990
14,280,496
PLO233, Jalan
Tembaga Satu,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring on
16 January
2049)
8,044 36 years Industrial premises
with a two storey office
with a single storey
factory and warehouse
15 October
2020
8,086,623
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
263
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
Lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
Building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2022
PLO308, Jalan
Tembaga Dua,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor
60 years
(expiring on
22
September
2045)
8,093 36 years Industrial premises /
factory / warehouse
15 October
2020
7,857,075
PLO480, Jalan Keluli
Tiga, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
17 October
2053)
20,234 11 years Warehouse 30 June 2021 9,167,030
PLO546, Jalan Keluli
Sepuluh, 81700 Pasir
Gudang, Johor
60 years
(expiring on
7 October
2057)
20,166 14 years Warehouse 30 June 2021 7,263,060
Singapore
The Cascadia
943 Bukit Timah
Road
#05-47
Singapore 589659
Freehold 111 13 years Residential 17 January
2011
3,639,324
1 Commonwealth
Lane
#08-04 One
Commonwealth
Singapore 149544
30 years
(expiring on
28 February
2038)
111 15 years Office 19 January
2011
1,431,140
United States
400, Eagle Court
Swedesboro,
Logan Township,
Gloucester County,
NJ 08085
Freehold 6,113.02 N/A Industrial premises
/ Factory consists
of CCC main office,
production area for
CCC
10 April 2017 8,666,113
Ivory Coast
Zone Industrielle de
San Pédro
Bardot 18, Lot 208
TF No. 1138
Bas-Cavally, Ivory
Coast
Leasehold 63,566 1 year Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCBCCI main office
and production area
for GCBCCI
28 January
2019
139,373,144
Indonesia
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. A-F,
Batam, Indonesia
30 years
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
33,181 13 years Industrial premises
/ Factory consists of
PT Asia main office,
production area for PT
Asia
21 June 2010 35,984,655
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. 7-G,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
6,985 17 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
17 March
2011
3,982,138
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
264
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
Lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
Building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2022
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 6 No. 6-D,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
1,257 17 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
17 March
2011
894,846
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. 7-H,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
4,388 16 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
4 August
2020
6,787,146
Komplek Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 7 No. 7-I,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
4,513 16 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
11 January
2021
7,324,101
Komplek
Perumahan
Diamond Palace
Blok B No. 26,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
13 August
2030)
170 18 years Hostel 23
September
2011
454,610
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B3 No. 11, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 17 years Hostel 6 May 2011 162,815
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B3 No. 15, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 17 years Hostel 6 May 2011 162,815
Komplek
Perumahan Purimas
Residence Blok
B5 No. 23, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
28 May 2030)
132 19 years Hostel 6 May 2011 162,815
Kawasan Industri
Kelurahan IV,
Blok 5 Keluruhan
Belian Kecamatan
Batam Kota, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on 8
August 2031)
30,000 10 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
10 January
2012
35,016,950
Komplek. Tunas
Industrial Estate
Type 6 No. 6-C,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
24 August
2030)
942 17 years Industrial premises
and warehouse
8 June 2012 872,113
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
265
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
Lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
Building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2022
Kawasan Daan
Mogot Arcadia,
Rukan Daan Mogot
Permai Blok G15
No.5 & 6, Jl Raya
Daan Mogot KM 21,
Batu Ceper,
Tangerang 15122,
Indonesia.
Leasehold
(expiring on 4
August 2035)
864 10 years Industrial premises 2 October
2012
2,884,474
Palu warehouse
Jalan Trans Sulaiwesi,
Taipa, Palu-Sulaiwesi
Tengah 94352.
Leasehold
(expiring on
21 January
2027)
15,551 16 years Warehouse 13 December
2013
6,915,046
Makassar
Warehouse
Jl. Kima 10 Kav
A/5-a Makassar
90241
Leasehold
(expiring on
29 October
2028)
10,890 24 years Warehouse 10 December
2013
4,593,593
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.1,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
174 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
538,997
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.2,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.3,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.3A, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.5,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.6,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.9,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
266
List of Properties
Location
Tenure /
Term of
Lease
Approximate
Land Area
(sq m)
Approximate
Age of
Building Existing Use
Date of
Acquisition
Net book
Values @
31 December
2022
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.10, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa Bukit
Indah Blok H3 No.11,
Batam, Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12A, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
112 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
348,490
Komplek Villa
Bukit Indah Blok
H3 No.12B, Batam,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
03 October
2031)
174 7 years Hostel 29 December
2015
538,997
Rukan Daan Mogot
Permai
Blok G15 No.1
Jalan Raya Daan
Mogot KM 21 Batu
Ceper,
Tangerang 15122,
Indonesia
Leasehold
(expiring on
21 August
2039)
605 4 years Warehouse 22 August
2019
2,072,046
Germany
Neckarvorlandstraße
21-25, 68159
Mannheim,
Germany
Freehold 13,044 52 years Industrial premises /
factory consists of SVG
main office, production
area for SVG and
residential building
1 January
2020
27,749,555
Fruchtbahnhofstraße
35-41, 68159
Mannheim,
Germany
Leasehold
(expiring
on 30
September
2050)
20,840 N/A Industrial premises 1 October
2020
26,760,428
Am Salzkai,
68159 Mannheim
Germany
Leasehold
(expiring on
31 May 2024)
703 N/A Car Park 1 June 2020 85,600
United Kingdom
Lower Road,
Glemsford,
Sudberry, Suffolk
Freehold 71,872 72 years
(Building One)
22 years
(Building Two)
Industrial premises
/ factory consists of
GCBUK main office
and production area
for GCBUK
25
September
2020
42,389,571
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
267
Other Compliance Information
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS
There were no proceeds raised from any corporate proposal during the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The fees payable to the external auditors in relation to the audit and non-audit services rendered to the Company and
its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 are as follows:
COMPANY GROUP
RM RM
Audit fees 113,000 984,799
Non audit fees 5,000 7,086
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interest of Directors and major shareholders,
either still subsisting at the end of the financial year under review or entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
268
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 7 April 2023
Issued Share Capital 1,174,914,924 ordinary shares (including treasury shares)
1,174,514,924 ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares)
Voting Right One vote per ordinary share
Number of Shareholders 4,825
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings No. of
Shareholders
%* of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares held *
%* of Issued
Share Capital
Less than 100 shares 76 1.58 4,316 Neg
100 to 1,000 shares 1,088 22.55 701,031 0.06
1,001 to 10,000 shares 2,471 51.21 10,999,505 0.93
10,001 to 100,000 shares 946 19.61 28,051,664 2.39
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 241 4.99 540,146,981 45.99
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.06 594,611,427 50.63
TOTAL 4,825 100.00 1,174,514,924 100.00
Notes:
Neg - Negligible
* - Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
No. of Shares held
Name Direct %* Indirect %*
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 594,611,427 50.63 - -
Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
No. of Shares held
Name Direct %* Indirect %*
Tay Hoe Lian 33,111,825 2.82 720,000(1) 0.06
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 13,658,945 1.16 2,590,000(2) 0.22
Hia Cheng 23,312,417 1.98 38,340,042(3) 3.26
Ang Nyee Nyee - - 8,000(4) Neg
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir - - - -
Ng Kim Hian - - - -
Tan Pui Suang - - - -
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
269
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 7 April 2023
HOLDING COMPANY – GUAN CHONG RESOURCES SDN. BHD.
No. of ordinary shares
Name Direct % Indirect %
Tay Hoe Lian 5,130,000 19.00 - -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 3,762,180 13.93 - -
Hia Cheng 1,350,000 5.00 - -
Other than as disclosed above, the Directors of the Company did not have any other interest in the shares of the Company
and its related corporations as at the date of the Analysis of Shareholdings.
Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the Company.
(2) Deemed interest by virtue of his daughter, Tay Jing Ye’s, Tay Sing Ye’s and Tay Lian Shi’s shareholding in the Company.
(3) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughter, Hia Sin Yee’s and Hia Sin Che’s shareholding
in the Company.
(4) Deemed interest by virtue of her spouse, Leong Chee Foong’s shareholding in the Company.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of Shares
held %*
1. Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. 441,166,938 37.56
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account For Guan Chong Resources Sdn Bhd
92,500,000 7.88
3. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account - Ambank (M) Berhad For Guan Chong Resources
Sdn. Bhd. (SMART)
60,944,489 5.19
4. Misi Galakan Sdn Bhd 55,159,998 4.70
5. Lembaga Tabung Haji 35,834,900 3.05
6. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad For Hong Leong Value Fund
31,950,000 2.72
7. Syarikat PJ Enterprise Sdn Bhd 29,799,398 2.54
8. Wong Saow Lai 29,506,709 2.51
9. Tay Hoe Lian 28,911,828 2.46
10. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board
23,490,000 2.00
11. Tan Bak Keng @ Tang Ka Guek 21,436,034 1.83
12. Hia Cheng 16,096,358 1.37
13. Tay Hoe Chin 15,000,000 1.28
14. Tay How Yeh 13,088,171 1.11
15. Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick 12,842,981 1.09
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
270
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 7 April 2023
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of Shares
held %*
16. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board (Amundi)
12,642,000 1.08
17. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad For Hong Leong Balanced Fund
11,150,000 0.95
18. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board (Asianislamic)
10,118,200 0.86
19. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account For Hia Cheng
7,216,059 0.61
20. Chan Lee Yin 6,343,595 0.54
21. Tay Lie Siang 6,083,837 0.52
22. Tay Lee Goh 6,071,207 0.52
23. Tay Lee Shein 6,028,839 0.51
24. T & T Family Sdn Bhd 5,100,000 0.43
25. Hia Sin Yee 4,833,333 0.41
26. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Select Treasures Fund
4,514,800 0.38
27. Tay Lee Lin 4,309,143 0.37
28. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad For Prulink Strategic Fund
4,244,400 0.36
29. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
SSBT Fund J724 For SPDR S&P Emerging Markets ETF
4,056,466 0.35
30. T & T Family Sdn Bhd 3,765,458 0.32
Total 1,004,205,141 85.50
Note:
* - Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES (CONT’D)
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
271
Notice of Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of GUAN CHONG BERHAD (“GCB” or “the
Company”) will be held at Praline & Truffle, ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri, 1 Nusa Sentrum Complex, Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC
Industrial Park, 79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor on Wednesday, 31 May 2023 at 11.00 a.m. for the transaction of the following
businesses:
AGENDA
As Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2022 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and allowances up to RM500,000 for the
financial year ending 31 December 2023 payable monthly in arrears after each month of
completed service of the Directors during the subject financial year.
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 91 of the
Company’s Constitution:
i) Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
ii) Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 99 of the
Company’s Constitution:
i) Ng Kim Hian
ii) Tan Pui Suang
5. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
As Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions with or without any
modifications as resolutions:
6. Proposed renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”)
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Constitution of the Company and the approvals of
the relevant regulatory authorities (where applicable), the Directors of the Company be
hereby authorised to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company, grant rights to
subscribe for shares in the Company, convert any securities into shares in the Company,
or allot shares under an agreement(s) or option(s) or offer(s) (“New Shares”) from time
to time, at such price, to such persons and for such purposes and upon such terms and
conditions as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit and expedient in the
interest of the Company, provided that the aggregate number of such New Shares to be
issued, to be subscribed under any rights granted, to be issued from conversion of any
security, or to be issued and allotted under an agreement or option or offer, pursuant to
this resolution, when aggregated with the total number of any such shares issued during
the preceding 12 months does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of
the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) for the time being (“Proposed General
Mandate”).
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
272
Notice of Annual General Meeting
THAT such approval on the Proposed General Mandate shall continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held
after the approval was given;
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
to be held after the approval was given; or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company in a
general meeting, whichever is the earlier.
THAT the Directors of the Company be hereby also empowered to obtain the approval
from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad for the listing of and quotation for such New Shares
on the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
AND THAT authority be hereby given to the Directors of the Company, to implement,
finalise, complete and take all necessary steps and to do all acts (including execute such
documents as may be required), deeds and things in relation thereto as to give effect to
the Proposed General Mandate with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications,
variations and/or amendments as they may deem fit in the best interest of the Company
and/or as may be imposed by the relevant authorities.
AND FURTHER THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act read together with Clause 9 of the
Company’s Constitution, approval be hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
rights of the shareholders of the Company and to offer New Shares arising from the
issuance and allotment of the New Shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act AND
THAT the Directors of the Company are exempted from the obligation to offer such New
Shares first to the existing shareholders of the Company.”
7. Proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions
of a revenue or trading nature (“RRPT”)
“THAT pursuant to paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad, approval be hereby given for the renewal of shareholders’
mandate for the Company and its subsidiaries (“GCB Group”) to enter into and to give
effect to specified RRPT and with the related parties as stated in Section 4.3 of the Circular
to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023, which are necessary for its day-to-day operations,
to be entered into by the GCB Group on the basis that these transactions are or to be
entered into on terms which are not more favorable to the Related Parties involved than
generally available to the public and are not detrimental to the minority shareholders of
the Company (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”);
THAT the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate is subject to annual renewal. In this respect,
any authority conferred by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate shall only continue to be
in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general meeting at
which the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate has been passed, at which time it will
lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the meeting, the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after the date it is required to
be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall not extend to such extension
as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting,
Ordinary Resolution 8
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
273
whichever is the earlier;
AND THAT the Directors of the Company and/or any of them be hereby authorised to
complete and do all such acts and things (including executing such documents as may
be required) to give effect to the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”
8. Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares
up to ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital
“THAT, subject to compliance with the Act, the Company’s Constitution, the Main Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and all other applicable laws,
regulations, guidelines, the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, the Company be hereby given full authority, to seek shareholders’ approval
for the renewal of authority for the Company to purchase such amount of ordinary shares
in the Company (“Shares”) through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad upon such terms and
conditions as the Directors may deem fit in the interest of the Company provided that:
(i) the aggregate number of Shares so purchased and/or held pursuant to this ordinary
resolution (“Purchased Shares”) does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total issued
share capital of the Company; and
(ii) the maximum amount of funds to be allocated for the Purchased Shares shall not
exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company;
THAT the Directors be hereby authorised to decide at their discretion either to retain
the Purchased Shares as treasury shares (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to
cancel the Purchased Shares and/or to retain the Purchased Shares as treasury shares
for distribution as share dividends to the shareholders of the Company and/or be resold
through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in accordance with the relevant rules of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and/or cancelled subsequently and/or to retain part of the
Purchased Shares as treasury shares and/or cancel the remainder and to deal with the
Purchased Shares in such other manner as may be permitted by the Act, rules, regulations,
guidelines, requirements and/or orders of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and any other
relevant authorities for the time being in force;
AND THAT such approval and authorisation shall only continue to be in force until:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general meeting at
which such resolution was passed at which time it shall lapse unless by ordinary
resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or
subject to conditions; or
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after that date is required by
law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company
in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all such acts and
things (including, without limitation executing all such documents as may be required) as
they may consider expedient or necessary to give full effect to this mandate.”
Ordinary Resolution 9
Notice of Annual General Meeting
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
274
Notice of Annual General Meeting
9. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance with the Act.
By order of the Board,
NG MEI WAN
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000801) (MIA 28862)
TAN HUI KHIM
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000859) (LS 0009936)
Company Secretaries
Muar, Johor
28 April 2023
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2023 shall be regarded as members
and be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint any person as his/her proxy to attend and vote instead of the Member at the
AGM. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at AGM
shall have the same rights as the Member to speak at AGM.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a Member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act, it may appoint at least one
(1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company. In the event member
appoint more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her
shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his/her attorney duly
authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the corporation’s common seal or under the
hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. The Directors may but shall not be bound to require evidence of the
authority of any such attorney or officer. A proxy may but need not be a Member of the Company. The instrument
appointing a proxy shall be deemed to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
6. In the event the member(s) duly executes the Form of Proxy but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be
deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as his/her/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the
Form of Proxy, other than the particulars of the proxy, have been duly completed by the member(s).
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a
notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrars of the Company situated
at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor or by
email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670 or lodged electronically via Boardroom
Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the
time appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to vote by way
of poll. For electronic lodgement please refer to the Administrative Guide of AGM.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
275
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Explanatory Notes:
8. Item 1 of the Agenda
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.
9. Item 2 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 1
Approval of Directors’ fees and allowances for the financial year ending 31 December 2023
Directors’ fees and allowances approved for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 were RM850,000. The
Directors’ fees and allowances proposed for the financial year ending 31 December 2023 are calculated based on the
number of scheduled Board and Committee Meetings for year 2023 and assuming that all Non-Executive Directors
will hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM.
This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and allowances on current financial year basis. In the event
the Directors’ fees and allowances proposed are insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings), approval will be sought at
the next AGM for additional fees and allowances to meet the shortfall.
10. Item 6 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 7
Proposed renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act
(a) The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will grant a mandate (“General Mandate”) empowering the
Directors of the Company, from the date of the Nineteenth AGM to issue and allot shares in the capital of the
Company, grant rights to subscribe for shares in the Company, convert any securities into shares in the Company,
or allot shares under an agreement(s) or option(s) or offer(s) (“New Shares”) from time to time, at such price, to
such persons and for such purposes and upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may in their absolute
discretion deem fit and expedient in the interest of the Company up to an amount not exceeding ten percent
(10%) of the total number of issued shares capital of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied at a
general meeting shall continue to be in full force until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
(b) The General Mandate is a renewal of the previous mandate obtained at the last AGM held on 30 May 2022 which
will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
(c) As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not issue any new ordinary shares based on the previous mandate
obtained at the last AGM.
(d) The General Mandate, if granted will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
including but not limited to further placing of shares, for purpose of funding current and/or future investment
project(s), working capital and/or acquisitions.
(e) By voting in favour the proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, the shareholders of the Company shall agree to waive and
deemed to have waived their statutory pre-emptive right and thus will allow the Directors to issue New Shares
to any person under the General Mandate without having to offer the New Shares to all existing shareholders of
the Company prior to issuance of the New Shares.
11. Item 7 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 8
Proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading
nature (“RRPT”) (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”)
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, will approve RRPT which are necessary for the GCB Group’s day-to-
day operations to be entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with the respective related parties from the
forthcoming AGM to the next AGM; subject to the condition that the transactions are entered into on terms which
are not more favorable to the related parties involved than generally available to the public and are not detrimental
to the minority shareholders of the Company. Further details on the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate are provided in
the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
276
12. Item 8 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 9
Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to ten percent (10%)
of its issued share capital
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 9, if passed, will allow the Directors of the Company to exercise the power of the
Company to purchase not more than ten percent (10%) of the total issued and paid-up share capital of the Company
at any time within the time period stipulated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, shall continue to be in full force
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Further details are set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023.
13. ANNUAL REPORT
The Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 is now available at the Company’s corporate
website, www.gcbcocoa.com. Printed copy of the Annual Report shall be provided to the shareholders upon request
soonest possible from the date of receipt of the request.
Shareholders who wish to receive the printed Annual Report may email your request to Boardroom Share Registrars
Sdn. Bhd. [199601006647 (378993-D)] at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
Notice of Annual General Meeting
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
DETAILS OF INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE STANDING FOR ELECTION AS DIRECTORS
1. Details of Individuals Standing for Election as Directors
No individual is seeking election as a Director at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company.
2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the Main Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Please refer to item 10 – Explanatory Notes to the Agenda for Ordinary Resolution 7 on Proposed renewal of authority
for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
277
Administrative Details
Dear Shareholders
Greeting from GUAN CHONG BERHAD
(A) Details of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”)
Date : Wednesday, 31 May 2023
Time : 11:00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof
Venue : Praline & Truffle,
		 ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri,
		 1 Nusa Sentrum Complex,
		 Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC Industrial Park,
		 79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor
(B) Registration
1. Registration will start at 10.00 a.m. on Wednesday, 31 May 2023.
2. Kindly produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) to the registration staff at the registration counter
for verification. Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
3. Upon verification, you are required to sign on the Attendance list prepared by the registration staff.
4. After registration, a polling slip will be issued to the respective shareholders and/or proxy holders and will only be
given a wristband as identification in order to vote.
5. No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person, even with the original MyKad/Passport of that
person.
6. The registration counter will handle only the verification of identity and registration.
7. Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
8. For any clarification or enquiry, please proceed to the Company’s Helpdesk at the registration counter.
9. Poll Administrator’s Helpdesk will handle the revocation of a proxy’s appointment.
(C) Entitlement to Participate in the AGM
Only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2023 shall be entitled to attend the 19th
AGM or appoint proxy(ies)/corporate representative(s)/attorney to attend and to vote in his/her stead. A proxy must be
18 years and above and need not be a member of the Company.
(D) Proxy
1. A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint proxy/proxies, to attend and vote instead of him/her.
If you are unable to attend the meeting and wish to appoint a proxy to vote on your behalf, please submit your
proxy form in accordance with the notes and instructions printed therein.
2. You may submit your proxy form to the office of the Share Registrar of our Company, Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn. Bhd. or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670. We do not
acknowledge receipt of the form(s) of proxy.
3. The proxy appointment may also be lodged electronically via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://
investor.boardroomlimited.com or email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com which is free and available to
all shareholders. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment via BSIP.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
278
Administrative Details
Table 1 – Proxy Appointment via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”)
Step 1 –
Register Online
with Boardroom
Smart Investor
Portal
(For first time
registration
only)
Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not
required to register again. You may proceed to Step 2.
• Access the website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
• Click “Register” to sign up as a user.
• Please select the correct account type i.e. sign up as “Shareholder” or “Corporate
Holder”.
• Complete registration with all the required information. Upload and attach a softcopy
of your Identity Card (NRIC) (front and back) or Passport. Click “Register”.
• For Corporate Holder, kindly upload the authorisation letter as well, Click “Sign Up”.
• You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on
“Verify Email Address” from the email received to continue with the registration.
• Once your email address is verified, you will be re-direct to BSIP Online for verification
of mobile number.
• Click on “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile
number. You will need to enter the OTP Code and click “Enter” to complete the
process.
• Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be
pending for final verification.
• An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one
(1) business day. Subsequently, you can login at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
com with the email address and password filled up by you during the registration to
proceed.
Step 2 –
Appointment of
Proxy
• Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password
from Step 1 above.
• Click “Meeting Event(s)” and select from list of companies “GUAN CHONG BERHAD
19TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
• Click “Submit eProxy Form”.
• Select the company you would like to represent (if you represent more than one
company, for Corporate Shareholder).
• Enter your CDS Account Number and number of Securities held.
• Select your proxy — either the Chairman of the meeting or individual named proxy(ies)
and enter the required particulars of your proxy(ies).
• Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions and click “Next”.
• Enter the required particulars of your proxy(ies).
• Indicate your voting instructions — “FOR” or “AGAINST” or “ABSTAIN”. If you wish to
have your proxy(ies) to act upon his/her discretion, please indicate “DISCRETIONARY”.
• Click “Apply”. Download or print the eProxy Form as acknowledgement.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
279
Administrative Details
Note for Corporate Shareholders: if you are representing more than (1) company, kindly
click the home button and select “Edit Profile” in order to add Company
Corporate Shareholders (via email)
• Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member,
CDS Account Number accompanied with the Certificate of Appointment of Corporate
Representative or Proxy Form (as the case may be) to submit the request latest by
29 May 2023 at 11:00 a.m.
• Please provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s or Proxy’s Identity Card (front
and back) or Passport as well as his/her email address.
Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
Via BSIP
• Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password
from Step 1 above.
• Select “GUAN CHONG BERHAD 19TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the list of
Meeting Event(s) and click “Enter”.
• Click on “Submit eProxy Form”.
• Select the company you would like to represent (if you represent more than one
company).
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” from BSIP.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
• Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
• Review and confirm your proxy appointment and click “Submit”.
• Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.
Note: if you are representing more than (1) company, kindly click the home button and
select “Edit Profile” in order to add Company.
Via email
• To submit the request, Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
need to deposit the original hardcopy Form of Proxy to BSR and write in to BSR at
bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing softcopy of the Form of Proxy, the
name of shareholders and CDS Account Number.
• Please provide a copy of the proxy holder’s MyKad/Identification Card (front and
back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format as well as his/her email address.
4. If you wish to attend the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form. You will not be allowed to
attend the Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.
5. If you have submitted your proxy form prior to the meeting and subsequently decided to attend the meeting
yourself, please proceed to the Poll Administrator’s Helpdesk to revoke the appointment of your proxy.
(E) Covid-19 Prevention Measures
1. Attendees are highly encouraged to perform self-test for Covid-19 at home a day before the meeting.
2. A shareholder/proxy who has symptoms of being unwell or showing any symptoms of Covid-19 is advised not
to attend the AGM.
3. Wear a face mask throughout the meeting and clean your hands frequently with alcohol-based hand rub or soap
and water.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD OTHERS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
280
(F) Poll Voting
1. In accordance with Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, the voting at the 19th AGM will be conducted by poll. Poll Administrator and Independent Scrutineers will
be appointed to conduct the polling process and verify the results of the poll respectively.
2. The Poll Administrator will be available to brief and/or guide all 19th AGM Attendees before the commencement
of and during the voting process.
3. Upon completion of the voting session for the 19th AGM, the Scrutineers will verify and announce the poll results
followed by the Chairman’s declaration of whether the resolutions are duly passed.
(G) Annual Report 2022
1. The Company’s Annual Report 2022, Proxy Form, Corporate Governance Report and Administrative Guide are
available on the following websites:
		• https://www.bursamalaysia.com
		• https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports
2. If you wish to request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2022, please complete and send the Requisition Form
which can be downloaded from the Company’s website at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports
and email the same to the Share Registrar or login to Boardroom Smart Investor Online Portal at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com and select “Request Annual Report” under “Investor service” to submit your request.
3. Kindly think of the environment before you decide to print the Annual Report 2022. We would appreciate your
support by joining us to promote “Act Green” initiative to achieve environmentally responsible and paperless.
(H) Enquiry
If you have any queries prior to the meeting, please contact the following officers during office hours:
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
[199601006647 (378993-D)]
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya Selangor
Tel No. +603-7890 4700 / 4716 / 4705
Fax No. +603-7890 4670
Email Address bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
Mohamed.sophiee@boardroomlimited.com
Muhammad.taufiq@boardroomlimited.com
Contact Person: Encik Mohamed Sophiee Ahmad Nawawi
Encik Muhammad Taufiq Lokman
Administrative Details
The Company and its subsidiary companies, their officers and employees shall have no liability whatsoever to any
and all shareholders, their proxies, corporate representatives and/or any other party arising out of or in connection of
any infection or suspicion of any infection from Covid-19 and/or suffering any losses arising out of or in connection
with attendance at the Company’s 19th AGM and/or measures are undertaken by the Company in the Company’s sole
discretion in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
REGISTRATION NO.: 200401007722 (646226-K)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Proxy Form
No of Shares held
CDS Account No.
I/We NRIC/Passport/Registration No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
being a member/members of GUAN CHONG BERHAD, hereby appoint
NRIC/Passport No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
and NRIC/Passport No.
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
or failing him/her*, the CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our* proxy to vote for me/us* on my/our* behalf at the
Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company at Praline & Truffle, ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri, 1 Nusa Sentrum
Complex, Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC Industrial Park, 79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor on Wednesday, 31 May 2023 at 11.00 a.m. and
at any adjournment thereof in respect of my/our* shareholding in the manner indicated below:-
No. Ordinary Resolution For Against
1 Approval of Directors’ fees and allowances for the financial year ending
31 December 2023
2 Re-election of Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick as Director
3 Re-election of Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir as Director
4 Re-election of Ng Kim Hian as Director
5 Re-election of Tan Pui Suang as Director
6 Re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors
7 Renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
8 Renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue or trading nature
9 Renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to
ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital
[Please indicate with a “X” in the spaces provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In
the absence of specific instructions, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit]
For appointment of two proxies, percentage of shareholdings to be represented by the proxies:
Proxy No. of Shares Percentage
1
2
Total 100%
Signature of Shareholder or Common Seal
Dated this day of 2023
AFFIX
STAMP
The Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199601006647 (378993-D)
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2023 shall be regarded as members and be entitled to attend, participate,
speak and vote at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint any person as his/her proxy to attend and vote instead of the Member at the AGM. There shall be no restriction as to
the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at AGM shall have the same rights as the Member to speak at AGM.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each
Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a Member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act, it may appoint at least one (1) proxy in respect of each securities
account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company. In the event member appoint more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/
she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his/her attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer
is a corporation, either under the corporation’s common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. The Directors may but shall not
be bound to require evidence of the authority of any such attorney or officer. A proxy may but need not be a Member of the Company. The instrument
appointing a proxy shall be deemed to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
6. In the event the member(s) duly executes the Form of Proxy but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be deemed to have appointed the
Chairman of the Meeting as his/her/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the Form of Proxy, other than the particulars of the proxy, have been duly
completed by the member(s).
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power
of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrars of the Company situated at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen
13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670 or lodged electronically via Boardroom
Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding this
meeting or any adjournment thereof as Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad requires all
resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to vote by way of poll. For electronic lodgement please refer to the Administrative Guide of AGM.
Personal Data Privacy
By submitting the duly executed Proxy Form, the member and his/her proxy consent to the Company (and/or its agents/service providers) collecting, using
and disclosing the personal data therein in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 for the purpose of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
and any adjournment thereof.
PLO 273, Jalan Timah Dua,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia.
Tel : +6 07 254 8888
Email : info@gcbcocoa.com
www.gcbcocoa.com
200401007722 (646226-K)
