200401007722 (646226-K)
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
TO BE THE PREFERRED COCOA &
CHOCOLATE INGREDIENTS SUPPLIER
INSIDE THIS
OVERVIEW
5 About This Report
INTRODUCTION
9 Who We Are
10 Milestones On Our Journey
12 Where We Stand Today
12 Where We Operate
14 Products Introduction
17 Snapshot of FY2023
20 Corporate Information
22 Our Guiding Principles
24 Corporate Structure
25 Business & Market Dynamics
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
29 Chairman’s Statement
34 Directors’ Profile
38 Profile of Key Senior
Management
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Strategic Review
42 Market Overview
43 Outlook
44 Our Value Creation Story
46 Value Creation Business Model
48 Key Stakeholder Engagement
52 Material Matters
55 Key Risks & Mitigation Actions
61 Growth Strategies
Financial Review
64 Financial Review
Operational Performance Review
69 Operational Performance
Review
OVERVIEW
73 Sustainability Highlights in
FY2023
74 Reporting Practice
76 Message from CEO
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
80 Sustainability Governance
85 Stakeholder Engagement
87 Materiality Assessment
89 Material Matters and
Associated ESG Risks &
Opportunities
SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS
94 Sustainable Growth
97 Governing Business Practices
98 Sustainable Sourcing Practices
102 Climate Change Adaptation
105 Mindful Water Management
107 Responsible Consumption
110 Caring Beyond Cocoa
112 Diversity & Inclusion
118 Empowering Our People
120 Product Quality & Safety
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
123 TCFD-Aligned Disclosures
126 GRI Content Index
130 Performance Data Table
134 Material Matters (Appendix)
INTEGRATED
ANNUAL
REPORT
2023
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
2023
Report
258 List of Properties
264 Other Compliance Information
265 Analysis of Shareholdings
268 Notice of Annual General
Meeting
274 Administrative Details
• Form of Proxy
163 Directors’ Report
169 Statement by Directors
169 Statutory Declaration
170 Independent Auditors’ Report
174 Statements of Financial
Position
176 Statements of Profit or Loss
and Other Comprehensive
Income
177 Statements of Changes in
Equity
180 Statements of Cash Flows
184 Notes to the Financial
Statements
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
138 Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
151 Statement on Risk
Management and Internal
Control
157 Audit Committee Report
159 Risk Management Committee
Report
161 Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE &
COMPLIANCE
OTHER
INFORMATION
INTEGRATED
ANNUAL
REPORT
2023
Integrated Annual Report 2023 OVERVIEW 3
ABBREVIATION LIST
<IR> Framework – The International <IR> Framework January 2021
ACCA – Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
ACI – PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia
AGM – Annual General Meeting
Bursa Securities – Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Bursa Securities MMLR – Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing
Requirements
Bursa Securities CG Guide – Bursa Malaysia Corporate Governance
Guide (4th Edition)
Bursa Securities SR Guide – Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting
Guide (3rd Edition)
CAA – Cocoa Association of Asia
Carlyle – Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
CBC – Caring Beyond Cocoa
CCC – Le Conseil du Café-Cacao
CEO – Chief Executive Officer
CFI – Cocoa & Forests Initiative
CFO – Chief Financial Officer
CLMRS – Child Labour Monitoring and Remediation System
CMAA – Cocoa Merchants’ Association of America, Inc.
CO
²
– Carbon Dioxide
Cocoarich – Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
COO – Chief Operating Officer
CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility
CWG – Committee and Working Group
EBITDA – Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and
Amortisation
ECA – European Cocoa Association
EES – Economic, Environmental and Social
EPS – Earnings per share
ERM – Enterprise Risk Management
ESG – Environmental, Social and Governance
EU – European Union
EUDR – European Union Deforestation Regulation
FCC – Federation of Cocoa Commerce
FCCA – Fellow Chartered and Certified Accountant
FSSC – Food Safety Scheme Certification
FY – Financial Year
GAP – Good Agricultural Practices
GC&B Programme – Good Cocoa & Beyond Programme
GCB / the Group – Guan Chong Berhad
GCBA – GCB America, Inc.
GCB Cacao – GCB Cacao GmbH
GCBCCI – GCB Cocoa Côte d'Ivoire
GCBCE – GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.
GCBCI – PT GCB Cocoa Indonesia
GCBCM – GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
GCBCS – GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte. Ltd.
GCBCTI – GCB Cocoa Trading Côte d'Ivoire
GCBCUK – GCB Cocoa UK Limited
GCBF – GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.
GCBOHC – GCB Oversea Holdings Corporations
GCBUKP – GCB UK Property Limited
GCCM – Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.
GCT – Guan Chong Trading Sdn. Bhd.
GDP – Gross Domestic Product
GHG – Greenhouse Gas
GJ – Gigajoules
GMP – Good Manufacturing Practices
GRI Standards – Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting
Standards 2022
ha – Hectare
HACCP – Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points
HRA – Human Resource and Administration
IAR – Integrated Annual Report
ICCO – International Cocoa Organization
ICI – International Cocoa Initiative
IFS – International Food Standard
IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
ISO – International Organization for Standardization
IT – Information Technology
KPI – Key Performance Indicators
kWp – Kilowatt peak
LID – Living Income Differential
LULUCF – Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry
MCB – Malaysia Cocoa Board
MCCG – Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021
MeSTI – Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri
MFRS – Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
MIA – Malaysian Institute of Accountants
ML – Megalitre
MT – Metric Tonne
MWp – Megawatt peak
NGFS – Network for Greening the Financial System
NGOs – Non-Governmental Organisations
PBT – Profit Before Tax
QA – Quality Assurance
QC – Quality Control
R&D – Research & Development
RCP – Representative Concentration Pathway
ROA – Returns on Average Assets
ROE – Return on Average Equity
RTNP – Roger Tan & Partners
SEATRU – Sea Turtle Research Unit
Sedex – Supplier Ethical Data Exchange
SD – Sustainability Department
SCHOKINAG – Schokinag Holding GmbH
SMC – SMC Food21 (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
SOP – Standard Operating Procedures
SS / the Statement – Sustainability Statement
SSC – Sustainability Steering Committee
SSIG – Schokinag Schokolade–Industrie GmbH
SVG – Schokinag Verwaltungs GmbH
TCFD – Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
The Board / BOD – Board of Directors
The Code – Business Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct
UN SDGs – United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
UK – United Kingdom
US – United States of America
w.e.f. – with effect from
VSLA – Village Savings and Loan Association
WCF – World Cocoa Foundation
WWTP – Wastewater Treatment Plant
5 About This Report
OVERVIEW
Integrated Annual Report 2023 OVERVIEW 5
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Our IAR 2023 serves as the main report to comprehensively
inform our stakeholders about how we generate and
sustain value within GCB for the short, medium and long
term through our established business activities and the
outcomes we generate. This IAR includes:
View our Integrated Annual Report PDF online version at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Delivers a detailed yet succinct overview of our value
creation process, corporate governance, growth strategies,
operational, financial and non-financial performance as
well as progress made in our sustainability agenda, aimed
at demonstrating how these factors collectively contribute
to meaningful outcomes that support our vision: "To Be The
Preferred Cocoa & Chocolate Ingredients Supplier".
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023
Provides a comprehensive analysis of our performance
concerning ESG matters that are material to the Group’s
commitment to delivering sustainable value to our
stakeholders.
Additional information on our robust corporate governance framework, Business Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct, as well as
other organisational policies and procedures, can be found at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/corporate-governance.
Reporting Framework
Disclosures are guided by the:
• <IR> Framework
• Bursa Securities CG Guide
• Bursa Securities MMLR
• Malaysian Companies Act 2016
• MCCG
• MFRS
Reporting Framework
Disclosures are guided by the:
• Bursa Securities MMLR
• Bursa Securities SR Guide
• GRI Standards
• UN SDGs
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
OVERVIEW
6
Our Six
Capitals
Financial Capital
Our financial assets and pool of funds that
support our value creation efforts.
Manufactured Capital
Our factories, machinery and other physical
assets that are essential in executing our
business strategies.
Intellectual Capital
Our brand values, reputation, collective
knowledge, and systematic processes and
procedures.
Human Capital
Our skillful workforce, and their experience
and competencies which align with our
growth strategies.
Social & Relationship Capital
The relationships we foster with our
stakeholders to enhance individual and
collective well-being.
Natural Capital
The natural resources we utilise in our
processes to create value.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Reporting Scope & Boundary
This IAR encapsulates the performance, operations and
activities of the Group for the reporting period from
1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 and builds on our
previous publications, unless otherwise stated.
Forward-looking Statements
This IAR contains certain forward-looking statements
relatingtoourfuturedirections,plans,objectives,strategies,
key risks and mitigation actions, and performance.
These statements and forecasts involve uncertainty as
they concern future events and are not conclusive. Actual
implementation and results may vary due to various
risk factors and market uncertainties, which may be
unforeseeable.
The inclusion of forward-looking statements in this IAR
should not be considered as a representation or warranty
that the Group’s plans and objectives will be achieved.
Readers should not place undue reliance on such forward-
looking statements, and we do not undertake any obligation
to publicly update or revise them, whether due to new
developments, future events or otherwise.
Stakeholder Relationships & Materiality
In line with the <IR> Framework, we integrate the principles
of stakeholder relationships and the concept of materiality
to define and measure our performance across the material
matters that significantly influence our value creation and
preservation efforts.
Value Creation
Our Value Creation Business Model outlines the deployment
of capitals in alignment with our business strategies,
activities and governance to drive progress towards our
corporate vision and generate constructive outputs and
outcomes for our stakeholders.
To effectively detail what constitutes value to our Group and
how it is created and preserved, this IAR uses the globally
recognised "Six Capitals" based on the <IR> Framework.
Material Matters, page 52 &
Key Stakeholder Engagement, page 48
READ
MORE
Value Creation Business Model,
page 46
READ
MORE
Value Creation Business Model, page 46
READ
MORE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 OVERVIEW 7
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Integrated Reporting Acknowledgement Statement
The Board acknowledges its responsibility of ensuring the
integrity of this IAR, which, in their opinion, addresses all
the issues that are material to the Group’s ability to create
value and provides a fair presentation of its financial and
non-financial performances.
The Board, supported by a dedicated reporting team, has
diligently prepared and presented this IAR with reference
to the <IR> Framework.
This IAR was approved by the Board on 15 April 2024.
Strategic
Risks primarily influenced
by events that are external
to the Group but which
may significantly affect
our strategic decisions or
activities.
Financial
Risks that may directly
impact the Group’s
financial well-being.
Compliance
Non-compliance with
laws and regulations in
the countries where the
Group operates that may
lead to financial penalties,
reputational damage or
even the revocation of
business licences.
Operational
Unfortunate events that
have the potential to
disrupt our day-to-day
operations and processes.
Key Risks & Mitigation Actions, page 55
READ
MORE
Risk Categories
The risks presented in this IAR are categorised into four
segments based on their potential impact areas:
Our Key
Stakeholders
Our Growth
Strategies
Customers Shareholders
& Investors
Suppliers &
Contractors
Employees Governments,
Regulators &
NGOs
Local
Communities
Media
Growth &
Expansion
Innovation Sustainability
Key Stakeholder
Engagement, page 48 &
Stakeholder Engagement,
page 85
READ
MORE
Growth Strategies, page 61
READ
MORE
9 Who We Are
10 Milestones On Our Journey
12 Where We Stand Today
12 Where We Operate
14 Products Introduction
17 Snapshot of FY2023
20 Corporate Information
22 Our Guiding Principles
24 Corporate Structure
25 Business & Market Dynamics
INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 9
Who
WE ARE
We hold the distinction of
being Asia’s largest and
the world’s 4th largest
manufacturer of cocoa-
derived food ingredients.
INTRODUCTION
GCB was established in Malaysia as a public
limited company on 22nd March 2004 and
subsequently listed on the Main Market of
Bursa Malaysia on 8th April 2005.
Our core businesses revolve around the manufacturing of
cocoa-derived food ingredients and a complete range of
chocolates and couvertures. Among our cocoa products are
cocoa mass, cocoa butter, cocoa cake and cocoa powder,
while our industrial chocolate products come in solid
or liquid dark, milk or white varieties. Our products are
currently marketed under four distinct trademarked brands,
including our inaugural brand FAVORICH, coined from an
amalgamation of “High in Flavour” together with “Rich in
Colour”, which serves the global market. Additionally, we
have Carlyle Cocoa, a cocoa powder brand primarily serving
the US market; SCHOKINAG, a distinguished European
industrial chocolate brand; and FAVORICH CHOCOLATE,
another brand catering to the global market but with a
current emphasis on the UK and European markets.
At present, we hold the distinction of being Asia's largest
and the world's 4th largest manufacturer of cocoa-derived
food ingredients. Our business model is strategically
geared towards strengthening our presence within cocoa
origin countries and key chocolate-consuming regions.
To this end, our production facility in Côte d'Ivoire - the
world’s largest cocoa bean origin country - has enabled
us to establish "close to source" operations. Meanwhile,
our chocolate production facilities in the UK and Germany
serve to develop stronger connections with customers in
key chocolate-consuming European countries.
To drive continuous growth and advancement, our Group
has invested in expansion and automation projects to
enhance our operations in Germany and Malaysia. Our
initiatives include the addition of new machinery at our
Malaysian production facilities, which has led to an increase
in efficiency and decreased production costs, while our
debottlenecking project at the SSIG production facility has
bolstered our supply chain and service provision, enabling
us to expand our product variants to include a range of
gourmet products.
Our History
Our journey at GCB has been guided by a clear vision set
forth by our leaders, coupled with a well-defined growth
plan that has propelled us from humble beginnings as a
small cocoa trader in the 1980s to our current position
as a leading multinational player in the global cocoa and
chocolate industry.
Originating as a cocoa bean processing facility in Parit Jawa,
Muar, Johor, in 1985, our evolution took a transformative
turn when we established a state-of-the-art production
facility at the Pasir Gudang Industrial Area, increasing
our processing capacity to 6,000 MT in 1991. Over the
years, our unwavering dedication to continuous capacity
enhancement and fostering a culture of innovation has
propelled us to the forefront of the industry, positioning our
Group as the foremost cocoa processor in Asia. Today, we
boast a total annual bean grinding capacity of 330,000 MT
and have firmly established the reputation of our products
across both local and international markets.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
10
Journey
MILESTONES ON OUR
• Establishment and
trademarking of the
FAVORICH brand.
• Establishment of our Pasir
Gudang factory, expanding
our processing capacity.
• Incorporation of GCCM.
1991
1985 1995
• IncreaseoftheGroup’s
annual capacity to
60,000 MT.
2007
• Expansion of GCB with
the establishment of
ACI in Indonesia and
GCBCS in Singapore.
2010
• Commencement of
a wide-ranging joint
venture between
the Group and SMC,
a prominent sugar,
milk and cocoa
blender.
2015
• Acquisition of
Koko Budi Sdn.
Bhd., a cocoa
processing plant
and its subsequent
renaming to
GCBCM.
2017
• Increase of GCBCM’s annual capacity to 50,000 MT,
solidifying the Group’s position as the top cocoa grinder in
Asia and among the world’s top four by production volume.
• Inception of GCBCCI in Côte d’Ivoire, marking GCB’s
expansion beyond Asia for the first time and enabling us
to procure cocoa beans directly from the largest cocoa-
producing country in the world.
2018
• Establishment of GCBCUK as an
industrial chocolate facility in the UK.
• Acquisition of SCHOKINAG, a German
industrial chocolate manufacturer.
2020
INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 11
• Incorporation of
GCB as a publicly
listed company.
2005
• Acquisition of Carlyle,
a value-added cocoa
cake grinding facility
in Delaware, US, by
GCB.
2006
• Establishment of GCBCE and
GCBCTI for increased cost-
efficiency in cocoa-derived
food ingredient supply from
Côte d’Ivoire directly to our
operations in Germany and the
UK.
2021
• Establishment of GCBUKP as a
property management company
in the UK.
• Commissioning of GCBCCI’s
factory in San Pedro,
Côte d’Ivoire, contributing
60,000 MT to the Group's total
annual bean grinding capacity.
• Establishment and trademarking
of the FAVORICH CHOCOLATE
brand.
• Commissioning of an
industrial chocolate facility at
GCBCUK’s factory in Suffolk,
UK, contributing an additional
16,000 MT of industrial
chocolate capacity to the Group.
2022 2023
INTRODUCTION
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
12
WHERE WE
Operate
INTRODUCTION
The incorporation of GCB was the
driving force behind our rise from a
humble Malaysian manufacturer to
the top cocoa grinder in Asia and the
world's 4th largest producer of cocoa-
derived food ingredients. Recognising
the untapped potential, we set out to
establish our foothold as a formidable
multinational contender in the global
cocoa and chocolate industry.
Beginning with collaborations with
small trading groups in the 1980s,
we gradually engaged multinational
chocolate manufacturers and
broadened our sales presence to
over 80 countries. As the worldwide
demand for GCB products surged, we
gained the impetus to invest in product
innovation, gradually diversifying our
range from basic commodity items to
cover a wide array of cocoa-derived
food ingredients, industrial chocolate
and even gourmet offerings.
Looking ahead, we will continue to
invest in cutting-edge technologies,
modern machinery, automation
enhancements and a variety
of sustainability initiatives to
maintain and enhance our global
competitiveness. Furthermore, we are
committed to nurturing our human
capital by fostering the well-being
of our employees within their work
environment, alongside providing
steadfast support for their personal
and professional advancement.
1 Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.
(Pasir Gudang, Malaysia)
• Annual Bean Grinding Capacity: 87,000 MT
2 GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
(Pasir Gudang, Malaysia)
• Annual Bean Grinding Capacity: 63,000 MT
3 PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia
(Batam, Indonesia)
• Annual Bean Grinding Capacity: 120,000 MT
4 GCB Cocoa Côte d’Ivoire
(San Pedro, Côte d’Ivoire)
• Annual Bean Grinding Capacity: 60,000 MT
5 Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
(Delaware, US)
• Annual Value-Added Capacity: 9,000 MT (Cocoa cake grinding)
6 Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
(Swedesboro, US)
• Annual Value-Added Capacity:
- 30,000 MT (Cocoa mass melting)
- 60,000 MT (Cocoa butter melting & deodorising)
7 SCHOKINAG Schokolade-Industrie GmbH
(Mannheim, Germany)
• Annual Industrial Chocolate Capacity: 100,000 MT
8 GCB Cocoa UK Limited
(Suffolk, UK)
• Annual Industrial Chocolate Capacity: 16,000 MT
TOTAL ANNUAL
BEAN GRINDING
CAPACITY
330,000 MT
TOTAL ANNUAL
VALUE-ADDED
CAPACITY
99,000 MT
TOTAL ANNUAL
INDUSTRIAL
CHOCOLATE CAPACITY
116,000 MT
WHERE WE STAND
T
oday
MANUFACTURING PLANTS:
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 13
Our cocoa processing and chocolate production facilities span four continents, collectively amassing an annual capacity of
330,000 MT for bean grinding, 99,000 MT for value-added processes and 116,000 MT for industrial chocolate production.
INTRODUCTION
Latest update as of 15 April 2024
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
TRADING OFFICES:
a GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte. Ltd.
b PT GCB Cocoa Indonesia
c GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.
d GCB Cocoa Trading Côte d'Ivoire
c d
a b
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
14
PRODUCTS INTRODUCTION
OUR DIVERSE
Product Range
COCOA MASS COCOA BUTTER
Cocoa mass is produced from a meticulous
process of roasting and grinding cocoa nibs to
create a smooth, fluid state. Also known as cocoa
paste or cocoa liquor, cocoa mass plays a vital
role in crafting different chocolates, especially
dark chocolate.
Pressing cocoa mass creates cocoa butter, which
serves as a crucial intermediary ingredient
across various sectors, including chocolate
production, personal care products, ointments
and pharmaceutical products.
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 15
PRODUCTS INTRODUCTION
At the heart of our offerings is a comprehensive selection of cocoa-derived ingredients and
chocolates tailored to meet the diverse needs of the cocoa industry. Our products are utilised
across a wide spectrum, with applications that span the food production industry as well as
popular consumer categories.
COCOA CAKE COCOA POWDER
Cocoa cake is derived from the cocoa mass
pressing process, consisting of solid cocoa nib
fragments that are broken down into smaller
parts. Primarily used in industrial grinding, cocoa
cake is instrumental in producing finely ground
cocoa powder.
Cocoa powder stems from grinding cocoa cake
and is essential for the creation of chocolate
confectioneries and pastes used in the concoction
of desserts.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
16
PRODUCTS INTRODUCTION
LIQUID CHOCOLATE
CHOCOLATE CHIPS & CHUNKS
CHOCOLATE BEVERAGES
Carefully combining cocoa ingredients, we
achieve a product rich in flavonoids and
antioxidants. Our rigorous refinement of this
complex process has enabled us to achieve
remarkable consistency in producing liquid
chocolate of superior quality.
Be it for baking cakes, biscuits or dessert
decorations, our precisely crafted chocolate chips
and chunks enable swift melting and ensure
impeccable tempering, thereby enhancing the
chocolate melting process and elevating baking
experiences.
Through a careful blend of assorted cocoa
components with sugar, milk powder and other
ingredients, we produce a variety of powdered
chocolate beverages that may be easily mixed
with water to savour the rich cocoa flavours.
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 17
SNAPSHOT OF FY2023
OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
REVENUE
(RM'billion)
5.32
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(RM'million)
139.06
NET PROFIT
(RM'million)
100.93
Financial Review, page 64 &
Financial Statements, page 162
READ
MORE
EARNINGS PER SHARE
(sen)
8.59
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(RM'billion)
1.75
NET GEARING RATIO
(times)
1.21
SHARE PRICE1
(RM)
1.83
MARKET CAPITAL2
(RM'billion)
2.15
1 Share price on 29 December 2023
2 Market capital is calculated based on the share price on
29 December 2023
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
18
SNAPSHOT OF FY2023
OUR NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
In FY2023, we increased our Group’s annual cocoa grinding capacity to a total of 330,000 MT across our worldwide
production facilities. We also increased our annual industrial chocolate capacity by 21,000 MT, raising our total
capacity to 116,000 MT across our chocolate production operations.
8
Production Facilities
4
Cocoa Trading Offices
ASIA'S LARGEST and
WORLD'S 4TH LARGEST
manufacturer of cocoa-derived
food ingredients
Expansion to UK & Côte d'Ivoire
The Group celebrated the commissioning of its newest processing plant, GCBCCI
in Côte d'Ivoire, and the opening of GCBCUK in the UK. These developments
signify a significant step towards enhancing the traceability of our products and
achieving our goal of delivering 100% traceable and sustainable cocoa within
our direct sourcing network by 2030.
Moreover, they pave the way for increased access to Europe, which boasts one
of the world's largest chocolate consumer markets. The establishment of these
new facilities also underscores GCB's commitment to improving our energy mix,
most notably through our incorporation of solar panels and use of cocoa shells
for biomass energy generation from the very commencement of production.
Caring Beyond Cocoa
Throughout FY2023, GCB executed an array of outreach initiatives to give back
to local communities and contribute to a healthier planet, such as collaborating
with the Chagar Hutang Turtle Sanctuary for conservation efforts and sponsoring
B40 participants in the Older Faster Stronger Run 2023. Additionally, as part
of our philanthropy efforts, we supported the refurbishment of Sekolah Jenis
Kebangsaan Tamil Ladang Lambak in Johor, Malaysia, to provide students and
teacherswithamoreconducivestudyingandteachingenvironment.Theseefforts
reflect our holistic approach to sustainability, encompassing environmental and
community-focused initiatives.
By continuing to prioritise sustainability across our operations, from sourcing practices to community engagement, we
remain steadfast in our commitment to drive positive change within the cocoa industry.
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 19
SNAPSHOT OF FY2023
Implementation of Quality & Safety Standards and Certifications
In addition, we continued to successfully uphold a range of quality and safety standards and certifications throughout our
supply chain, facilitating the production of premium cocoa products.
Fairtrade International
Standards
IFS
Kosher
Halal
FSSC 22000
MeSTI
Rainforest
Alliance
HACCP
ISO 22000:
Food Safety and
Management System
ISO 50001:
Energy Management
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
20
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Ng Kim Hian
(Chairman/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Tan Pui Suang
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Tan Ah Lai
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
5 April 2023)
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Hia Cheng
(Chairman/Executive Director)
Ng Kim Hian
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Tan Pui Suang
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on
1 December 2023)
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
1 December 2023)
Tan Ah Lai
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
5 April 2023)
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Tan Pui Suang
(Chairman/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Chairman
on 1 December 2023)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Ng Kim Hian
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Chairman/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Chairman
w.e.f. 1 December 2023)
Tan Ah Lai
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
5 April 2023)
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Chairman/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Ng Kim Hian
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Tan Pui Suang
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed as Committee Member on
1 December 2023)
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Member/Independent Non-Executive
Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
1 December 2023)
Tan Ah Lai
(Member/Independent
Non-Executive Director)
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
5 April 2023)
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
(Executive Director/COO)
Ang Nyee Nyee
(Independent Non-Executive
Chairman)
Hia Cheng
(Executive Director/CFO)
Ng Kim Hian
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Tay Hoe Lian
(Managing Director/CEO)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Tan Pui Suang
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Tan Ah Lai
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
(Resigned w.e.f. 5 April 2023)
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 21
SECRETARIES
Ng Mei Wan (MIA 28862)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.:
201908000801)
Tan Hui Khim (LS 0009936)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.:
201908000859)
REGISTERED OFFICE
No. 7, (1st Floor) Jalan Pesta 1/1
Taman Tun Dr Ismail 1, Jalan Bakri
84000 Muar
Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia
Tel : 06-954 1705
Fax : 06-954 1707
Email : lcsa-muar@lcsa.com.my
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang
81700 Pasir Gudang
Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia
Tel : 07-254 8888
Fax : 07-251 1711
Website: www.gcbcocoa.com
SHARE REGISTRAR
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199601006647
(378993-D)
11th Floor Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : 03-7890 4700
Fax : 03-7890 4670
Email : bsr.helpdesk@
boardroomlimited.com
AUDITORS
BDO PLT
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA)
& AF 0206
Chartered Accountants
Suite 18-04, Level 18, Menara Zurich
15, Jalan Dato’ Abdullah Tahir
80300 Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Ambank Islamic Berhad
Bangkok Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch
HL Bank Singapore
Hong Leong Islamic Bank Berhad
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited, Singapore Branch
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad
Maybank Islamic Berhad
Maybank Singapore Limited
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited
RHB Islamic Bank Berhad
Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia
Berhad
Standard Chartered Bank Côte
d’Ivoire SA
United Overseas Bank Limited
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Berhad
SOLICITORS
Chee Siah Le Kee & Partners
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name : GCB
Stock Code : 5102
DATE OF LISTING
8 April 2005
CORPORATE INFORMATION
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
22
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES
To Be The Preferred Cocoa &
Chocolate Ingredients Supplier.
Vision
OUR
Grit
Ambition
Sincerity
Values
OUR
We at GCB Cocoa are committed
to delivering quality cocoa and
chocolates while offering utmost
flexibility and attention. Through
forming strong alliances with local
partners, we are dedicated to serving
our customers worldwide and
growing together with them in long-
term partnerships.
Mission
OUR
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 23
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Technical Support & Innovation
Crafting tailor-made recipes and
developing new products via our
experienced R&D team.
Competitive Prices
Offering fair market prices by sourcing
competitively as one of the biggest
players in the market.
Product Quality & Safety
Ensuring excellent throughput at our
production facilities and compliance
with all safety standards.
Full Product Range
Providing an extensive product range
from cocoa mass, butter, cake and
powder to liquid and solid chocolates
in various shapes, sizes and packaging
options.
Ethical Operations
Upholding strict operational standards
and treating people with dignity and
respect. Our suppliers are expected and
required to demonstrate environmental
and social awareness in their practices.
Flexibility & Excellence in Customer
Service
Fulfilling customer orders as our top
priority in seeking to establish long-
term, meaningful relationships.
Promises
OUR
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
24
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
listed on Main Market of Bursa Securities
Guan Chong
Cocoa
Manufacturer
Sdn. Bhd.
("GCCM")
Guan Chong
Trading
Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCT”)
GCB Cocoa
Malaysia
Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCBCM”)
GCB Foods
Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCBF”)
GCB America,
Inc.
(“GCBA”)
Carlyle Cocoa
Co., LLC
(“Carlyle”)
GCB Cocoa Côte
d’Ivoire
(“GCBCCI”)
PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia
(“ACI”)
Schokinag
Holding
GmbH
(“SCHOKINAG”)
PT GCB Cocoa
Indonesia
(“GCBCI”)
GCB Cocoa
Europe B.V.
(“GCBCE”)
GCB Cocoa
Singapore
Pte. Ltd.
(“GCBCS”)
GCB Cocoa UK
Limited
(“GCBCUK”)
GCB UK Property
Limited
(“GCBUKP”)
GCB Cacao
GmbH
(“GCB Cacao”)
GCB Cocoa
Trading
Côte d’Ivoire
(“GCBCTI”)
GCB Oversea
Holdings
Corporations
(“GCBOHC”)
Cocoarich
Sdn. Bhd.
(“Cocoarich”)
SMC Food21
(Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd.
(“SMC”)
100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100%
100%
10%
100%
10%
100%
26.14% 73.86%
100%
100% 100%
100%
Schokinag
Schokolade-
Industrie GmbH
(“SSIG”)
100%
Schokinag
Verwaltungs
GmbH (“SVG”)
100%
100% 100% 20%
90% 90%
("GCB" or "the Group")
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 25
BUSINESS & MARKET DYNAMICS
CORPORATE PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
We are a globally recognised manufacturer specialising
in a diverse range of cocoa-derived food ingredients and
chocolate products. Our product portfolio encompasses
cocoa mass, cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake,
in addition to an extensive selection of solid and liquid
chocolates and couvertures in dark, milk and white variants.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT
Elevated Cocoa Prices
In 2023, cocoa market prices surged to a 46-year high in
the New York and London markets. This was primarily due
to lower-than-anticipated production in cocoa-producing
origin countries, with unfavourable weather conditions and
the ongoing swollen shoot disease affecting cocoa crops
in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana in West Africa. With these two
countries collectively accounting for a significant portion of
the world's cocoa production, this resulted in a tightening of
global cocoa supplies. The upcoming crop year of 2023/24
in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, specifically, is predicted to
witness a more than 20% reduction in production compared
to previous years, exacerbating the cost challenges faced
by cocoa grinders.
In 2024, cocoa prices continued to achieve historical
highs, reaching USD11,2001 and GBP9,2001 per MT in the
New York and London futures markets, respectively. This
intensifies pricing pressures for cocoa processors.
Global Inflationary Pressures
Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the cocoa
industry has grappled with substantial increases in costs
for packaging materials, construction materials, spare
parts and chemicals. These cost escalations, along with a
sharp uptick in labour expenses, have elevated operational
costs for our Group.
Stabilised Energy Costs
Gas and electricity prices experienced significant increases
in FY2022, but they have since stabilised in FY2023.
Many European companies have mitigated the impact of
rising energy costs by entering into contracts with energy
providers to lock in prices and shifting their focus towards
renewable energy sources.
Rising Interest Rates
Many central banks' response to combat inflation has been
to raise interest rates, which, in turn, dampens overall
demand and eases upward price pressures. However,
higher interest rates may hinder the global economic
recovery in the face of a challenging economic outlook, with
increased household debt-servicing expenses potentially
affecting discretionary consumer spending.
Regulatory Landscape
The cocoa industry is increasingly subject to a growing body
of regulations aimed at promoting cocoa sustainability.
These regulations encompass areas such as deforestation
and human rights, necessitating that companies importing
specific commodities, including cocoa, engage in
environmental and social due diligence.
Geopolitical Tension
The Red Sea crisis is expected to bring certain impacts
on the ongoing cocoa trade due to shipping companies'
decisions to either halt or reroute their shipment of traded
goods. Shipping costs are also expected to experience a
surge due to longer and more expensive shipping times,
subsequently bearing higher insurance risk premiums. With
cocoa prices currently elevated, additional costs resulting
from high freight rates may increase pricing pressure.
Challenges on the Horizon
In an environment marked by persistent inflation and
surging interest rates, there are concerns of a potential
global recession. However, historical data shows that
chocolate consumption tends to remain resilient during
economic downturns.
Despite this, we are mindful of the risks associated with
our ambitious expansion plans. While expanding into new
regions offers growth opportunities and reduced supply
chain risks, we acknowledge the need for a coordinated and
collective effort across the Group to address variations in
market conditions, business practices, societal norms and
cultural nuances across different regions.
Note:
1 Cocoa bean historical high price as of 15 April 2024.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
INTRODUCTION
26
COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE
Côte d'Ivoire Expansion
Our new cocoa processing facility in Côte d'Ivoire –
commissioned in September 2022 and inaugurated in
July 2023 by the country's vice president – became fully
operational in November 2022 and undertook its maiden
export shipment in February 2023, marking a significant
milestone for our business. The new facility boasts the
potential to reach a capacity of 240,000 MT, and, since its
commissioning, we have continued to explore opportunities
to enhance capacity utilisation at the site, aiming to
maximise its full potential.
Equipped with state-of-the-art machinery and the latest
technology, the factory allows us to access premium cocoa
beans directly from source, thereby shortening the beans-
to-ingredients cycle. In addition, this strategic expansion of
our grinding operations in proximity to the source of beans
in Côte d'Ivoire serves to reduce risks in our supply chain,
providing us with enhanced control over production and
shipping schedules, and enabling us to purchase beans at a
lower price due to decreased logistical costs and the bypass
of intermediaries. Moreover, supplying cocoa-derived food
ingredients directly to our operations in Germany and the
UK is poised to further improve cost efficiencies, offering
us a competitive edge in these crucial markets and beyond.
Moving forward, we are actively exploring opportunities to
further expand our Côte d'Ivoire facility's cocoa processing
capacity, empowering us to further penetrate and capture
strategic consumer markets.
Managing Rising Energy Costs
To manage and mitigate the potential of rising energy
costs, we have locked in approximately 20% of forward
contracts with energy suppliers in the UK and Germany,
securing prices until March 2023. Additionally, we proactively
monitor our energy usage with the aim of achieving greater
efficiency and lowering operational costs. Moreover, our
solar panel projects at our production facilities in Malaysia,
the UK and Côte d'Ivoire enable us to generate a renewable
source of energy for self-consumption while simultaneously
reducing negative impacts on the environment. Lastly, we
incorporate potential price hikes into our cost considerations
to ensure a seamless pass-through along the value chain.
MARKET POSITIONING
We believe that resilience and adaptability to react to
changing factors within the business environment are
extremely crucial. Given the volatility and fluidity of
the market, there is a need to react quickly and operate
efficiently within a dynamic market to maintain profitability
and business stability.
To do this effectively, we are well-prepared to leverage our
strengths and synergies to navigate future challenges and
further develop our market presence.
Leveraging our Strategic Market Presence
We have unlocked the element of strategic positioning
with our presence in Côte d'Ivoire – the world’s largest
cocoa bean supplying country – as well as our presence in
the European market, home to most of the key chocolate-
consuming countries.
The establishment of our new cocoa processing plant in
Côte d'Ivoire in November 2022 has not only facilitated
streamlined production and distribution but has also
significantly bolstered the competitive synergy of the Group,
emphasising the strategic advantages and market presence
gained by tapping into this key cocoa-producing region.
BUSINESS & MARKET DYNAMICS
INTRODUCTION
Integrated Annual Report 2023 27
Providing Innovative, High-Quality Products & Services
On an operational scale, GCB strongly adheres to the
principle of providing high-quality products, which also
extends to the provision of technical support and after-
sales service for customers, consistent product innovation
derived through investment in R&D, and the application
of modern technologies to meet the evolving quality and
sustainability demands of the industry.
By consistently investing in R&D, applying modern
technologies and staying attuned to industry trends, GCB
can position itself as a leader in providing high-quality and
innovative cocoa-derived food ingredients and chocolate
products that meet the evolving demands of consumers
and the industry as a whole.
Unlocking Global Supply Chain Synergies
Another key benefit of our robust market presence is our
ability to synergise global operations. We can leverage
our international presence across the supply chain to
gain valuable competitive advantages, such as building
production facilities in strategic locations or diversifying
our product range to meet market trends.
BUSINESS & MARKET DYNAMICS
For instance, we have diversified to produce high-quality
cocoa powder with a customised range of colour and
fat content to successfully cater to the varying needs
of our customers. With the acquisition of SCHOKINAG,
meanwhile, we have the opportunity to form a complete
supply chain as we internally procure the required cocoa-
derived food ingredients for the production of industrial
chocolate and gourmet products.
Accessing a Diverse, Global Customer Base
With a well-established global presence, our considerable
market share affords us significant access to a diverse range
of customers and buyers. Leveraging the robust support
from SCHOKINAG and GCBCUK, our Group is poised to
directly expand our customer base in strategic markets.
This amplifies our ability to leverage our positive reputation
and cultivate robust relationships with a broad spectrum
of customers, from trading companies to users of cocoa-
derived food ingredients, spanning small independent
customers to multinational manufacturers.
From these strong connections, we will leverage our
reliable brand reputation to transform them into strategic
partnerships. These partnerships hold significant sway
in ensuring the sustainability of our operations. They
empower us to navigate evolving market dynamics and
sustain our competitive advantage within an increasingly
complex business environment.
29 Chairman’s Statement
34 Directors’ Profile
38 Profile of Key Senior Management
LEADERSHIP
STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 29
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DEAR
ESTEEMED
SHAREHOLDERS,
Against the backdrop of a challenging global chocolate
industry landscape, 2023 brought forth significant
hurdles. Weather disruptions triggered by El Niño in
key cocoa-producing regions such as Ghana and Côte
d'Ivoire led to adverse effects on supply outputs and
yields. Cocoa bean prices also surged to unprecedented
peaks during the year, surpassing USD4,200 and GBP
3,500 per MT in the New York and London futures
markets, respectively. These prices have continued to
escalate, reaching historical highs in 2024.
Furthermore, global consumer sentiment remained
subdued, influenced by a combination of factors
including inflationary pressures and a high interest
rate environment. Geopolitical tensions in Eastern
European and Middle Eastern regions also contributed
to volatile energy prices and supply chain disruptions,
impacting costs and logistical efficiencies.
Despite these headwinds, we demonstrated resilience
to maintain profitability amidst a challenging
environment. Our continued success was supported
by the establishment of our new grinding operations
in Côte d'Ivoire and the successful turnaround of our
century-old industrial chocolate subsidiary, SSIG in
Germany, which rebounded following the energy crisis
in Europe.
On behalf of the BOD, it is my great pleasure to
present to you the Group's financial performance and
operational highlights for FY2023.
Business & Market Dynamics, page 25
READ
MORE
GLOBAL GRINDING ACTIVITIES STRAINED BY
HIGHER COCOA BEAN PRICES
In 2023, cocoa grinders encountered significant working capital
challenges due to the heightened prices of cocoa beans.
Moreover, consumer sentiment showed inconsistent recovery
across various regions worldwide, affecting both developed
and developing economies. As a result, global cocoa grinding
volume is forecasted to decline by 4.0% to 4.8 million MT from
5.0 million MT in the previous year, largely due to the rising
costs of raw materials.
Global Cocoa Grinding Volume 2023/24 vs 2022/23
Source: ICCO Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics (Volume L
No.1 Cocoa Year 2023/24)
As reported by the ICCO, the recent escalation in freight rates
due to tensions in the Red Sea region is poised to further
impact international trade. Given that cocoa prices are already
at an all-time high, the prospect of absorbing additional costs
arising from elevated freight rates may be daunting for cocoa
users and could potentially affect demand.
Crop year 2022/23 estimates ('000 MT)
Total: 5,020.0
1,177.7
937.3
1,121.4
1,783.6
Africa
Americas
Europe
Asia and
Oceania
Crop year 2023/24 forecasts ('000 MT)
Total: 4,779.4
1,093.7
913.0
1,063.0
1,709.7
Africa
Americas
Europe
Asia and
Oceania
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
30 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
INCREASED REVENUE IN TANDEM WITH
ESCALATING COCOA BEAN PRICES
In FY2023, GCB achieved a significant milestone with a
record-high revenue of RM5.3 billion, marking a notable
increase of 20.4% from RM4.4 billion in FY2022. This
growth was primarily attributed to the surge in selling
prices of our cocoa ingredients and industrial chocolates,
driven by escalating cocoa bean prices.
The revenue boost was further supported by the expanded
annual capacity of both our cocoa bean grinding and
industrial chocolate operations, now standing at 330,000
MT and 100,000 MT, respectively, compared to 277,000 MT
and 90,000 MT in the preceding year.
However, our net profit declined by 31.5% to RM100.9 million
compared to RM147.4 million in FY2022, primarily due to
lower grinding margins, increased finance costs resulting
from higher borrowings, and elevated tax expenses.
It is noteworthy that our industrial chocolate segment also
contributed to the Group's net profit in FY2023. Our German
subsidiary recovered well from the impact of volatile energy
prices faced during 2022 due to tensions between Russia
and Ukraine. The revenue from this segment experienced
a 23.9% increase, from RM1.0 billion in FY2022 to RM1.3
billion in FY2023. At the same time, this segment recorded
a substantial rise in operating profit, which expanded by
408.9%, from RM15.4 million in FY2022 to RM78.4 million
in FY2023.
Financial Review, page 64
READ
MORE
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
ENSURING A SOUND FINANCIAL POSITION &
REWARDING SHAREHOLDERS DESPITE HEADWINDS
Despite ongoing challenges, we remain dedicated to
fortifying our balance sheet to uphold the financial
stability needed to sustain operations across our diverse
sites in Asia, West Africa, Europe and the US. Moreover,
we are committed to distributing dividends to our valued
shareholders as a tribute to their trust in our long-term
expansion plans.
As of 31 December 2023, our total assets surged by 50.3%
to RM5.5 billion from RM3.7 billion, primarily driven by
higher inventories that reflect elevated cocoa bean prices,
as well as increased trade and other receivables, alongside
higher asset values for our Côte d'Ivoire, UK and Germany
facilities.
Meanwhile, our total liabilities have expanded by 85.4%,
from RM2.0 billion to RM3.7 billion, due to increased loans
and borrowings to support working capital requirements
amidst rising cocoa bean costs, as well as increased
derivative financial liabilities and trade and other payables.
Our total equity witnessed a 7.0% increase from RM1.6
billion to RM1.8 billion, attributable to higher foreign
currency translation reserves and retained profits. However,
our net gearing ratio rose to 1.21 times from 0.68 times
at the end of FY2022, reflecting the higher borrowings
necessitated during the past twelve months.
We remain committed to vigilant monitoring of our
financial leverage, ensuring an optimal balance between
pursuing growth opportunities and upholding our
steadfast commitment to maintaining consistent dividend
payouts. Leveraging our status as the world's 4th largest
cocoa ingredient producer, we are favourably positioned to
capitalise on the sustained long-term demand for chocolate.
The Group extends heartfelt gratitude for the unwavering
support received from our esteemed shareholders. As
a symbol of our appreciation, we have announced the
declaration of a dividend of 2.0 sen per share, which was
disbursed on 19 January 2024. The total dividend pay-out
in respect of FY2023 stands at RM23.5 million, representing
a 23.3% pay-out ratio of the Group's FY2023 net profit
attributable to shareholders.
Financial Statements, page 162
READ
MORE
Financial Review, page 64
READ
MORE
0.67
0.82
0.92
0.68
1.21
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23
Net Gearing
15.9% 16.2%
27.2% 26.0% 23.3%
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23
34.6 36.1 42.1 38.3
23.5
Payout Ratio
Dividend Payout (RM'million)
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 31
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Outlook, page 43
READ
MORE
STRENGTHENING COCOA GRINDING & INDUSTRIAL
CHOCOLATE PRODUCTION OPERATIONS
Since 2019, GCB has diversified its global presence by
entering new markets, highlighted by our expansion into
Côte d'Ivoire to secure direct access to high-quality cocoa
beans, as well as our expansion into Germany and the UK
to tap into the world's largest chocolate markets in Europe.
GCB currently boasts an annual grinding capacity of
330,000 MT across our facilities in Malaysia, Indonesia
and Côte d'Ivoire. Furthermore, we have an annual
industrial chocolate production capacity of 116,000 MT
from our operations in Germany and the UK, with our UK
facility commencing trial operations for the production of
16,000 MT of industrial chocolate in June 2023.
Although FY2023 was a challenging year, the Group made
investments of RM194.1 million to enhance our operations
in Côte d'Ivoire, the UK, Germany and Malaysia, placing
focus on expanding and improving our facilities and
warehouses.
Given the uncertain market environment, the Group
has adopted a cautious approach to expansion, placing
heightened emphasis on streamlining current operations
and prioritising working capital to ensure the long-term
sustainability of our business. Concurrently, we are
maintaining close and consistent contact with our suppliers
to safeguard our bean supply.
NAVIGATING SUB-OPTIMAL MARKET CONDITIONS
The outlook for 2024 appears to be challenging due to
persistent geopolitical tensions in Eastern Europe and the
Middle East. However, the International Monetary Fund
World Economic Outlook report published in January 2024
suggests that global GDP growth is expected to remain
steady at 3.1%, reflecting greater-than-expected resilience
in several emerging markets and developed economies
compared to the previous year.
Meanwhile, Bank Negara Malaysia's quarterly report
published in February 2024 has projected GDP growth
for Malaysia to range between 4% and 5% in 2024,
underpinned by ongoing expansion in domestic demand
and improvements in external demand.
Amidst rising global cocoa bean prices, we remain
committed to upholding the quality of our products,
vigilantly tracking market trends and adapting our
production and pricing strategies accordingly to ensure the
long-term sustainability of our customer relationships.
Since our inception in 1985, we have demonstrated
remarkable resilience in overcoming business challenges,
even in the face of circumstances beyond our control. In
fact, orders have recently increased as customers seek to
mitigate the impact of higher cocoa bean prices, with high
consumer demand set to persist due to growth in travel and
increased festivities throughout the year. Leveraging on
our status as the 4th largest producer of cocoa ingredients
globally, we remain well-positioned to capitalise on this
increase in demand and adeptly navigate forthcoming
challenges.
Moving forward, while our focus remains on our core
business of cocoa ingredient processing, we will also
capitalise on our expansion into industrial chocolate
production and the direct presence we have established
in Europe through our German and UK subsidiaries. This
strategic synergy between our cocoa ingredient and
industrial chocolate businesses positions us for long-term
earnings growth and empowers us to effectively meet the
evolving demands of our customers.
The outlook for our business is further supported by
the value-added services offered by our subsidiaries in
Delaware and New Jersey, US, which include cocoa cake
grinding, cocoa butter and cocoa liquor melting, as well as
cocoa butter deodorising.
In summary, our worldwide presence and diverse product
offerings provide us with additional revenue streams,
a varied product mix and diversified risks, all of which
contribute to enhancing our earnings and fulfilling our
long-term growth objectives. Additionally, our growing
proximity to customers allows us to better meet their
requirements for quality and timeliness, lending us greater
agility in adapting to the shifting industry landscape.
FOSTERING BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH
ENHANCED ESG PRACTICES
Amidst a rapidly changing regulatory landscape and
increasing stakeholder demands, we are committed to
not only meeting but exceeding expectations. Our core
business objectives, including profitability, reliability,
business stability and market share, along with our efforts
to enhance the quality and capacity of our cocoa processing,
are being closely aligned with our sustainability ambitions,
ensuring steady and comprehensive progress across the
ESG spectrum.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
32 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Sustainability Governance, page 80
READ
MORE
Sustainability Governance & Workstreams
To this end, we have bolstered our sustainability
governance through the establishment of six sustainability
workstreams. These workstreams encompass critical
environmental and social aspects relevant to our business
operations, allowing us to concentrate on our most
significant sustainability priorities and ensuring effective
planning and execution of our strategies.
Caring Beyond Cocoa
Executes GCB’s CSR strategies through our "Healthy
Planet","HappyEmployees"and"ThrivingCommunities"
pillars.
Circular Economy
Spearheads efforts to manage environmental impact
through water and waste initiatives, and by promoting a
circular economy that considers product end-of-life.
Climate Action
Oversees the development of a climate transition plan
that highlights carbon reduction initiatives and considers
our primary climate-related risks and opportunities.
Responsible Sourcing
Guides our transition towards sustainable sourcing
practices, especially for high-risk supply chains.
Corporate Stewardship
Embeds sustainability practices throughout our
operations to ensure adherence to Group-wide policies
and procedures.
Human Rights
Addresses social inequity issues and promotes diversity
and inclusivity within our workforce and supply chains.
RM5.99 billion
in value generated for our stakeholders
Over 66,000 GJ
of renewable energy generated from solar
panels and waste-to-energy boilers
Over 10,403
households covered by CLMRS
FY2023 Sustainability Highlights
Good Cocoa & Beyond Programme
Our GC&B Programme exemplifies our commitment to
embedding sustainability at the heart of our operations.
Our overarching objective is to achieve 100% traceable and
sustainable cocoa* within our direct cocoa bean sourcing
network.
The programme is built upon four key pillars of
sustainability aimed at addressing the social, economic
and environmental challenges prevalent in our supply
chain, particularly in cocoa-producing regions. Guided by
these pillars, we will continue efforts to enhance farmer
income, empower farmers and their communities, provide
responsibly produced cocoa and play our role to safeguard
the environment.
Providing Responsible Cocoa
Protecting the Environment
Benefitting Farmers & their Communities
Improving Farmer Income
Throughout 2023, we undertook various initiatives to
advance these pillars, highlighted by the undertaking of
deforestation risk assessments covering 73,245 ha of cocoa
farms from which we directly source our cocoa, along with
the establishment of 6,822 ha of new cocoa agroforestry
systems.
Sustainable Sourcing Practices, page 98
READ
MORE
Note:
* Traceable and sustainable cocoa: Cocoa that is produced
according to internationally recognised sustainability
standards, which includes traceability with location mapping
and addressing child labour and deforestation concerns.
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 33
Material Matters and Associated ESG Risks
& Opportunities, page 89
READ
MORE
Contributing towards the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals
We take pride in our contribution to the UN SDGs. In
FY2023, we aligned our material matters with relevant
targets outlined within these goals, giving greater meaning
and purpose to our actions. We aim to carefully assess the
impacts of our business and operations to ensure we share
positive values that may benefit both current and future
generations.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Caring Beyond Cocoa, page 110 &
Diversity & Inclusion, page 112
READ
MORE
Our Policies and Procedures, page 84 &
Material Matters and Associated ESG
Risks & Opportunities, page 89
READ
MORE
Caring Beyond Cocoa
CBC serves as a foundational workstream and integral
component of GCB's comprehensive CSR strategy, aimed
at driving concerted progress towards our sustainability
goals. To ensure focused and impactful implementation,
dedicated teams have been established to oversee CBC
initiatives across three key pillars: "Healthy Planet", "Happy
Employees" and "Thriving Communities".
Under these pillars, we engage in social outreach
endeavours to empower marginalised groups such as
youth, low-income individuals and rural communities,
actively support local environmental projects while raising
awareness for environmental conservation, and prioritise
the well-being, happiness and engagement of our staff.
oversee and conduct materiality assessments, evaluating
our key sustainability risks and opportunities in line with
prevailing guidelines and the evolving industry landscape.
Through this robust governance structure, we are well-
equipped and committed to identifying risks across the
strategic, operational, financial or compliance domains, and
implementing the most appropriate strategies to address
them proactively and efficiently.
Ultimately, we are deeply cognizant that sustainability is
integral to our growth strategy. By cultivating sustainable
business practices, we contribute positively not only to our
business but also to society and the environment, placing us
on the right trajectory to maximise long-term value creation.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
In closing, I extend my heartfelt appreciation to the
esteemed members of the BOD, the dedicated management
team and all the hardworking employees of GCB. Your
unwavering commitment and diligent efforts have played
a pivotal role in driving the Group towards its ambitions,
reinforcing our position as the world's 4th largest cocoa
grinder and a leading supplier of chocolate ingredients.
Furthermore, I am deeply grateful to our valued customers,
suppliers and business partners, whose trust and
collaboration have been instrumental in our journey of
growth and success. Your continued support, particularly
during the challenging circumstances of the past year, has
been invaluable to us.
As we navigate through the complexities of the business
landscape, it is our collective goal to further enhance
our business stability, profitability and operational
sustainability. By remaining steadfast in our commitment to
excellence, innovation and sustainability, we are confident
of delivering enhanced outcomes and sustained growth in
the years ahead.
Ms. Ang Nyee Nyee
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
ELEVATING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE &
SUSTAINABILITY
We firmly advocate for sound corporate stewardship in all
aspects of our Group's business activities. Our emphasis
on implementing responsible and ethical practices and
principles is integral to ensuring the stability, efficiency and
integrity of our operations, while concurrently safeguarding
our reputation and fostering strong relationships with our
stakeholders.
Our comprehensive policies and procedures remain
fundamental in enabling us to effectively mitigate potential
risks that may affect our business. Additionally, to adapt
to the evolving landscape, the ERM Committee and SD
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
34 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
COMMITTEE
MEMBERSHIP KEY
ANG NYEE NYEE
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman
Ang Nyee Nyee was first appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director
of GCB on 11 November 2020 before being re-designated as the Independent
Non-Executive Chairman on 5 April 2023.
She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from the University of
London, UK, and is qualified with the Certificate in Legal Practice awarded by
the Legal Profession Qualifying Board, Malaysia. She was called to the Bar and
admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor in 1993. In 1994, she became a Legal
Assistant at Nik Saghir & Ismail (the precursor of RTNP), and from 2004 to 2008,
served as a Partner at RTNP. Currently, she is a Partner at RTNP.
She was ceased as the Chairman of the Company’s NC, and a Member of
both the RC and RMC, on 1 December 2023. She is not a director of any other
public company. She has no family relationship with any director and/or major
shareholder of the Company, nor does she have any conflict of interest with the
Company. She has not been convicted for any offences within the past five years.
She attended all five board meetings that were held during FY2023.
BOARD COMPOSITION
Risk
Management
Committee
RMC
Audit
Committee
AC
Remuneration
Committee
RC
Nomination
Committee
NC
Malaysian | 56 | Female
5/5
Meetings Attendance
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE
Independent Non-Executive Directors
57%
57% 43%
Female
Male
Gender
14% 72% 14%
50-55 56-60 >60
Age Group
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 35
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE
TAY HOE LIAN
Managing Director/CEO
Tay Hoe Lian was appointed as the Managing Director and CEO of GCB on
8 January 2005.
He graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the College
of Business Administration at the University of Toledo, US in 1993. After graduating,
he was appointed as a Transport Division Manager at JB Cocoa Group Sdn. Bhd.
In 1997, he assumed the role of Marketing Manager at GCCM, garnering extensive
experience in marketing cocoa powder across the European, Middle Eastern and
South American markets. In 1999, he was elected as a Director of GCCM and later
promoted to General Manager (2002) and Managing Director (2003).
His unwavering dedication played a pivotal role in GCCM’s successful production
capacity expansion, propelling the Company to hold a leading position in the global
cocoa bean processing industry in terms of processing capacity and market share.
He has since been elected as a Member of the MCB, which is under the purview of
the Malaysian Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities, and will hold the
position from 1 February 2023 to 31 January 2025.
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay How Sik @
Tay How Sick, an Executive Director, COO and a shareholder of the Company. He
does not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted
for any offences within the past five years.
He attended all five board meetings that were held during FY2023.
Malaysian | 59 | Male
5/5
Meetings Attendance
TAY HOW SIK @
TAY HOW SICK
Executive Director/COO
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick was appointed as the Executive Director and COO
of GCB on 8 January 2005.
From 1987 to 2003, he was a Director at JB Cocoa Group Sdn. Bhd., playing a
crucial role in establishing their cocoa beans processing plant and overseeing
the setup of the production line and machinery installation. In 1989, he assumed
the dual responsibilities of Director and Factory Manager at GCCM, and has
maintained authority over its factory operations ever since.
Throughout his career, he has amassed profound knowledge and proficiency in
crafting cocoa-derived food ingredients, while simultaneously honing his skills
in maintaining and adapting machinery to foster enhanced production efficiency
and product excellence.
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay Hoe
Lian, the Managing Director, CEO and a shareholder of the Company. He does
not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted
for any offences within the past five years.
He attended all five board meetings that were held during FY2023.
Malaysian | 64 | Male
5/5
Meetings Attendance
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
36 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE
NURULHUDA
BINTI ABD KADIR
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive
Director of GCB on 11 November 2020.
She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from the International Islamic
University of Malaysia. From 2004 to 2009, she held the position of Partner at
Nik Saghir & Ismail (the precursor of RTNP), and subsequently, from 2010 to
2016, served as a Senior Partner at RTNP. Currently, she is a Partner at Faizah
Aishah Rahman & Associates.
She is the Chairman of the Company’s RC, and a Member of both the AC and NC.
She is not a director of any other public company. She has no family relationship
with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company, nor does she have
any conflict of interest with the Company. She has not been convicted for any
offences within the past five years.
She attended four board meetings that were held during FY2023.
Malaysian | 57 | Female
AC
RC
NC
4/5
Meetings Attendance
HIA CHENG
Executive Director/CFO
Hia Cheng was appointed as the Executive Director and CFO of GCB on
8 January 2005.
He obtained his professional accounting qualification from the ACCA in 1991 and
became a FCCA of the ACCA in 2001. From 1986 to 1990, he was with TH Liew &
Gan, a local audit firm, before joining GCCM in 1991 as the Accounts Supervisor.
In 1996, he was promoted to Finance and Trading Manager of GCCM, leading the
department in the sourcing of cocoa beans and the marketing of cocoa butter,
cocoa mass and cocoa cake. In October 2022, he was appointed as a Director of
GCBUKP, the Group’s newly established subsidiary in the UK functioning as a
property management company.
Over the years, he has been actively involved in corporate strategy planning, as
well as financial and foreign currency management. Additionally, he spearheads
feasibility studies and investment appraisals for all expansion ventures within
GCB. His efforts have bolstered GCB’s affiliations with major industry players,
spanning international trading companies, essential suppliers, customers and
cocoa-related organisations. Currently, he oversees the trading, marketing,
accounting, finance and logistic functions of the Group, and concurrently leads
GCB’s expansion initiatives within the European market.
He is the Chairman of the Company’s RMC. He is not a director of any other public
company. He has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder
of the Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has not been convicted for any offences within the past five years.
He attended all five board meetings that were held during FY2023.
5/5
Meetings Attendance
Malaysian | 59 | Male
RMC
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 37
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE
NG KIM HIAN
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Ng Kim Hian was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of GCB
on 27 February 2023.
He obtained his professional accounting qualification from the ACCA in 2002.
He is now a FCCA of the ACCA, and a Member of both the MIA and ACTIM.
With over 30 years of experience in public practice, his expertise in the planning
and management of audit services spans a multitude of sectors, including
manufacturing, housing development and construction, plantation, hotel and
tourism businesses, trading and services companies, multinational corporations
and more. Beyond these, he actively engages in advisory roles relating to inbound
investments and indirect tax issues. Additionally, his proficiency extends to
serving as a Reporting Accountant for initial public offering exercises. Presently,
he serves as an Audit Partner at Crowe Malaysia PLT (Muar office).
He was appointed as the Chairman of the Company’s AC and a Member of the
Company’s RMC, RC and NC on 5 April 2023. He is not a director of any other
public company. He has no family relationship with any director and/or major
shareholder of the Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest with the
Company. He has not been convicted for any offences within the past five years.
He attended four board meetings that were held during FY2023.
Malaysian | 59 | Male
AC RMC
RC
NC
4/4
Meetings Attendance
TAN PUI SUANG
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tan Pui Suang was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of
GCB on 27 February 2023.
She is a FCCA of the ACCA and a Member of the MIA. Her affiliation with the
Group is marked by extensive corporate experience spanning corporate finance,
planning, financial management and auditing. Notable positions she has held in
the past include Asia Pacific Regional Operations Controller at TechnipFMC Asia
Pacific, a multinational oil and gas services group listed on both the New York
Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris, as well as Corporate Planning Manager at
Malaysia Marine and Heavy Engineering Holdings Berhad, a company listed on
the Main Market of Bursa Securities. Additionally, she used to hold the position
of Senior Auditor at Deloitte & Touche in Singapore.
Currently, she is the Director of Finance and Corporate Services at the University
of Reading, Malaysia. Additionally, she serves as an Independent Non-Executive
Director for VS Industry Berhad, a company listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Securities.
She was appointed as the Chairman of the Company’s NC and a Member of
both the Company’s RC and RMC on 1 December 2023 and a member of the
Company’s AC on 5 April 2023. She has no family relationship with any director
and/or major shareholder of the Company, nor does she have any conflict of
interest with the Company. She has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five years.
She attended four board meetings that were held during FY2023.
4/4
Meetings Attendance
Malaysian | 53 | Female
AC RMC
RC
NC
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
38 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
TAY HOW YEH
Director
TAY SEE MIN
Commercial Director
Tay How Yeh was appointed as the Director of GCCM in
January 2003. Currently, he also serves as the Director
of GCBCS and GCBCM.
He graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Business
Administration from the College of Business
Administration at the University of Toledo, US in 1989.
Between 1990 and 1995, he served as Manager of
GCT, where he was tasked with sourcing cocoa beans
in Tawau, Sabah. Over the years, he has amassed
significant experience in logistics and the assessment
of cocoa beans quality.
Since joining GCCM in 1995 as a Production Manager,
he has assumed responsibility of the Production
Department, playing a key role in production capacity
expansion, production planning and QC. In 2008, he was
designated as the Production and Operation Manager
of GCBF, overseeing production planning, raw material
procurement, inventory control and QC. Currently, he
focuses on overseeing the operations of GCBCCI.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
is the cousin of Tay Hoe Lian, the Managing Director,
CEO and a shareholder of the Company, and brother
of Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director,
COO and a shareholder of the Company. He does not
have any conflict of interest with the Company and has
not been convicted for any offences within the past five
years.
Tay See Min was appointed as the Commercial Director
of GCBCS on 10 December 2010.
She graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Information
System from Monash University, Australia in 1993.
After graduating, she entered the IT industry and was
last employed by the American International Assurance
as an IT Manager.
Since becoming a part of GCCM, she has taken an
active role in trading cocoa beans and promoting the
sales and marketing of cocoa products. In 2012, she
was appointed to oversee the Indonesian market and
successfully set up a trading company in Jakarta, namely
GCBCI. She has since been managing the subsidiary
and was responsible for the Group’s expanded
customer base in Indonesia. In October 2022, she
was appointed as a Director of GCBUKP, the Group’s
newly established subsidiary in the UK functioning as a
property management company.
Her current responsibilities encompass both the
commercial and IT functions within the Group. She
also leads various committees, including ERM,
Corporate Governance, Sustainability, CSR and
Corporate Communications. Actively participating in
corporate strategic planning and project management,
her primary focus lies in identifying expansion and
investment opportunities, particularly within Côte
d’Ivoire and the European region. Additionally, she
oversees our ongoing efforts to automate IT systems
across the Group.
She is not a director of any other public company. She is
the sister of Tay Hoe Lian, the Managing Director, CEO
and a shareholder of the Company, and cousin of Tay
How Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director, COO and
a shareholder of the Company. She does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company and has not been
convicted for any offences within the past five years.
Malaysian Malaysian
58 52
Male Female
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
Integrated Annual Report 2023 39
YAU TEE WAN
Group Senior Operation Manager
EDGAR ALEXANDER BITTONG
President of Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
Yau Tee Wan was appointed as the Senior Operation
Manager of GCCM on 1 January 2012.
He graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Physics
from Universiti Malaya in 1997. After graduating, he
joined Dunham Bush Sdn. Bhd. as an R&D Engineer,
responsible for the research and development of air
conditioning equipment. Subsequently, he worked with
Mewaholeo Industries Sdn. Bhd. as a Senior Production
Executive, where he specialised in overseeing the
production of specialty fats, including frying oil,
margarine and shortening, before taking on the role of
a Maintenance Manager in GCCM on 18 March 2002.
He was promoted to Operation Manager in 2005, and
subsequently to Senior Operation Manager in 2010.
Currently, he oversees the operations of all
manufacturing facilities within the Group - covering
GCCM, GCBCM, GCBF, ACI and SCHOKINAG -
ensuring optimal efficiency, high production yield and
cost-effective processing. Additionally, he led and
supervised the team that managed the construction
and development of our expansion projects in Côte
d’Ivoire and the UK.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past five years.
Edgar Alexander Bittong was appointed as the
President of Carlyle in June 2020.
He obtained a Bachelor’s of Science in Industrial
Engineering from the University of Central Florida, US,
in 2007. In the same year, he started his career as a
Site Engineer for PLOT Enterprise Ghana Limited,
responsible for overseeing machine installations,
civil works and factory building construction. He was
promoted to Production Manager in 2009 and managed
the factory operations to ensure consistent throughput,
while supervising plant improvements to enhance
efficiency. In 2011, he joined Euromar Commodities
as a Process Engineer, and became a Project Engineer
in the subsequent year. Over the years, he gained
extensive knowledge and experience in designing
building layouts, project management and planning,
empowering him to drive continual improvements in
production efficiency. In 2013, he joined Cocoa Services
LLC as a Production Manager before being promoted to
Plant Manager in 2016.
Following the asset acquisition of Cocoa Services
LLC by Carlyle, he joined Carlyle in March 2018 as a
Vice President, leveraging his experience in growth
management,staffdevelopmentandsalesimprovement
for the Company’s Delaware and Swedesboro factories.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past five years.
Malaysian German
51 40
Male Male
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
40 LEADERSHIP STATEMENT
WOONG YOKE MUN
Group QA Manager
TING BING KEH
Group Operation Manager
Woong Yoke Mun was appointed as the Quality
Manager of GCCM on 1 January 2018.
She obtained her Bachelor’s degree in Engineering
with Honours (Chemical Engineering) from Universiti
Malaysia Sabah in 2005. Beginning her career as a
Quality Executive with GCCM on 18 April 2005, she
has accumulated 18 years of extensive experience
in upholding and supervising QA, QC, food safety
and regulatory affairs of the Company. In 2012, she
was promoted to Assistant Quality Manager, and
subsequently to Quality Manager on 1 January 2018,
where she was tasked with overseeing the QC of raw
materials as well as the finished products of GCCM,
GCBF, GCBCM and ACI. On 1 January 2023, she was
promoted to Group QA Manager and on 27 February
2023, appointed as a member of the Key Senior
Management.
Some of her key responsibilities today are spearheading
the development and execution of food safety and
sanitation initiatives under the Foods Safety Quality
Management System, and managing our training and
certification programme to ensure compliance with
global regulatory standards.
She is not a director of any other public company. She
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does she have any conflict of interest
with the Company. She has not been convicted for any
offences within the past five years.
Ting Bing Keh was appointed as the Operation Manager
of GCCM in January 2015.
He obtained his Bachelor’s degree in Engineering
with Honours (Chemical Engineering) from Universiti
Sains Malaysia in 2001. In May 2003, he embarked
on his career with GCCM as a Maintenance Executive.
In 2008, he was promoted to Assistant Manager and
subsequently to Maintenance Manager in 2010. He
accumulated invaluable expertise by overseeing the
execution of ongoing maintenance, improvement and
expansion projects undertaken by the management.
His collaborative efforts with the QC and Production
Departments played a pivotal role in guaranteeing the
seamless and optimal functioning of the plant. On 27
February 2023, he was promoted to his current position
of Operation Manager and appointed as a member of
the Key Senior Management.
Currently, he is responsible for overall production and
maintenance management, ensuring strict adherence
to health and safety regulations, supervising
operational cost control, and meticulously strategising
and executing all expansion and enhancement projects.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past five years.
Malaysian Malaysian
43 47
Female Male
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Strategic Review
42 Market Overview
43 Outlook
44 Our Value Creation Story
46 Value Creation Business Model
48 Key Stakeholder Engagement
52 Material Matters
55 Key Risks & Mitigation Actions
61 Growth Strategies
Financial Review
64 Financial Review
Operational Performance Review
69 Operational Performance Review
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
42
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
Supply & Demand Dynamics
The cocoa industry grappled with a persistent supply deficit
in the 2022/23 crop year, following a similar deficit in the
previous 2021/22 crop year. This trend primarily stemmed
from reduced cocoa production in origin countries affected
by adverse weather and diseases, leading to a decline in
global cocoa grinding by 4.0% compared to the preceding
crop year. However, there has been increased planting of
cocoa seedlings in Indonesia and certain regions of South
America, which may improve future cocoa bean supplies.
Price Volatility
The New York and London cocoa futures markets
experienced considerable volatility in 2023, reaching
35-year and 46-year highs of more than USD4,200 and
GBP3,500 per MT. Both prices have continued to rise
and reach new historical highs in 2024. This price surge
has presented a challenge for cocoa grinders, who face
increased input costs for raw materials. Under pressure
to ensure their profit margins, they may actively explore
ways to pass on the increased cost to customers along
the value chain. This will place upward pressure on prices
across the cocoa industry, with market players grappling
with the dilemma of raising prices or absorbing costs to
maintain competitiveness.
Economic Challenges
The prevailing global inflationary pressures have prompted
an uptick in interest rates, a trend that is likely to persist
due to the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the global
economic outlook. Concurrently, this gloomy economic
outlook may impact discretionary spending, primarily
due to the burden of high household debt-servicing costs
limiting customers' disposable income.
As we navigate through the strategic landscape of our operations, it is essential to gain a comprehensive understanding of
the prevailing conditions in the cocoa market, such as supply and demand dynamics, price fluctuations, economic challenges
and sustainability milestones, all of which shape our strategic approach in the ever-evolving cocoa industry.
Economic Recession Concerns
The looming possibility of an economic recession poses
further challenges. The combination of inflation, higher
interest rates and escalating commodity prices could
result in a global economic slowdown. While the chocolate
industry is often considered recession-resistant, driven by
people's inclination to indulge in affordable luxuries during
economic downturns, the extent of this resilience hinges on
the overall economic climate and broader impact of rising
living costs, including escalating food prices and housing
expenses.
Sustainability Advancements
FY2023 marked a significant milestone in sustainability as
the EU formalised regulations pertaining to deforestation-
free products. In response to this development, industry
stakeholders are collaboratively working to ensure
comprehensive traceability throughout the cocoa value
chain, reaffirming their commitment to sustainable
practices. This commitment is instrumental in providing
consumers with transparency regarding the origin and
production methods of cocoa products, furthering the
credibility and long-term sustainability of the industry as
whole.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
MARKET OVERVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 43
While the Group acknowledges the
presence of external factors beyond
our control, we remain committed to
navigating through these headwinds
by maintaining our focus on seizing
business opportunities, fulfilling
customer demand and generating
sustainable profits to support our
growth objectives.
Navigating the Surge in
Historic Cocoa Bean Prices
In 2024, cocoa bean prices soared to
unprecedented heights, fuelled by
a global deficit caused by adverse
weather conditions and widespread
diseases in origin countries. In response
to this challenge, we have implemented
strategic measures to navigate the
heightened costs and ensure the
sustainability of our operations.
To address the impact of rising
prices, we have adjusted our product
pricing structure, aiming to pass on
the increased costs to our customers.
Simultaneously, we are actively
managing our collection processes to
guarantee timely customer payments.
Our vigilant approach also includes
meticulous monitoring of supply
dynamics in origin countries, ensuring a
steady influx of cocoa beans to sustain
our production lines.
Additionally, we maintain proactive
communication with our banking
facilities, securing ample trade and
working capital lines. Amidst prevailing
market uncertainties, our steadfast
commitment remains focused on
sustaining the quality of our products
and navigating these challenges with
resilience.
Côte d'Ivoire Presence Brings Us
"Close to Source" & "Close to Market"
Our expansion into Côte d'Ivoire, the
world's largest cocoa bean supplying
country, has brought us closer to
the source of cocoa beans, allowing
us to initiate sustainability projects
from the very beginning of the cocoa
bean procurement process. This
strategic expansion enhances our
cost-effectiveness, enabling us to
better reach chocolate-consuming
countries in Europe and the UK, where
most of our customers are located.
Our growing presence in Côte d'Ivoire
will undeniably strengthen our long-
term position as a global player in the
chocolate supply chain.
Prepared to Mitigate Recession
Impacts & Rising Costs
High interest rates and inflation have
begun to impact household spending
power. While we anticipate a stable
demand for cocoa and chocolate
products in the short term, we are
prepared for the challenges ahead,
given the potential risks of a global
economic recession. Although
chocolate is relatively recession-
resistant, a decline in consumer
purchasing power may affect demand.
To address these and other future
challenges, we continue to focus
on our fundamental strategies,
including operational objectives such
as maintaining high utilisation of our
cocoa grinding facilities, optimising cost
efficiency, adapting and responding
agilely to changes in the cocoa
landscape, and adopting forward-
thinking strategic planning while
upholding ethical and responsible
business practices.
We actively monitor and manage
operating costs and potential risks
to maintain our competitiveness
and enhance stability and efficiency
within our supply chain, which will
be vital in navigating an uncertain
future economic climate. With these
fundamentals in place, we concentrate
on our three core growth strategies -
Growth & Expansion, Sustainability and
Innovation - allowing us to maximise
our cost efficiencies and capture a more
substantial share of the global cocoa-
derived ingredients and chocolate
market.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Leveraging Established
Fundamentals to Meet
Stakeholder Expectations
To ensure that we continue to not only
meet but exceed the expectations of our
diversestakeholders,wearecommittedto
seeking progress within our fundamental
focus areas of profitability, reliability,
business stability and market share. In
our cocoa processing operations in key
grinding countries, we are committed to
expandingproductioncapacity,enhancing
product quality and prioritising the
sustainability of cocoa, further solidifying
our commitment to ESG considerations in
response to growing interest among our
customer base.
We see significant potential for growth
through capacity-driven initiatives, as
demonstrated by our expansion into
new regions like Côte d'Ivoire, Germany
and the UK since 2019. These moves
reflect our ambitious plans for long-
term growth, and have simultaneously
unlocked various opportunities to
complement and add value to our core
business of producing cocoa-derived
food ingredients.
A prime example of this is our
integration into industrial chocolate
production. By utilising internally
produced cocoa-derived food
ingredients to create industrial
chocolate at our Germany production
facility, we have established a
complete internal supply chain and
unlocked valuable cost efficiencies.
Moreover, we can leverage our
presence and production facilities in
Europe and the UK to label our products
as "Made in Europe" and "Made in the
UK", bolstering our ability to penetrate
markets with a high demand for
European and UK chocolate.
Collectively, these strategies empower
us to not only meet the requirements
of our key customers but also
effectively address their expectations
in four core areas: building a global
supply chain presence, enhancing
cost-effectiveness, increasing ESG
considerations and embracing greater
sustainability practices.
OUTLOOK
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
44
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Our approach to value creation takes into account
a wide range of factors that include the global
macroenvironment, stakeholder needs, fundamental
elements crucial to our ability to generate value, key
risks and mitigation actions, growth strategies as well
as established business activities.
We start off this process by conducting a study to
comprehend the market and industry landscape
comprehensively. This thorough analysis, coupled with
valuable feedback from our stakeholders, provides us
with profound insights into the potential impacts of
our business and operational model. Armed with this
knowledge, we strategically develop business plans
capable of delivering value for our stakeholders in the
short, medium and long term.
As stewards of our business's performance and
sustainability, we maintain a vigilant watch on material
aspects and key risks. This ongoing monitoring,
coupled with mitigation actions, is geared towards
ensuring the seamless continuity of our operations,
and aligns with our growth strategies - Growth
& Expansion, Sustainability and Innovation - each
tailored to harmonise with our Six Capitals and fortify
our competitive advantages.
Beyond strategic alignment, our vision of "To Be The
Preferred Cocoa & Chocolate Ingredients Supplier"
propels our business activities. It reflects our passion
for delivering quality cocoa and chocolate with
meticulous attention to detail, and dovetails with our
commitment to sustainability, positioned at the core of
our operations.
Our sustainability pledge is not a mere aspiration; it is
a targeted mission. By aiming for 100% traceable and
sustainable cocoa ingredients in our direct sourcing
network by 2030, we bridge the gap between vision
and reality. Achieving this ambitious goal necessitates
stringent monitoring of our performance against ESG
factors and contributions to the UN SDGs. Detailed
insights into the symbiotic relationship between GCB's
business and sustainability initiatives can be found in
our SS 2023.
1
Through careful analysis of the global, local and industrial
landscape, we identify external factors that could impact
our business processes, strategies and overall ability
to create value, thereby enabling us to better navigate
challenges and maintain our competitive edge.
Market Overview & Outlook
UN SDGs
Market Overview & Outlook
1
Key Stakeholder Engagement
2
Material Matters
3
Key Risks & Mitigation Actions
4
ANALYSE
OUR VALUE CREATION STORY
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 45
FORMULATE
Growth Strategies
5
Capital Inputs
6
ESG
8
Business Activities
Procurement
QA
(Products & Processes)
Distribution
Production
Sales & Marketing
R&D
Value Creation
7
REINVESTMENT
IMPLEMENT
2
Simultaneously, we communicate and
engage with our key stakeholders
to understand their priorities and
expectations within the Group’s value
chain, with a broader aim of gaining
a comprehensive perspective on our
collective operations:
• Customers
• Shareholders & Investors
• Suppliers & Contractors
• Employees
• Governments & Regulators
Key Stakeholder Engagement
3
As a result of these activities, we identify material matters critical to our
ability to create value and stay competitive, segmented into key issues
and themes. For FY2023, five such matters were pinpointed, with specific
strategies formulated to enhance value creation within the scope of each
topic:
• Product Footprint, Pricing & Quality
• Sustainable Operational Performance & Expansion
• Responsible & Ethical Suppliers
• Talent Attraction, Development & Retention
• Governance & Compliance
Material Matters
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
4
Acknowledging the relevance of strategic, operational, financial and
compliance risks to our operations, we proactively customise our mitigation
strategies to minimise our exposure to these risks, maintain operational
resilience and safeguard financial stability.
Key Risks & Mitigation Actions
7
Moving beyond financial outcomes, we also reinvest our generated economic
value, including dividends to shareholders, contributions to national
economies, job opportunities and investments in social and environmental
initiatives, to drive continuous improvement across all our capitals.
Value Creation
8
Integral to our ethos is sustainability, which has been integrated into every
facet of our value creation and business activities, fostering shared value for
our stakeholders and communities.
ESG
5
To achieve concerted and collective efforts for harnessing progress across
the Group, we have identified three key strategies that capitalise and
highlight our competitive strengths, enabling us to stay attuned with the
evolving industry landscape and maintain our positioning as an innovative
and forward-thinking industry leader:
• Growth & Expansion
• Sustainability
• Innovation
Growth Strategies
6
The successful execution of our strategies is contingent upon the
optimised deployment of our capital resources - encompassing financial
assets, machinery, established processes, expertise and long-standing
relationships - which collectively forms a cohesive framework for our
operations:
• Financial Capital
• Manufactured Capital
• Intellectual Capital
• Human Capital
• Social & Relationship Capital
• Natural Capital
Capital Inputs
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
46
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Financial Capital
• Our steady and robust financial
position
• Our share capital
• Our shareholders’ equity
• Our borrowings
• Our access to debt and capital
markets
Manufactured Capital
Our existing facilities:
• Pasir Gudang, Malaysia (2)
• Batam, Indonesia (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
• Delaware, US (1)
• Swedesboro, US (1)
• San Pedro, Côte d’Ivoire (1)
• Suffolk, UK (1)
Intellectual Capital
• Our innovative processes and
technologies
• Our brand value, reputation and
market experience as the 4th
largest cocoa grinder globally
• Our energy management and
data collection systems
Social & Relationship Capital
• Our strong relationships with
our key stakeholders
• Our Group-wide policies
governing sustainable practices
across our supply chain
Natural Capital
• Our cocoa beans, sourced from
Southeast Asia, Africa and
South America
• Our energy usage encompassing
electricity, gas and steam
• Our generated and consumed
solar energy from Group-wide
solar panels
• Our generation of steam from
residual cocoa shells used
for heating and running our
production machines
• Our utilisation of water in our
production processes
Human Capital
• Our strong and diverse Board,
supported by our corporate
governance structure
• Our experienced and diverse
pool of talent, including top
management and general staff
INPUTS
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to delivering quality cocoa and chocolates while
offering utmost flexibility and attention. Through forming strong alliances with
local partners, we are dedicated to serving our customers worldwide and growing
together with them in long-term partnerships.
AMBITION SINCERITY
Product
Quality &
Safety
Competitive
Prices
Flexibility &
Excellence
in Customer
Service
Technical
Support &
Innovation
Ethical
Operations
OUR PROMISES
OUR VISION
OUR MISSION
OUR VALUES
Procurement
Collaborating closely with suppliers
to ensure sustainable sourcing of raw
materials that meet our high quality
standards.
Production
Prioritising production that delivers top-
quality cocoa products with maximum
customer benefit and minimal
environmental impact.
QA (Products & Processes)
Establishing standardised safety
production processes and systems
compliant with global food and safety
standards.
Sales & Marketing
Capitalising on our managerial expertise,
operational experience and established
processes to produce and sell high-
quality cocoa products while consistently
gathering feedback to drive continuous
improvement and foster sustainable
value.
Distribution
Utilising a fully integrated distribution
system for efficient product delivery while
minimising environmental and social
impacts through energy management
and community safety measures.
R&D
Enhancing product quality and output
through dedicated research and
responsible resource utilisation, ensuring
the consistent delivery of innovative and
environmentally friendly products to our
customers.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
To Be The Preferred Cocoa & Chocolate Ingredients Supplier.
GRIT
Full Product
Range
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 47
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
VALUE CREATION
BUSINESS MODEL
Our Value Creation Business Model demonstrates how our strategies and business activities contribute effectively to
the significant and measurable results we consistently deliver to our stakeholders. Through the deliberate utilisation
and harnessing of each of our Six Capitals as depicted below, we generate positive business outcomes, elevate our
reputation and facilitate continuous growth in the global cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolate sector.
OUTPUTS OUTCOMES UN SDGs
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
READ
MORE
Key Stakeholder
Engagement, page 48
Customers
Shareholders & Investors
Suppliers & Contractors
Employees
Governments,
Regulators & NGOs
• Product Footprint, Pricing &
Quality
• Sustainable Operational
Performance & Expansion
• Responsible & Ethical
Suppliers
• Talent Attraction,
Development & Retention
• Governance & Compliance
MATERIAL MATTERS
READ
MORE
Material Matters,
page 52
• Competitive Risk
• Expansion & Liquidity Risk
• Cocoa Bean Supply Risk
• Human Workforce Risk
• Compliance Risk
RISKS
READ
MORE
Key Risks & Mitigation
Actions, page 55
GROWTH STRATEGIES
Growth & Expansion
Sustainability
Innovation
READ
MORE
Growth Strategies,
page 61
Financial Capital
• Cash and bank balance: RM85.09 million
• Revenue: RM5.32 billion
• Net profit: RM100.93 million
• Share capital: RM495.24 million
• Shareholders' equity: RM1.75 billion
• Earnings per share: 8.59 sen
• Net dividends per share: 2.00 sen
• Total borrowings: RM2.21 billion
• Net gearing ratio: 1.21 times
Financial Statements, page 162
READ
MORE
Manufactured Capital
• Existing production facilities:
- Bean Grinding: 330,000 MT
- Value-Added: 99,000 MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 116,000 MT
Where We Operate, page 12
READ
MORE
Intellectual Capital
• Enhanced reliance on advanced machinery and technologies
that reduce non-renewable energy use
• Greater use of solar panels and biomass machinery for energy
generation, improving our net energy consumption
• Adoption and implementation of relevant international quality
standards for cocoa products
• Energy monitoring by measuring kWh consumed per MT of
processed cocoa beans, aiming for consumption reduction
Snapshot of FY2023, page 17 &
Climate Change Adaptation, page 102
READ
MORE
Human Capital
• A diverse Board that is experienced and knowledgeable in key
areas like risk assessment, strategic planning, successional
planning, and financial and operational management
• 100% of our employees trained in the latest occupational
health and safety practices
• RM184.8 million distributed in FY2023 for directors’ and
employees’ remuneration and benefits
• A Succession Planning Policy and Procedure, as well as
a successor readiness programme, for the cultivation of a
sustainable talent pool
Financial Statements, page 162 &
Empowering Our People, page 118
READ
MORE
Social & Relationship Capital
• Heightened awareness amongst our stakeholders on the
need for sustainable business practices
• Contribution of over RM132,000 to local communities and
RM44.9 million in income taxes
Sustainable Growth, page 94
READ
MORE
Natural Capital
• Our high-quality purchased cocoa beans
• Energy consumed in FY2023:
- Electricity: 409,586 GJ
- Natural gas: 433,036 GJ
- Heat purchased: 7,057 GJ
- Solar energy: 9,974 GJ
• Total volume of water discharged: 913.7 ML
Climate Change Adaptation, page 102 &
Mindful Water Management, page 105
READ
MORE
Customers
• Solid customer
collaborations driven by
consistent volume and
quality fulfilment
• Continual expansion and
broadening of our reach in
the Asian and European
markets
Shareholders & Investors
• Maintaining strong financial
stability
• Generating continual and
growing value through
capital appreciation and
dividend distributions
Suppliers & Contractors
• Steady supplier base
growth
• Fostering responsible
practices that benefit both
the communities involved
and the environment
• Enhancing product quality
and bolstering the adoption
of advanced technology
Employees
• Skilled, motivated and
diverse workforce
• Non-discriminatory and
equal opportunities for
employees
• Improved employee
engagement, productivity
and satisfaction
• Clear grievance and
whistleblowing procedures
• Career progression and
reward systems
• Adherence to international
quality and safety standards
Snapshot of FY2023,
page 17
READ
MORE
Governments, Regulators
& NGOs
• Continued economic
contributions through sales
and taxes
• Consistent alignment with
government policies
• Continued engagement in
essential CSR activities
• Sustained robust corporate
governance
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
48
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
In pursuit of better understanding the needs and motivations of our diverse stakeholders, we conduct purposeful
and collaborative engagement sessions with them throughout the fiscal year. This proactive approach enables us to
consistently enhance and refine our existing business strategies, thereby fostering the creation of sustainable, mutual
value. Outlined in the table below is a brief overview of our ongoing endeavours and initiatives undertaken during FY2023.
CUSTOMERS
Why We Engage
By actively engaging with our customers, we gather valuable insights on market
trends and evolving preferences. These perspectives keenly inform our efforts to
deliver exceptional products that meet or exceed customer expectations.
Furthermore, these engagements guide our strategic investments toward
innovating new products and refining our existing lineup, ultimately providing
greater value for our customers.
Concurrently, our dedication to customer engagement fosters and sustains a
diverse community of loyal patrons, propelling our continuous growth and
expansion.
How We Engage
• Calls and online meetings
• Email communications
• Face-to-face interactions
• Annual customer surveys
• Our corporate website
• Customer feedback channels
• Regular meetings and plant visits
• Trade shows
• Conferences
SHAREHOLDERS & INVESTORS
How We Engage
• Investor briefings and other investor
relations engagements
• Our announcements on Bursa Malaysia
• Our AGMs
• Our IARs
• Our corporate website
Why We Engage
Byengagingwithourshareholdersandinvestors,wederiveaclearunderstanding
of their expectations, enabling us to formulate strategies that consistently
deliver the growth and capital appreciation they are seeking.
Through consistent communication, we also ensure they remain well-informed
about the initiatives we are undertaking to improve our corporate governance and
sustainability practices, promoting transparency and accountability.
Furthermore, nurturing these relationships will also instil trust in our business
strategies and provide them with the confidence to support our management teams
in achieving their goals.
KEY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 49
How We Address Their Expectations
• Ensuring consistent communication and adhering to quality, shipping, delivery and other stipulations outlined in our sales
contracts.
• UpholdingsocialandlegalcompliancewithglobalstandardslikeSedex,whileformulatingacomprehensivesustainability
strategy for the Group and publicising this commitment to our customers.
• Engaging in knowledge exchange concerning ongoing and future market trends with our customers through weekly
pricing updates and regular correspondence.
• Collaborating closely with our customers to provide adaptable solutions that cater to their changing requirements, such
as offering technical support for product development, with an aim of expanding our market share and product portfolio.
• Maintaining dependable, always-on communication channels that connect customers with our sales, marketing and
production teams.
How We Address Their Expectations
• Maintaining ongoing communication among management teams across all departments, aiming to collectively prioritise and
achieve key investor expectations such as expansion plans, profit growth, stability and dividends.
• Leveraging our corporate governance practices for transparency and accountability, thus preventing scandals and fraud,
while reinforcing our rules, policies and procedures for the creation of lasting shareholder value.
• Consistently providing capital appreciation and dividend payouts.
• Embracing the <IR> Framework to convey the Group’s vision, sustainability endeavours and corporate governance in a
unified manner, with an emphasis on how we intend to generate and preserve value over the long run.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
50
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Why We Engage
By cultivating strong and enduring relationships with our suppliers and
contractors, we are able to secure the most advantageous prices, favourable
terms and exceptional services when conducting business transactions with
them.
These engagements are also vital in fostering a reliable supply chain, ensuring an
uninterrupted stream of raw materials that meet our stringent quality standards. This
is especially crucial for cocoa beans, which constitutes nearly 95% of our inputs.
Our priorities include promoting the adoption of cutting-edge technology
and sustainable packaging materials, as well as actively encouraging ethical
practices across our supply chain, contributing to a greener future and more
conscientious business environment.
How We Engage
• Calls and online meetings
• Email communications
• Face-to-face interactions
• Supplier and contractors’ meetings
• Supplier evaluations
• Our Supplier Code of Conduct
• Our corporate website
EMPLOYEES
Why We Engage
By engaging meaningfully with our employees, we enhance our comprehension
of their needs and expectations, and gain deeper insights into the array of
skills and capabilities at our disposal. This enables the strategic deployment of
resources for our sustainable growth.
Furthermore, aligning with the mindset and requirements of our employees
enhances talent recognition and spurs our ability to retain top talents, resulting
in the preservation of a competitive workforce with the required skills to maintain
our industry edge.
How We Engage
• Monthly management meetings
• Monthly Workers Committee meetings
• Regular employee meetings (daily,
weekly and monthly, depending on
the type of job)
• Employee appraisal sessions
• Team building activities
• Regular, role-specific training modules
• Information sharing platforms
GOVERNMENTS & REGULATORS
Why We Engage
By consistently liaising with government agencies and regulators in our
operating countries, we stay informed about evolving laws and regulations,
proactively reducing risks of disruptions to our multinational operations.
Our positive relationships with these authorities enable strategic compliance
and efficient business goal achievement, further enhancing our ability to
navigate complexities and fulfil operational commitments.
How We Engage
• Regulatory certification assessments
• Analyses of regulatory reports
• Visits by government officials and/or
regulatory agents
• Our announcements on Bursa
Malaysia and statutory reporting
• Audits and assessments
• Seminars and/or webinars, training
sessions, dialogues and forums
organised by regulatory bodies
SUPPLIERS & CONTRACTORS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 51
How We Address Their Expectations
• Establishing clear supplier and contractor expectations through KPIs, targets and best practices, specifically addressing
product quality, delivery and payment timelines.
• Upholding ethical excellence in our procurement procedures, particularly in regard to environmental and social
responsibilities.
• Maintaining regular, two-way communication channels with our suppliers and contractors to facilitate our awareness
of market shifts and future trends, thereby allowing us to share updates about our strategic plans and optimise raw
material and machinery planning.
• Ensuring seamless communication among our internal departments, including shipping, trading, sales and marketing, planning,
production and quality, along with our suppliers and contractors, thus safeguarding the consistency and high quality of our
cocoa bean supply.
• Conducting regular performance evaluations to continuously enhance and uphold the quality of our delivered products.
How We Address Their Expectations
• Consistently acknowledging and rewarding the diligent efforts of our employees through equitable and competitive
compensation and incentives.
• Offering avenues for professional growth and skills advancement through comprehensive developmental programmes
and training opportunities.
• Infusing our corporate vision, business direction and growth plans across all tiers of the Group, thus fostering a united
workforce driven by a shared mission.
• Maintaining consistent communication channels via bulletin boards, email notifications and our official corporate
website.
• Harmonising our employee recognition framework with our organisational objectives by integrating performance-based
incentives.
• Ensuring a secure and wholesome work environment that adheres to stringent occupational safety and health
benchmarks.
How We Address Their Expectations
• Supplying government officials and regulatory bodies promptly with the necessary reports and information.
• Ensuring smooth audits and site visits.
• Enhancing participation in government-led initiatives, particularly those focused on sustainable cocoa.
• Contributing to Malaysia’s economy through income tax payments.
• Remaining updated on legal changes through internal knowledge teams and external advisors.
• Advancing government sustainability agendas through our operational and product innovations.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
52
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Our material matters, encompassing the critical issues and themes that underpin our capacity to create value in the short,
medium and long term, are meticulously identified through a rigorous materiality assessment process. We continually
evaluate their relevance to our stakeholders, industry and regions of operation, adjusting our strategies and approach in
tandem with the evolving landscape.
Our Materiality Determination Process
IDENTIFICATION
In alignment with the Six Capitals of
the <IR> Framework, we first internally
analyse our business activities,
industry landscape and stakeholder
feedback to identify key matters that
may impact the Group's financial and
non-financial performance.
EVALUATION & PRIORITISATION
Following that, we gauge the
significance of these topics by
understandingtheirknownorpotential
impact on our ability to create value
and meet stakeholder expectations. In
FY2023, we focused our efforts on five
such material matters.
DETERMINATION
Finally, we undertake a thorough
process to determine the relevant
information to be disclosed within each
topic’s scope, while simultaneously
setting boundaries for each material
matter to guide our eventual reporting
process.
PRODUCT FOOTPRINT, PRICING & QUALITY
1
• We remain committed to delivering consistently high-
quality products, ensuring traceability to their source and
incorporating sustainable practices into our production
processes.
• We also strive to maintain competitive pricing, recognising
that this is a significant factor in our customers’ perception
of our brand and product value.
• Additionally, we prioritise product safety above all
else, and adhere rigorously to food and product safety
guidelines and other relevant regulations.
• Beyond these core focuses, which are crucial to
influencing our reputation, we pursue continuous growth
for the Group by expanding our capacity, strengthening
our market presence, enhancing product quality and
fostering innovation.
• To boost our production flow and optimise operational
efficiency, we have brought together a team of operational
leaders who possess robust knowledge on the latest
machinery and technology advancements. Concurrently,
our technical teams continually enhance and upgrade
our machinery, guided by meticulous performance data
analysis.
• Collectively, these efforts enable us to meet global
customer demands while upholding our competitive
pricing, strict quality standards and product outreach.
Description
Stakeholders involved: Capitals impacted: Growth strategies:
Operational Performance Review, page 69
READ
MORE
MATERIAL MATTERS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 53
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE & EXPANSION
2
• We carry out responsible and efficient resource
management to optimise our shareholder returns, build
confidence among current investors and attract potential
new investors to support our growth initiatives.
• Simultaneously, we acknowledge the significance of
minimising risk exposure and fortifying our resilience
against commodity market price fluctuations.
• Accordingly, we leverage a capable and ethical
management team with the necessary expertise and sound
decision-making abilities to achieve these objectives and
navigate the Group through risks and market uncertainties.
Description
Stakeholders involved: Capitals impacted: Growth strategies:
RESPONSIBLE & ETHICAL SUPPLIERS
3
• We recognise the importance of ensuring that our cocoa
bean suppliers exclusively engage with farmers who
adhere to stringent regulatory standards, encompassing
issues such as child labour, forced labour, deforestation
and other critical social and environmental concerns.
• Moreover, we expect our suppliers to actively communicate
our requirements and perform due diligence within their
respective supply chains.
• In our commitment to corporate stewardship and leading
by example, we have developed a fundamental guidance
framework for our suppliers to help them incorporate
sustainable practices within their operations and beyond.
• To enhance compliance throughout our supply chain, we
have implemented processes that empower and assist
our suppliers in meeting their contractually mandated
quality specification standards, as well as food safety
standards.
Description
Stakeholders involved: Capitals impacted: Growth strategies:
Sustainable Sourcing Practices, page 98
READ
MORE
Growth Strategies, page 61
READ
MORE
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
54
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION
4
• We recognise and appreciate our responsibility to provide
employees with safe and healthy workplaces, fostering a
culture that values work-life balance.
• We place great importance on a fair and equitable reward
system that considers the diverse levels and skill sets of
our employees across our business operations.
• Our commitment to the continuous development of
our employees is paramount in achieving our collective
organisational goals. To this end, we have introduced
targeted training initiatives aimed at enhancing the skills
and knowledge of our workforce.
• We value greater diversity within our workforce, valuing
both varied backgrounds and skills, in an effort to
strengthen our collective problem-solving capabilities
and equip us to address the challenges we may encounter.
This is evident in the make-up of our management teams,
each bringing a unique blend of skills, experiences and
backgrounds to empower our agile and capable approach
to business management and global expansion.
• Recognising the significance of providing career
development prospects to foster dedication and loyalty
among employees, we offer a range of exposure and
learning opportunities for all staff. We emphasise
internal promotions for those who have made substantial
contributions to the Group and are prepared to assume
higher positions. We also provide opportunities for staff
to engage in cross-departmental secondments or to work
in other countries.
• Additionally, we have established hiring processes that
enable us to effectively identify ambitious and proactive
candidates who aspire to grow their careers in tandem
with the Group.
• Lastly, we have implemented a Succession Planning
Policy and Procedure, complemented by a successor
readiness programme, to nurture and develop a pipeline
of talent within the organisation.
Description
Stakeholders involved: Capitals impacted: Growth strategies:
GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE
5
• We understand the vital role that strong corporate
governance plays in aligning our approach to value
creation and maintaining consistent corporate values
across all our business divisions and subsidiaries.
• We have implemented various measures and practices
to ensure stringent compliance with a wide array of legal
requirementsandregulations,includingthoserelatedtoESG,
product quality, food safety, Halal and Kosher certifications,
data protection and more.
Description
Stakeholders involved: Capitals impacted: Growth strategies:
Snapshot of FY2023, page 17
READ
MORE
• We also ensure compliance with industry and region-
specific laws and regulations, including taxation, EUDR
and LID levies applicable in our respective import
countries, by maintaining a vigilant eye on any changes
to the latest laws and regulations to ensure that our
business operations, particularly the GCBCCI factory
serving European markets, are compliant and prepared.
Empowering our People, page 118 &
Diversity & Inclusion, page 112
READ
MORE
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 55
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Robust risk management protocols are essential for preserving and securing our extensive global operations. To this end,
we have implemented a highly efficient procedure for identifying risks relevant to our business operations and have devised
strategies to minimise our vulnerability. Below, we outline our four risk categories, methodology for risk assessment and
risk matrix that reflects the Group’s prioritisation of risks based on their potential impact and likelihood.
Our Risk Categories:
Strategic Operational Financial Compliance
Risks primarily caused
by external events which
may significantly impact
our strategic decisions
and activities
Unfortunate events that
have the potential to
disrupt our day-to-day
operations and
processes
Risks that directly
impact our financial
performance
Instances of non-
compliance with laws and
regulations in our regions
of operations resulting
in financial penalties,
reputational damage or
revocation of business
licences
Our Risk Determination Process:
RISK
IDENTIFICATION
Identify risks
that stem from
our operating
environment
RISK
ASSESSMENT
Determine the
likelihood and
assess the potential
impacts of these
risks
RISK
EVALUATION
Evaluate the
effectiveness of
existing controls
for managing
these risks
RISK
TREATMENT
Make decisions
regarding risk
controls, mitigation
actions and
action plans
RISK MONITORING
& REPORTING
Review, monitor
and report the
progress and results
achieved through
the implementation
of mitigation actions
and action plans
Our Risk Matrix:
Likelihood
Impact
5
5
4
4
2
2
3
3
1
1
0
0
Risk Categories
1 Competitive Risk
2 Expansion & Liquidity Risk
3 Cocoa Bean Supply Risk
4 Human Workforce Risk
5 Compliance Risk
1
2
3
4
5
KEY RISKS & MITIGATION ACTIONS
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
56
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Competitive Risk
Material matters
impacted:
Product Footprint,
Pricing & Quality
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Operational • As one of the major cocoa
grinders in the industry, we
are in constant competition
with other global players.
Failure to adopt the latest
production technologies
could have a negative impact
on our competitiveness,
potentially resulting in the
loss of valued customers.
• However, it is crucial that we
adopt a calculated approach
in this regard as imprudent
investments may incur
significant costs, reduce
profitability and harm our
competitiveness.
• To maintain our
competitiveness, it is also
imperative that we continue
offering sustainable options
to our customers.
• Furthermore, we must
continue remaining vigilant
against potential health
hazards and inadequate
processes in our supply chain,
as these issues can trigger
customer complaints, raise
food safety concerns and
harm our reputation.
• Establishing cocoa processing facilities in
Côte d'Ivoire grants us access to higher-
quality raw materials in the world's largest
cocoa bean-producing country. This
expansion enables us to initiate sustainability
projects right from bean procurement,
enhancing operational efficiency and our
competitiveness.
• With our sustainability programme in
place, we better equip ourselves to deliver
sustainable products that are monitored and
assessed for deforestation, child labour and
other environmental issues.
• Expanding into the European and UK markets
strengthens our competitive position and
boosts product margins. We achieve this
through customer diversification, preference
targeting, competitive pricing and reduced
freight costs due to strategically located
production facilities.
• We offer a diverse range of cocoa products,
from natural to alkalised, in various colours,
including brown, red and black, all at
competitive prices.
• To ensure high-quality standards and
mitigate potential safety issues in our supply
chain, we have implemented the ISO 22000:
Food Safety Management System and adhere
to FSSC 22000 requirements.
• Prior to acquiring new machinery and
technology, we conduct due diligence and
engage experienced professionals to design
efficient machinery. Concurrently, we actively
participate in international exhibitions and
collaborate with machinery suppliers to
stay updated on the latest technological
developments and ensure our production line
meets customer quality requirements.
• Our dedicated marketers collaborate with our
R&D and QA teams to ensure timely delivery
ofproductsthatmeetcustomerspecifications,
while also managing relationships with
large multinational companies to uphold
our quality and reputation, and meet their
exacting standards.
• Additionally, we prioritise innovative product
development to tap into diverse market
segments.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 57
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Expansion &
Liquidity Risk
Material matters
impacted:
Sustainable
Operational
Performance &
Expansion
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Financial • As we expand globally
into Germany, the UK and
Côte d'Ivoire, we must
take into account potential
geographical risks that may
arise when entering new
markets, including differences
in market conditions, social
and cultural practices as well
as local business processes.
Inadequate assessments or
other due diligence measures
can result in significant
financial costs when
implementing expansion
plans.
• We are also susceptible to
price fluctuations resulting
from bean terminal market
movements, which can
adversely impact our margins
and profits.
• While increasing our capacity,
on the other hand, it is
essential to align our product
sales and bean purchases
with our production capacity.
Rigorous monitoring of our
cash flow is crucial to prevent
potential deficits.
• Our strategy for addressing workforce
challenges involves cultivating a balanced mix
of local hires and experienced personnel from
our headquarters to lead the setup, drawing
on our extensive experience from previous
expansions into Indonesia and the US to ensure
smooth operational integration.
• We conduct a careful assessment of the
Group's financial resources before pursuing any
potential new investments.
• To minimise the risks associated with
inadequately planned expansions, our efforts
are concentrated on expanding within our core
areas of expertise, which include bean grinding
and industrial chocolate.
• Before making any decisions regarding
expansion into a new country, we evaluate a set
of predefined criteria, encompassing political
issues, the strategic value of the location,
government incentives, long-term supply and
demand, quality issues, environmental concerns
and other relevant factors. We also conduct
feasibility studies on machinery, local energy
supply, local workforce and the environment.
• While executing a project, our project team
works to ensure that our costs remain within
budget.
• To proactively manage our cash flow risks, we
regularly monitor our marketing and trading
positions, reporting to management for
informed decision-making.
• We conduct working capital and bean inventory
forecasts to ensure sufficient working capital,
cash flow and financing, while simultaneously
maintaining a mix of long-term and short-term
loans to cater to both project and working
capital needs.
• Diligent monitoring of our gearing ratio
safeguards our reserves for expansion projects,
reinforced by detailed project forecasts.
• We employ hedging contracts to mitigate risks
from cocoa bean market price fluctuations,
leveraging on our Group Hedging Policy to
effectively control and manage our hedging
positions and price fixing. This aims to reduce
the financial risk arising from the volatility
of cocoa beans and related products' prices,
ultimately maintaining and enhancing our
competitiveness.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
58
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Cocoa Bean
Supply Risk
Material matters
impacted:
Responsible &
Ethical Suppliers
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Strategic • The supply of cocoa beans is
susceptible to various factors,
including climate change,
natural disasters, diseases or
political issues.
• Meanwhile, if our suppliers
fail to comply with our
Supplier Code of Conduct,
which prohibits engagement
in illegal activities such as
deforestation or child labour,
we could face scrutiny from
global unions, product
boycotts in the market and
potential reputational harm.
• We perform thorough background checks
on all new suppliers before entering into
agreements, avoiding collaboration with
those lacking an established company
background or portfolio.
• We require all of our suppliers to sign and
adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct,
which outlines our expectations for ethical
and sustainable practices.
• To ensure our suppliers maintain our
standards, we conduct regular supplier
audits. If an audit yields unsatisfactory
results, we request detailed evidence to
address any issues. We also implement
supplier sustainability evaluations to
assess whether suppliers have policies and
procedures in place to mitigate illegal or
unethical practices within their supply chain
while promoting sustainability throughout.
• With cocoa processing facilities in Côte
d’Ivoire, we gain proximity to the largest
source of cocoa beans in the world, reducing
the risk of cocoa bean supply shortages
during deficits.
• We continually expand our supplier base to
mitigate supplier concentration risk, avoiding
overreliance on a few major suppliers.
• We ensure there is sufficient stock to cover
both our production and sale commitments,
and have implemented sustainability
programmes aimed at providing cocoa trees
to farmers to encourage more planting.
• We strengthen control over the supplier
approval process to ensure that the Group
has access to only reliable suppliers.
• We maintain close contact with bean
suppliers and continuously monitor their
performance to ensure the timely delivery of
cocoa bean shipments.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 59
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Human
Workforce Risk
Material matters
impacted:
Talent Attraction,
Development &
Retention
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Operational • The inadequate evaluation
of job candidates can lead to
the recruitment of unskilled
personnel, resulting in
financial losses and damage
to our reputation.
• Conversely, the departure of
highly talented employees
could weaken our human
resources and the overall
collective capabilities of our
organisation.
• We must also remain
attentive to potential safety
risks, including those arising
from manufacturing accidents
and equipment malfunctions
to avoid possible negative
impacts on the organisation,
such as legal liabilities and
operational disruptions.
• Additionally, cultural and
linguistic disparities pose
a potential challenge to
the effective functioning of
our businesses, especially
concerning our international
subsidiaries.
• Weregularlyengageprofessionalrecruitment
agencies to provide consultancy services and
shortlist suitably qualified candidates for the
positions we require, mitigating the risk of
hiring underqualified talent.
• We prioritise employee well-being through
regular, Group-wide training on health and
safety guidelines and a comprehensive
benefits package that includes healthcare
and professional development programmes.
• Regular meetings between our headquarters
and global subsidiaries promote alignment
with our corporate vision, mission and goals,
fostering effective communication and
organisational unity.
• Strategic deployment of experienced
management and operational teams across
our global subsidiaries ensures cultural
integration and industry knowledge
alignment with the Group.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
60
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Risk Category Description Mitigation Actions
Compliance
Risk
Material matters
impacted:
Governance &
Compliance
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Compliance • Non-compliance with tax,
financial and sustainability-
related regulations such
as EUDR, food safety
regulations and relevant
laws can result in substantial
financial losses, product
restrictions and reputational
damage.
• Violation of cybersecurity
rules may lead to
compromised information,
compounding these negative
impacts.
• Conducting business
transactions with customers
and suppliers in sanctioned
or high-risk countries violates
international trade laws
and risks us being fined or
penalised.
• As a publicly listed company, we are
obligated to comply with Bursa requirements,
a responsibility managed by our Corporate
Governance Committee, which formalises
policies and procedures to ensure adherence.
• We regularly participate in professional
training events organised by relevant bodies
to stay updated on regulatory changes
affecting our operations. Topics include, but
are not limited to, accounting, finance, human
resources, tax and trading.
• When expanding into unfamiliar countries,
we maintain frequent communication
with the local authorities to gain a better
understanding of specific requirements and
incentives related to upcoming projects in the
region.
• To mitigate the risks of food safety and quality
issues, we have implemented a management
system for food safety and quality that
adheres to the FSSC 22000 standard.
• We have established detailed internal
controls and SOPs to ensure the timely
submission of all necessary regulatory
documents and information.
• To avoid potential issues with the relevant
authorities, our finance team provides regular
updates to our marketing team on countries
under sanctions or considered high-risk.
• In pursuit of sound corporate governance, we
have put policies and procedures in place to
prevent potential fraud and bribery practices
throughout the Group.
• IT personnel specifically ensure compliance
with local and international data protection
regulations.
Snapshot of FY2023, page 17
READ
MORE
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 61
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
GCB's transformation from a small, local cocoa trader to the world's 4th largest cocoa grinding company can be attributed
to our steadfast development of comprehensive growth strategies that steer our collective expansion efforts across the
Group. These strategies evolve over time, mirroring our advancements within the industry and adaptation to the changing
landscape of global priorities.
Despite having solidified our position as a significant player in the global cocoa industry, our aspirations for growth
remain robust. Accordingly, we will continue to rely on the following three core growth strategies that capitalise on our
competitive advantages, unlocking steady growth that solidifies our standing as an innovative and responsible industry
leader with an ever-expanding global footprint and product portfolio.
Growth & Expansion
Timeframe
Competitive
Advantages
Business
Strategies
Medium-term
Expanding globally into the US, UK, Europe and Côte d'Ivoire to unlock economies of scale.
Strategically placing our production facilities and operations within the largest chocolate-
consuming and producing markets, optimising our growth prospects in these regions.
Increasing our annual cocoa grinding capacity to 330,000 MT through our cocoa grinding facilities
in Pasir Gudang (Malaysia), Batam (Indonesia) and San Pedro (Côte d'Ivoire).
Expanding our industrial chocolate capacity to 116,000 MT through our industrial chocolate
manufacturing facilities in Mannheim (Germany) and Suffolk (the UK).
Utilising our production facilities in Delaware and New Jersey, US, to bolster our cocoa cake
grinding, cocoa liquor and butter melting, and cocoa butter deodorising capabilities.
Leveraging SCHOKINAG in Germany and GCBCUK in the UK for expansion in the European
industrial chocolate market segment.
Benefitting from "close to source" and "close to market" expansion policies through our Côte
d'Ivoire facility.
Directly sourcing premium cocoa beans for a shorter bean-to-ingredient cycle, thereby
significantly reducing supply chain risks and enhancing control over production and logistics.
Cultivating a diverse global customer base and maintaining strong supplier and customer
relationships to ensure a stable cocoa bean supply and flexible, timely shipments to our customers.
Monitoring favourable future expansion opportunities to gain more dominance in strategic
international cocoa-derived ingredients and industrial chocolate markets.
Remaining up-to-date with the latest relevant legal developments to ensure compliance with
laws and regulations in the respective jurisdictions where we operate.
Persistently exploring opportunities in new markets and cultivating mutually beneficial
relationships with customers worldwide.
Nurturing stability and harmony among all employees within the Group to promote a collective
mindset toward achieving overarching objectives and goals.
Assigning dedicated marketing personnel to engage with customers and better understand
their product requirements, thus empowering innovation that is tailored for specific customer
needs and which meets market demand.
Continuing to explore the possibility of expanding the production line at our Côte d'Ivoire
facility to meet growing customer demand.
Establishing controls and cost efficiency initiatives, including:
1. Maintaining direct control over cocoa bean quality and cost.
2. Administering direct sustainability programmes more extensively.
3. Shortening the bean-to-product cycle.
4. Developing cost-effective access to Europe and the US with lower logistic costs.
- Medium-term (1-3 years)
- Long-term (4-6 years)
GROWTH STRATEGIES
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
62
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Innovation
Timeframe
Competitive
Advantages
Business
Strategies
Medium- to long-term
Implementing innovative processes that enable us to continuously improve product quality.
Leveraging the strong capabilities of our process team to explore opportunities for adopting
advanced technology, streamlining production processes and improving efficiency.
Optimising our production facility layouts, machine run-time planning and production planning
systems to enhance production efficiency.
Providing a valuable one-stop product matching service, with our R&D team having successfully
developed cocoa liquor, cocoa powder and chocolate with a wide range of flavours and
characteristics for our customers.
Accumulating a vast amount of technical innovation and chocolate expertise that empowers
our market competitiveness and agility across various product and technology applications,
including:
1. Rapid development of tailor-made recipes for customers.
2. Adapting to the latest market trends, such as vegan or nut-free products.
3. Establishing a state-of-the-art pilot plant.
4. Utilising modern analytical devices and sensory panels.
Emphasising constant innovation as the key to maintaining market superiority, and committing
to ongoing R&D to ensure that our production facilities remain equipped to consistently
produce quality products.
Exploring the adoption of cutting-edge technologies to further improve, enhance or expand
our grinding capacity and production efficiency.
Fostering close working relationships between our in-house R&D team and customers to
promote cooperative development of new recipes and innovative products to address the
latter's latest requirements.
Proactively exploring and integrating the best manufacturing standards and systems to
effectively maintain or enhance product consistency and quality.
Improving our operations by streamlining our processes and exploring investments in new
machinery, thus speeding up the production of cocoa ingredients.
- Medium-term (1-3 years)
- Long-term (4-6 years)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 63
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Sustainability
Timeframe
Competitive
Advantages
Business
Strategies
Medium- to long-term
Harnessing internally generated cocoa shells and solar panels in our biomass boilers and solar
panels to generate renewable energy.
Prioritising the maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for all our employees.
Implementing established internal controls that aim to ensure that our supply chains remain
free from deforestation, child labour and other unethical practices.
Workingwithcriticalsupplierswhoachievedunsatisfactoryperformanceresultstocollaboratively
create action plans aimed at improving sustainable practices.
Leveraging career development programmes with our employees to gain valuable insights into
their needs and foster a culture of continuous professional development.
Utilising CSR initiatives to engage meaningfully with local communities and create positive
impacts.
Establishing controls to ensure our cocoa bean suppliers comply with regulatory standards
related to child labour, forced labour, deforestation and other key social and environmental
issues.
Inculcating corporate stewardship across business practices.
Persisting in implementing energy conservation initiatives while remaining vigilant for new
methods and technologies to reduce power consumption and improve energy efficiency.
Expanding the employment of experienced in-house personnel dedicated to optimising
processes for greater energy efficiency and a reduced carbon footprint.
Investing in the growth of our GC&B Programme in collaboration with our customers, leading
to the expansion of our Human Rights Due Diligence systems to cover more farmer households
and further address issues related to child and forced labour, and the implementation of
ongoing deforestation risk assessments.
Continuing our efforts to achieve traceable and sustainable cocoa-derived food ingredients
throughout our supply chain.
Maintaining the provision of professional development, training opportunities and a safe and
healthy work environment for all employees as a top priority.
Expanding our CBC initiatives across various subsidiaries to drive greater impacts.
- Medium-term (1-3 years)
- Long-term (4-6 years)
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
64
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Strategic Review
In FY2023, the Group achieved yet another milestone
by setting a new revenue record of RM5,320.8 million,
representing a robust 20.4% increase from the RM4,419.8
million achieved in the previous financial year. This growth
in revenue was primarily driven by higher selling prices of
cocoa ingredients and industrial chocolates, in line with the
upward trend in cocoa bean prices.
Despite the increase in revenue, our profit before tax eased
to RM139.1 million, compared to RM188.1 million in FY2022.
Our results were impacted by lower grinding margins and
elevated financing costs due to our need for increased
borrowings despite a high interest rate climate. However,
there was a positive development in our industrial chocolate
segment in Germany, which experienced improved margins
after rebounding from the impact of energy price volatility
in the previous year. In tandem with the lower profit before
tax, our net profit contracted to RM100.9 million from
RM147.4 million in the previous financial year.
The total assets of the Group stood at RM5,501.9 million as
of 31 December 2023, representing an increase of 50.3%
compared to RM3,660.4 million in the previous year. This
growth was primarily driven by a substantial increase in the
value of our inventories, which rose from RM1,589.2 million
to RM2,524.3 million due to higher cocoa bean prices.
Moreover, the addition of property, plant and equipment
assets, particularly in the UK, Germany and Côte d'Ivoire,
also contributed to the increase in total assets.
Meanwhile, the Group's total liabilities have increased to
RM3,749.1 million as of 31 December 2023, marking a rise
of 85.4% compared to RM2,021.8 million the previous year.
This increase can be mainly attributed to higher loans and
borrowings, driven by higher working capital requirements
necessitated by escalating cocoa bean prices.
Despite these challenges, our retained profits increased
from RM1,088.3 million in the previous year to RM1,165.9
million in FY2023, reflecting our continued profitability.
Furthermore, the Group's total shareholders' equity also
increased to RM1,752.8 million in FY2023, up by 7.0%
from RM1,638.6 million in the previous year. This increase
was driven by higher foreign reserves and retained profits.
However, due to heightened requirements for loans and
borrowings amidst the prevailing market conditions, our
net gearing ratio has unavoidably increased to 1.21 times
as of 31 December 2023.
Looking ahead, the Group remains vigilant in monitoring
global developments and adjusting its growth and pricing
strategies to ensure long-term sustainability. We continue
to prioritise the management of supplier and customer risks
while maintaining sufficient working capital to manage
increasing market risks.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 65
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Summarised Group Statements of Profit or Loss
and Other Comprehensive Income
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December (RM'000) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Revenue 2,941,630 3,684,985 3,923,297 4,419,839 5,320,841
EBITDA 332,820 349,273 292,595 308,973 359,952
Profit Before Tax 266,861 267,320 196,760 188,081 139,058
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent 217,948 222,709 154,838 147,410 100,926
Summarised Group Statements of Financial Position
As At 31 December (RM'000) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total Non-Current Assets 534,718 964,932 1,072,428 1,308,165 1,552,005
Total Current Assets 1,507,086 1,861,440 2,423,044 2,352,209 3,949,913
Total Assets 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472 3,660,374 5,501,918
Share Capital 220,407 263,236 297,059 495,237 495,237
Reserves 729,442 926,393 1,046,008 1,144,038 1,258,257
Treasury Shares (226) (720) (720) (720) (720)
Total Equity 949,623 1,188,909 1,342,347 1,638,555 1,752,774
Total Non-Current Liabilities 93,933 556,263 516,242 502,550 794,462
Total Current Liabilities 998,248 1,081,200 1,636,883 1,519,269 2,954,682
Total Liabilities 1,092,181 1,637,463 2,153,125 2,021,819 3,749,144
Total Equity and Liabilities 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472 3,660,374 5,501,918
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
66
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Strategic Review
Summarised Group Statements of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December (RM'000) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Operating Profit Before Changes in Working Capital 330,050 338,739 277,912 345,949 71,946
Net Cash (Used In)/From Operating Activities (93,699) 91,052 (79,134) 277,708 (736,583)
Net Cash Used In Investing Activities (62,068) (321,221) (164,591) (274,048) (239,238)
Net Cash From/(Used In) Financing Activities 157,626 254,771 241,231 (14,386) 984,092
Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and
Cash Equivalents 1,714 25,266 (5,446) (5,629) 6,934
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of
Financial Year 31,358 33,072 58,338 52,892 47,263
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of
Financial Year1 33,072 58,338 52,892 47,263 54,197
Note:
1 Including the effect on exchange rate differences.
Financial Analysis 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
EBITDA Margin 11.31% 9.48% 7.46% 6.99% 6.76%
PBT Margin 9.07% 7.25% 5.02% 4.26% 2.61%
Net Profit Margin 7.41% 6.04% 3.95% 3.34% 1.90%
Free Cash Flow (RM'000) (156,229) (312,302) (243,321) 3,829 (965,457)
ROE 23.00% 18.73% 11.53% 9.00% 5.76%
ROA 10.70% 7.88% 4.43% 4.03% 1.83%
EPS (sen) 22.51 21.82 14.86 13.52 8.59
Net Dividends Per Share (sen) 3.58 3.54 4.04 3.52 2.00
Payout Ratio 15.89% 16.22% 27.19% 26.04% 23.28%
Cash and Bank Balances (RM'000) 46,790 78,210 73,809 69,111 85,094
Total Borrowings (RM'000)1 683,493 1,048,637 1,302,285 1,186,752 2,210,413
Gearing (net of cash) 0.67 0.82 0.92 0.68 1.21
Note:
1 Including lease liabilities owing to financial institutions.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 67
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
ROE
23.00%
18.73%
11.53% 9.00%
5.76%
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
5.76% ROA
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
1.83%
10.70%
7.88%
4.43% 4.03%
1.83%
Revenue (RM'000)
RM 5,320,841
2,941,630
3,684,985
3,923,297
4,419,839
5,320,841
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
EBITDA (RM'000)
RM 359,952
332,820
349,273
292,595
308,973
359,952
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
PBT (RM'000)
RM 139,058
266,861
267,320
196,760
188,081
139,058
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
Net Profit (RM'000)
RM 100,926
217,948
222,709
154,838
147,410
100,926
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
Total Assets (RM'000)
RM 5,501,918
2,041,804
2,826,372
3,495,472
3,660,374
5,501,918
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
Shareholders' Equity (RM'000)
RM 1,752,774
949,623
1,188,909
1,342,347
1,638,555
1,752,774
2019 2021
2020 2022 2023
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
68
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Quarterly Analysis
For The Financial Year Ended 31 Dec (RM'000) 2022 2023 % Chg
Turnover
1st Quarter 990,527 1,102,485 11.30%
2nd Quarter 1,197,505 1,160,194 -3.12%
3rd Quarter 1,100,499 1,285,906 16.85%
4th Quarter 1,131,308 1,772,256 56.66%
4,419,839 5,320,841 20.39%
Net Profit
1st Quarter 53,269 23,756 -55.40%
2nd Quarter 44,610 28,125 -36.95%
3rd Quarter 30,756 33,876 10.14%
4th Quarter 18,775 15,169 -19.21%
147,410 100,926 -31.53%
Quarterly Revenue (RM'000)
2,000,000
1,600,000
1,200,000
800,000
400,000
0
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
2022
2023
Quarterly Net Profit (RM'000)
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
2022
2023
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023 69
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
FY2023 presented a variety of
unprecedented challenges, highlighted
by the cocoa price surge due to harvests
being affected by ongoing wet weather in
the key West Africa region. Despite these
obstacles, we successfully leveraged our
fundamental strategies to navigate the
year with resilience.
The Group's financial performance
improved, with revenue increased
by 20.4% from RM4,419.8 million to
RM5,320.8 million. In line with revenue,
EBITDA improved by 16.5% to RM360.0
million but profit before tax suffered a
reduction due to high financing costs as
a result of rising interest rates and higher
borrowings.
Operational hurdles, including container
shortages, freight costs and other
pandemic-induced challenges, largely
abated in FY2023. Consequently, our
production capacity and utilisation rates
have significantly improved, illustrating
our dedication to efficiency and
productivity.
The successful conclusion of our
debottlenecking project at SSIG, combined
with enhanced productivity from GCBCUK,
has significantly boosted our annual
industrial chocolate capacity by 21,000 MT,
reaching a total of 116,000 MT.
We also maintained an impressive
machinery utilisation rate of 95% during
the year, ensuring sustained productivity
even during the most challenging
circumstances. This achievement was
coupled with a 0% fatality rate in FY2023,
reaffirming our unwavering commitment
to the safety of our workforce.
The past twelve months have highlighted
the agility and resilience of our business,
showcasing our ability to persevere and
grow amidst a sub-optimal operating
environment. As we move forward, we
remain committed to refining practices
across our five core operational areas to
achieve robust growth and sustainability
objectives.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OUR 5 CORE OPERATIONAL AREAS:
• Comply with evolving global sustainability trends and requirements
• Reduce our reliance on non-renewable energy by tapping into renewable energy
sources, aiming to reduce carbon emissions. GCB has continued utilising biomass
boilers that generate steam from cocoa shells to fulfil heat requirements for our
processes. Our Group has also installed a 2.19 MWp solar system to decrease
dependence on carbon-intensive energy sources
• Continue exploring the availability of green technology in the market
• Implement a systematic machine monitoring and control system to maintain
energy and water efficiencies for our operating equipment
• Focus on improving ESG practices across our six sustainability workstreams:
Caring Beyond Cocoa, Circular Economy, Climate Action, Responsible Sourcing,
Corporate Stewardship and Human Rights
Embedding sustainability in our supply chain
Sustainable Sourcing Practices, page 98
READ
MORE
• Ensure the use of only high-quality cocoa beans in our production
• Uphold our customers' trust and confidence by ensuring that all our products
comply with global food safety standards, guidelines as well as relevant laws
and regulations, along with our stringent internal quality control requirements
• Maintain a firm commitment to never compromise on the quality and reliability of
our products
• Foster a quality mindset to manufacture products trusted and preferred by our
customers
• Improve quality management through consistent reviews of our products
• Embed effective supervision and communication throughout our production
processes
• Enable enhanced monitoring of our production processes through a
comprehensive camera inspection system
• Track, investigate and take corrective actions on customer complaints and
product returns related to food safety
• Conduct regular training sessions to familiarise our employees with food
handling, quality and food safety best practices
Safeguarding our products’ quality and reliability
Snapshot of FY2023, page 17
READ
MORE
OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
70
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
• Acknowledge the fundamental role of our people in executing processes and procedures to produce our products
• Ensure our production processes comply with global health and safety standards to maintain a safe environment for our people
• Leverage new technologies to reduce the risk of injuries and accidents, including lifting manipulators and automated palletisers
• Commit to achieve higher standards in machine safety to protect our people by continuously improving machine handling protocols
and safety intervention features
• Provide avenues for our people to report safety-related issues through accessible reporting platforms throughout the Group, making
it easier to raise concerns and share feedback
• Organise trainings and briefings, such as yearly refresher sessions for all employees on occupational safety, to maintain adherence
• Implement all necessary safety measures across our offices, manufacturing sites and warehouses, such as displaying visual safety-
related signs at strategic locations within our operating premises
• Uphold hygiene practices, such as frequent hand washing and compulsory sanitisation routines
• Deploy teams that specialise in specific skill sets to maximise productivity
• Uphold our zero-fatality track record
Maintaining high levels of health and safety
Empowering Our People, page 118
READ
MORE
OUR 5 CORE OPERATIONAL AREAS: (CONT'D.)
• Adopt the use of robotic arms in our packaging line
• Establish digitalised systems for production planning and processes
• Implement a proper preventive maintenance schedule with sufficient spare parts inventory
• Optimise productivity through appropriate production planning with a sufficient number of trained personnel
Integrating technology to enhance efficiency and effectiveness to fulfil customers’ demand
• Provide on-the-job training and promote continuous professional development for all employees
• Enhance the skills of our operation workers, especially in terms of specialised operational tasks, to increase productivity
• Empower a dynamic senior management team that provides guidance and coaching to the next generation of leaders, aiming to
propel GCB towards our vision, growth and operational objectives
Developing skills and knowledge
Diversity & Inclusion, page 112
READ
MORE
Product Quality & Safety, page 120
READ
MORE
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
