GUAN CHONG BERHAD STATEMENT FROM LEADER
Integrated Annual Report 2022
38
GUAN CHONG BERHAD STATEMENT FROM LEADER
Integrated Annual Report 2022
38
Directors’ Profile
TAN PUI SUANG
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Malaysian 52 Female
Tan Pui Suang was appointed as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of GCB on 27 February 2023.
She is a FCCA and a member of the MIA. She brings
to the Group extensive corporate experience in the
areas of corporate finance and planning, financial
managementandauditing.Currently,sheistheDirector
of Finance and Corporate Services of University of
Reading, Malaysia, and is also an Independent Non-
Executive Director of VS Industry Berhad, a company
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Securities Malaysia
Berhad.
She has held numerous notable positions in her past,
including her appointment as the Asia Pacific Regional
Operations Controller with TechnipFMC Asia Pacific,
which is a multinational oil and gas services group
listed on both the NYSE and EN-Paris, as well as being
the Corporate Planning Manager with Malaysia Marine
and Heavy Engineering Holdings Berhad, a company
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, along with holding Senior Audit positions in
Deloitte & Touche in Singapore.
She was appointed as a member of the Company’s
Audit Committee on 5 April 2023. She has no
family relationship with any director and/or major
shareholder of the Company, nor does she have any
conflict of interest with the Company. She has not
been convicted for any offences within the past 5
years.
As she was appointed to the Board on 27 February
2023, she did not attend any board meeting held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
AC
GUAN CHONG BERHAD STATEMENT FROM LEADER
Integrated Annual Report 2022
39
TAY HOW YEH
Director
TAY SEE MIN
Commercial Director
Tay How Yeh was appointed as the Director of GCCM
in January 2003. He is currently also the Director of
GCBCS and GCBCM.
He graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Business
Administration from the College of Business
Administration of the University of Toledo, US, in 1989.
From 1990 to 1995, he served as Manager of GCT,
where he was assigned the task of sourcing cocoa
beans in Tawau, Sabah. Over the years, he has gained
considerable experience in logistics and cocoa beans
quality assessment.
Since joining GCCM in 1995 as a Production Manager,
he has been in charge of the production department
and has assisted in production capacity expansion,
production planning and quality control. In 2008,
he was appointed as the Production and Operation
Manager of GCBF, responsible for managing
production planning, raw material procurement,
inventory control and quality control. Currently, he
focuses on overseeing the operations of GCBCCI.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
is the cousin of Tay Hoe Lian, the Managing Director,
CEO and shareholder of the Company, and brother of
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director
and shareholder of the company. He does not have
any conflict of interest with the Company and has
not been convicted for any offences within the past
5 years.
Tay See Min was appointed as the Commercial Director
of GCBCS on 10 December 2010. She graduated
with a Bachelor in Information System from Monash
University, Australia, in 1993. Upon graduation, she
worked in the IT profession and was last associated
with American International Assurance ("AIA") as an IT
Manager. Since joining GCCM, she has been actively
involved in trading cocoa beans as well as the sales
and marketing of cocoa products. In 2012, she was
appointed to be in charge of the Indonesian Market and
has successfully set up a trading company in Jakarta,
namely GCBCI. Since then, she has been managing
the subsidiary and has successfully expanded the
customer base in Indonesia.
She currently oversees the commercial and IT
functions of the Group, and also leads the ERM,
Corporate Governance, Sustainability, CSR and
Corporate Communications committees. She is
actively involved in corporate strategic planning and
project management, focusing primarily on expansion
and investment opportunities, especially in Côte
d’Ivoire and the European region. She also leads the
project to automate IT systems across the Group.
In October 2022, she was appointed as the Director of
GCBUKP, the newly set up subsidiary in the UK, which
is a property management company.
She is not a director of any other public company. She
is the sister of Tay Hoe Lian, the Managing Director,
CEO and shareholder of the Company and cousin of
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director
and shareholder of the Company. She does not have
any conflict of interest with the Company and has
not been convicted for any offences within the past
5 years.
Malaysian 57 Male Malaysian 51 Female
Profile of Key Senior Management
GUAN CHONG BERHAD STATEMENT FROM LEADER
Integrated Annual Report 2022
40
EDGAR ALEXANDER BITTONG
President of Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
Edgar Alexander Bittong was appointed as the
President of Carlyle in June 2020. He obtained a
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering from
the University of Central Florida in 2007. He started
his career in 2008 with PLOT Enterprise Ghana
Limited as a Site Engineer, responsible for oversight of
machine installations, civil works and factory building
construction. He was subsequently promoted to
Production Manager in 2009 and managed the factory
operations to ensure steady throughput, as well as
oversaw plant improvements to enhance efficiency.
He joined Euromar Commodities GmbH as Process
Engineer in 2011, moving on to the role of Project
Engineer in the subsequent year. Over the years, he
has gained extensive knowledge and experience
in designing building layouts, project management
and planning, enabling him to ensure continuous
production efficiency improvements. He then worked
for Cocoa Services LLC as a Production Manager in
2013 before being promoted to Plant Manager in 2016.
He joined Carlyle in March 2018 as Vice President
followingtheassetacquisitionofCocoaServicesLLCby
Carlyle. He has been working on growth management,
staff development, and sales improvement of the
Company’s Delaware and Swedesboro factories.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years.
German 39 Male
YAU TEE WAN
Senior Operation Manager
Yau Tee Wan was appointed as the Senior Operation
Manager of GCCM on 01 January 2012. He graduated
with a Bachelor of Physics from University of Malaya
in 1997. Upon graduation, he joined Dunham Bush
Sdn Bhd as a R&D Engineer and was responsible for
the research and development of air conditioning
equipment. Subsequently, he worked with Mewaholeo
Industries Sdn Bhd as a Senior Production Executive,
specialising in the overall production of specialty fats,
including frying oil, margarine and shortening, before
he left the job for the position of Maintenance Manager
in GCCM on 18 March 2002. He was promoted to the
position of Operation Manager in 2005, and later to
Group Operating Manager in 2010.
He currently oversees the operations of all
manufacturing facilities of the Group, including
GCCM, GCBCM, GCBF, ACI and SCHOKINAG,
ensuring that they achieve maximum efficiency, high
production yields and low processing costs. He leads
and oversees the team that manages the construction
and development of our ongoing expansion projects
in Côte d’Ivoire and the United Kingdom.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years.
Malaysian 50 Male
Profile of Key Senior Management
GUAN CHONG BERHAD STATEMENT FROM LEADER
Integrated Annual Report 2022
41
Profile of Key Senior Management
WOONG YOKE MUN
Group QA Manager
TING BING KEH
Operation Manager
Woong Yoke Mun was appointed as the Quality
Manager of GCCM on 01 January 2018. She obtained
her Bachelor of Engineering with Honours (Chemical
Engineering) from University Malaysia Sabah in 2005.
She started her career with GCCM as Quality Executive
on 18 April 2005 and has accrued 18 years of extensive
experience in maintaining and managing the quality
assurance, quality control and food safety and
regulatory affairs of the company. She was promoted
to the position of Assistant Quality Manager in 2012
and subsequently to Quality Manager on 01 January
2018, where she oversaw the quality control of raw
materials as well as the finished products of GCCM,
GCBF, GCBCM and ACI.
She was promoted to the position of Group QA
Manager on 1 January 2023 and appointed as Key
Senior Management on 27 February 2023, with some
of her key responsibilities being to administer the
development and implementation of food safety
and sanitation programs under Foods Safety Quality
Management System, while managing our training
and certification program to ensure global regulatory
compliance.
She is not a director of any other public company.
She has no family relationship with any director of the
Company nor does she have any conflict of interest
with the Company. She has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years.
Ting Bing Keh was appointed as the Operation
Manager of GCCM in January 2015. He obtained his
Bachelor of Engineering with Honours (Chemical
Engineering) from University Sains Malaysia in 2001.
He began his career with GCCM two decades ago
when he was hired as a Maintenance Executive in May
2003, and was subsequently promoted to Assistant
Manager in 2008 and Maintenance Manager in 2010.
He gained valuable experience being in charge of all
ongoing maintenance, improvement and expansion
projects undertaken by the management. His
close work with the quality control and production
departments helped to ensure the plant could run
smoothly and under optimal conditions.
He was promoted to his current position of Operation
Manager and appointed as Key Senior Management
on 27 February 2023. He presently bears responsibility
for overall production and maintenance management,
ensuring compliance to health and safety
requirements, overseeing operational cost control, as
well as planning and implementing all expansion and
improvement projects.
He is not a director of any other public company. He
has no family relationship with any director of the
Company, nor does he have any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years.
Malaysian 42 Female Malaysian 46 Male
Management Discussion & Analysis
MARKET OVERVIEW
Despite global concerns about the economic
impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the
global demand for chocolate remained
strong, as demonstrated by the increase in
grinding worldwide. According to regional
cocoa associations, total grinding in FY2022
rose to 3.5 million MT from 3.4 million MT in
the previous year.
The reopening of global borders, increased air travel,
and tourism also contributed to the growth in chocolate
consumption in FY2022. The chocolate market is expected
to continue its growth trend, with Euromonitor International
forecasting it to reach a global retail sales value of $128
billion by the end of 2023, with a cumulative average
growth rate of 1.9% in volume over the next three years to
2025.
There are, however, various macroeconomic factors that
created a challenging market environment for GCB in
2022. The European and UK region has experienced rising
energy costs, which caused by the energy crisis as a result
of Russia-Ukraine conflict.
Global inflationary pressure have been causing interest
rate hike. The company foresees that interest rates may
continue to rise due to the uncertain economic outlook.
Simultaneously, the gloomy global outlook may weigh on
discretionary spending as high household debt-servicing
costs restrict the disposable income of customers.
Moreover, the expected economic recession poses other
significant challenges. The combination of inflation, higher
interest rates, and rising commodity prices is likely to result
in a slowdown of the global economy.
While chocolate is considered a recession-resistant industry
as people tend to indulge in small affordable luxuries while
cutting back on other spending, demand will ultimately
still depend on the overall economic environment and
the extent of broader cost-of-living pressures such as
increasing food prices and housing costs.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
42
Strategic Review
Management Discussion & Analysis
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
43
OUTLOOK
While the Group cannot control external factors, we
will strive to navigate through the headwinds to ensure
that our operations remain focused on seizing business
opportunities, meeting customer demand, and generating
sustainable profits to support our growth objectives.
Côte d'Ivoire presence brings us ‘close to source’ and
‘close to market’
GCB's expansion into Côte d'Ivoire, the world's largest
cocoa bean supplying country, has brought us closer to
the source of cocoa beans and enables us to implement
sustainability projects commencing from the procurement
of cocoa beans. This expansion into a strategic location
will improved our cost-effectiveness in reaching out to
key chocolate-consuming countries in Europe and the UK,
where most of our customers are based. The new facility in
Côte d'Ivoire will be a boost for the Group's earnings and
will catapult our strength as a global player in the chocolate
supply chain.
Relying on our established fundamental to meet
stakeholder expectations
To ensure we continue to meet and surpass the expectations
of all our various stakeholders, we have identified the key
focus areas of profitability, reliability, business stability, and
market share in which we will seek progress. For our cocoa
processing operations in key grinding countries, we intend
to increase our production capacity and the quality of our
products. We will also strive to improve the sustainability of
cocoa and fortify our commitment to ESG considerations
across our operations to address growing interest within
our customer base.
We have a lot of potential for capacity driven growth and
our expansion into new regions such as Côte d'Ivoire,
Germany and the UK since 2019 is a prime reflection of
our ambitious plans for long term growth. At the same
time, our global expansion has unlocked opportunities that
can complement and add value to our core business of
producing cocoa-derived food ingredients.
A prime example of this is the integration of our business
into industrial chocolate production. Our utilization of
internally produced cocoa-derived food ingredients to
produce industrial chocolate at our Germany production
facility has enabled us to form a complete internal supply
chain and benefit from cost efficiencies. We can now also
leverage upon our presence and production facility in
Europe to begin marking our products as "Made in Europe",
which will boost our ability to penetrate new markets with
high demand for European chocolate in future.
Taken together, the abovementioned strategies enable us
to not only meet our key customers' requirements but has
also empowered us to cohesively address their expectations
on four primary fronts, namely building a global supply
chain presence, enhancing cost-effectiveness, increasing
ESG considerations, and adopting greater sustainability
practices.
Ready to combat the challenges of recession and rising
costs
High interest rates and inflation are impacting household
spending power. While we anticipate a stable demand
for cocoa and chocolate products in the short term, we
are braced for a challenging year ahead due to potential
recession risks in major global economies. Although
chocolate is a relatively recession-resistant product, a
decrease in consumer purchasing power might impact
demand.
To this end, we will continue to rely on our strong
fundamental strategies to equip ourselves for future
challenges. Our emphasis will remain on key operational
objectives, which include maintaining high utilization of
our cocoa grinding facility, optimizing our cost efficiency,
adapting and responding agilely towards changes in
the cocoa business, integrating forward thinking in our
strategic planning as well as conducting business ethically
and responsibly.
We will proactively monitor and manage our operating costs
and potential risks in order to maintain our competitiveness
and develop greater stability and efficiency within our supply
chain, which will be imperative in weathering uncertain
global economic conditions. With these fundamentals in
place, we can focus on our three core growth strategies of
expansion, sustainability and innovation to fully capitalise
on enhanced cost efficiencies and capture a greater share
of the global cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolate
market.
Strategic Review
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
44
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
To demonstrate the value that our business model creates, we have clearly delineated how we mindfully utilise and leverage on
each of our Six Capitals to undertake business activities and strategies that effectively generate favourable business outputs, grow
our reputation and empower our continued expansion within the global cocoa-derived ingredient and chocolate industry. Within
our Value Creation Business Model below, we further establish how our strategies and activities successfully contribute towards
the meaningful and tangible outcomes we continue to deliver to our stakeholders.
INPUTS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Financial Capital
• Our consistently strong and
stable financial position
• Share capital
• Shareholders’ equity
• Borrowings
• Access to debt and capital
markets
Intellectual Capital
• Our innovative processes and
technologies
• Our brand value, reputation and
market experience as the fourth
largest cocoa grinder in the world
• Our energy management and
data collection systems
Procurement
We work closely with suppliers to ensure
that our cocoa beans meet global quality,
environmental and social standards in
addition to our own stringent internal
standards.
Quality Assurance
(Products & Processes)
We have implemented a standardised safety
production process and system, in accordance
with international food and safety related
standards.
Manufactured Capital
Our existing production facilities:
• Pasir Gudang, Malaysia (2)
• Batam, Indonesia (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
• Delaware, United States (1)
• Swedesboro, United States (1)
• San Pedro, Côte d'Ivoire (1)
Our production facilities under
construction:
• Suffolk, United Kingdom (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
Production
We strive to maintain eco-efficient production
processes that produce high quality cocoa
products and provide the maximum benefit to
our customers while minimising any potential
environmental impact.
Our Vision
To Be The Preferred
Cocoa & Chocolate
Ingredients Supplier
Our Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are
committed to delivering
quality cocoa and
chocolates while offering
utmost flexibility and
attention. Through
forming strong alliances
with local partners, we
are dedicated to serving
our customers worldwide
and growing together
with them in long-term
partnerships.
Read more:
Our Vision, Mission,
Values & Promises,
page 22
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
45
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
OUTPUTS
• Cash and bank balance: RM47.3 million
• Revenue: RM4.4 billion
• Net profit: RM147.4 million
• Share capital: RM495.2 million
• Shareholders' equity: RM1.6 billion
• Earnings per share: 13.52 sen
• Net dividends per share: 3.52 sen
• Total borrowings: RM1.2 billion
• Net gearing ratio: 0.68 times
Read more:
Financial Statements, page 155
Our current capacity:
• Existing production facilities:
- Cocoa Grinding: 337,000 MT
- Value Added: 99,000 MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 95,000 MT
• Production facilities under construction:
- Industrial Chocolate: 21,000 MT
Read more:
Where We Operate, page 12
• Increased usage of advanced machinery and
technology that reduce our reliance on non-
renewable energy sources
• Increased usage of solar panels and biomass
machines for energy generation, resulting in an
improvement to our net energy consumption
• Adoption and implementation of relevant
international standards in producing high
quality cocoa related products
• Monitoring of energy usage by measuring kWh
consumed per MT of cocoa beans processed,
with the objective of achieving a tangible
reduction in our overall energy consumption
Read more:
Our Non-Financial Performance,
page 18 & Tackling Climate Change:
Energy & Emissions, page 106
OUTCOMES
Our Promises
• Full Product Range
• Product Quality and
Safety
• Competitive Prices
• Flexibility and
Excellence in
Customer Service
• Technical Support and
Innovation
• Ethical Operation
Customers
• Strong collaborative relationships with
our customers that are nurtured by our
continuous fulfilment of their volume and
quality requirements
• Continual expansion of our footprint in
Asian and European markets to expand
our reach
Shareholders & Investors
• Maintaining a consistently healthy
financial position
• Ensuring growing value is consistently
generated through sustained capital
appreciation and dividend payouts
Suppliers & Contractors
• Consistent growth in our base of quality
suppliers
• Active promotion of social and
environmental responsibilities across our
cocoa bean supply chain
• Ongoing collaboration and
communication with suppliers to ensure
the use of high-quality raw materials and
the most advanced technology
Our Values
• Grit
• Ambition
• Sincerity
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
46
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
INPUTS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Human Capital
• Our strong and diverse Board,
supported by our corporate
governance structure
• Our experienced and diverse pool
of talent, which encompasses top
management as well as general
staff (1,594 employees)
Natural Capital
• The cocoa beans we utilise, which
are supplied from Southeast Asia,
Africa and South America
• The energy we consume in our
operations, including electricity,
gas and steam
• The solar energy we produce and
consume from the solar panels
we have installed Group-wide
• The steam we generate for heating
and the running of production
machines using residual cocoa
shells
• The water we consume in our
production activities
Sales & Marketing
Conscious of our responsibility to consumers
and society as a whole, we leverage on our
expertise, experience and processes to
produce and sell high quality cocoa products
that meet or surpass their expectations. We
also consistently seek feedback from relevant
parties to harness continuous improvement,
maintain long-term relationships and create
sustainable value for our customers and our
business.
Research & Development
We maximise the output and quality of our
products through concerted research and
development into enhancing our ability to utilise
resources responsibly in order to consistently
deliver innovative and environmentally friendly
products to our customers.
Social & Relationship Capital
• The strong and effective
relationships we maintain with
key stakeholders, including
our customers, shareholders/
investors, suppliers/contractors,
employees and governments/
regulators
• Group-wide policies governing
the sustainable business practices
across our supply chain
Distribution
We utilise a fully integrated and extensive
distribution system and network to ensure that
our products are efficiently distributed to our
customers. Simultaneously, we strive to minimise
negative environmental and social impacts by
managing our energy use and taking steps to
safeguard the safety of our personnel and local
communities.
Our Stakeholders
• Customers
• Shareholders &
Investors
• Suppliers & Contractors
• Employees
• Governments &
Regulators
Read more:
Key Stakeholders
Engagement,
page 48
Material Matters
• Product footprint,
pricing and quality
• Sustainable operational
performance and
expansion
• Responsible and ethical
suppliers
• Talent attraction,
development and
retention
• Governance and
compliance
Read more:
Material Matters,
page 52
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
47
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
OUTPUTS
• A more diverse Board, which nevertheless
deliverstherequisiteknowledgeandexperience
in key areas such as risk assessment, strategic
planning, succession planning, financial and
operational management and more
• 100% of our employees are trained on the
latest occupational health and safety practices
• RM142.1 million was distributed in FY2022 for
directors’ and employees' remuneration and
benefits
• A succession planning policy and procedure,
along with a successor readiness program, has
been implemented to cultivate talent
Read more:
Financial Statements, page 155 &
Providing a Conducive Workplace:
Occupational Health and Safety, page 122
• Continued expansion in awareness of
sustainable business practices amongst our
stakeholders
• RM31,124 contributed to the local communities
• RM52.4 million contributed in income taxes
Read more:
Growing Sustainably: Economic
Performance, page 93
• The high-quality cocoa beans we purchase
• The energy we consumed in FY2022:
• Electricity: 409,527 GJ
• Natural Gas: 381,016 GJ
• Steam purchased: 17,976 GJ
• Solar energy: 6,991 GJ
• Steam generated from cocoa shells: 105,547
GJ
• Total installed capacity of 2,190 kWp of
renewable energy at our production facility
(due to installation of 4,639 solar panels)
• Biomass boilers that use residual cocoa shells
from our production activities and solar
panels generated 112,537 GJ of renewable
energy
• The volume of treated water discharged:
1,020 ML
Read more:
Tackling Climate Change:
Energy & Emissions, page 106
& Conscious Water Management:
Water and Effluents, page 111
OUTCOMES
Risks
• Competitive risk
• Expansion and liquidity
risk
• Cocoa bean supply risk
• Human workforce risk
• Compliance risk
Read more:
Key Risks &
Mitigation Actions,
page 55
Employees
• Attraction and retention of a skilled and
competent work force through:
- Regular provision of training programs
that enhance relevant knowledge and
skills
- The upholding of the principles of non-
discrimination and equal opportunity,
as enshrined in the Code
- The promotion of diversity in the
workplace through equal opportunity
career advancement and hiring
practices
- The establishment of thorough
grievance procedures and a
whistleblowing policy
- Providing enhanced career progression
opportunities and an effective reward
system
• Ensuring a ready supply of internal
and external talents earmarked for
key positions to ensure agility and
preparedness in the event of a position
vacancy
• The adoption of various international
product quality and safety standards and
certifications
Read more:
Our Non-Financial Performance,
page 18
Governments & Regulators
• Continued contribution to the economies
in which we operate through sales of
goods and taxes paid
• Continued support of government
policies
• Continued involvement in key corporate
social responsibility activities
• Maintenance of a strong corporate
governance framework
Strategic
Priorities
• Growth/Expansion
• Sustainability
• Innovation
Read more:
Growth
Strategies,
page 60
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
48
• Maintaining consistent
communication and ensuring
adherence with quality,
shipment, delivery and other
requirements set forth within
sales contracts
• Safeguarding social and legal
compliance with international
standards such as Sedex,
while developing a long-term,
Group-wide sustainability
plan and publicly sharing
this commitment with our
customers
• Practicing knowledge-sharing
of ongoing and future market
trends with our customers
through weekly price updates
and regular communication to
keep them in the loop
• Working closely with our
customers to provide flexible
solutions that meet their
evolving needs, such as
technical support for product
development, which serves to
expand our market share and
product portfolio
• Preserving reliable always-
on communication channels
between customers, sales,
marketing and production
personnel
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
KEY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
We are committed towards gaining a deeper understanding of the needs and
motivations of our various stakeholders as it empowers us to continually develop
and improve upon our business strategies that create shared value. We achieve
this via regular undertaking of concerted and constructive engagement with
our stakeholders throughout the year. A summary of our ongoing efforts and
initiatives as at FY2022 are outlined in the table below.
Stakeholder
Groups
Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address
Their Expectations
Customers
By engaging with our
customers, we are able to
gain meaningful insights
into ongoing market
trends and the evolving
demands of our consumer
base.
These insights that we
gain support our ongoing
ability to continuously
deliver high quality
products that meet
or surpass customer
expectations while at
the same time guiding
our strategic investment
into the innovation
of new products and
enhancement of our
existing range to provide
greater value to our
customers.
Simultaneously, taking
the effort to engage with
our customers helps us
to nurture and sustain a
diversified base of loyal
customers that empowers
our consistent growth and
expansion.
• Calls and online
meetings
• Email communications
• Face-to-face
interactions
• Annual customer
surveys
• Our corporate website
• Customer feedback
channels
• Regular meetings and
plant visits
• Trade shows
• Conferences
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
49
• Maintaining continuous
communication between
management teams across
all departments in order to
collectively prioritise and attain
key investor expectations (e.g.
expansion plans, profit growth
and stability, dividends)
• Leaning on our corporate
governance practices to
ensure transparency and
accountability, mitigate the
occurrence of corporate
scandals, fraud and other
issues pertaining to corporate
liability, while at the same
time solidifying our rules,
policies and practices that are
vital to creating long-term
shareholder value
• Delivering consistent capital
appreciation and dividend
payouts
• Adopting Integrated Reporting
for the communication of our
Group’s vision, sustainability
efforts and corporate
governance in a cohesive
manner, with a focus on how
we plan to create and preserve
value in the long-term
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Stakeholder
Groups
Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address
Their Expectations
Shareholders
& Investors
Our engagements with
shareholders and investors
provide us with a deep
understanding of their
specific expectations and
empowers us to develop
strategies that consistently
deliver the growth and
capital appreciation that
they expect.
We always keep our
shareholders and
investors abreast of our
ongoing initiatives and
efforts to enhance our
corporate governance and
sustainability practices.
Our development of these
relationships will serve
to build their trust in our
business strategies and
give our shareholders the
confidence needed to fully
support our management
teams in attaining their
goals.
• Investor briefings and
other investor relations
engagements
• Our announcements on
Bursa Malaysia
• Our Annual General
Meeting
• Our IAR
• Our corporate website
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
50
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
• Setting clear expectations of
our supplier and contractor
relationships, defined through
KPIs, targets and best practices
in relation to product quality,
product delivery and supplier
payments
• Maintaining the highest ethical
standards in our procurement
processes, especially in relation
to environmental and social
issues
• Maintaining regular two-way
communication with our
suppliers and contractors
to stay abreast of the latest
market developments and
future trends while providing
updates on our strategic
plans, thereby enabling better
raw material and machinery
planning
• Upholding the channels of
communication between
suppliers and contractors with
the teams from our internal
departments, such as shipping,
trading, sales & marketing,
planning, production and
quality control, to ensure our
supply of cocoa beans remains
consistent and of high quality
• Conducting regular
performance reviews to
enhance and maintain the
quality of products delivered
Stakeholder
Groups
Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address
Their Expectations
It is vital to ensure the
consistent supply of raw
materials that meet our
quality requirements,
especially when it comes
to cocoa beans, which
accounts for nearly 95%
of our production inputs.
We thus engage closely
with our suppliers and
contractors to nurture a
well-oiled and dependable
supply chain.
Our engagement priorities
include to promote
adoption of the latest
machinery innovations
and updated packaging
materials, as well as to
encourage sustainable and
ethical business practices
across our supply chain.
Through the development
of healthy relationships
with our suppliers, we
put ourselves in a prime
position to receive the
best possible prices,
terms and services when
conducting business with
them.
• Calls and online
conferences
• Email communications
• Face-to-face
interactions
• Supplier and
contractors’ meetings
• Supplier evaluations
• Our Supplier Code of
Conduct
• Our corporate website
Suppliers &
Contractors
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
51
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
• Consistently recognising the
hard work of our employees
through fair and competitive
remuneration and rewards
• Providing professional
development and training
opportunities to enhance
the competencies of our
employees
• Embedding our corporate
vision, business direction and
growth plans at all levels,
thereby nurturing a greater
sense of belonging and a
workforce with a collective
purpose
• Maintain regular
communication through notice
boards, email announcements
and our corporate website
• Aligning our employee reward
system with our organisational
goals through performance
incentives
• Providing a safe and healthy
working environment that
meets high standards in
occupational safety and health
Stakeholder
Groups
Why We Engage How We Engage How We Address
Their Expectations
We derive many important
benefits from engaging
meaningfully with our
employees.
In doing so, we are able
to better understand their
needs and expectations,
we gain a greater
understanding of the
various skills and aptitudes
at our disposal, and we are
empowered to deploy our
human resources in the
most efficient manner to
harness sustainable growth.
At the same time, our
attunement to the
mindset and needs of our
employees enables us to
reward and retain talents
more effectively, allowing
us to build a workforce
that has the experience
and capabilities required to
maintain our competitive
advantage within the
industry.
• Monthly management
meetings
• Monthly Workers
Committee meetings
• Regular employee
meetings (daily,
weekly and monthly,
depending on job
profile)
• Employee appraisal
sessions
• Team building activities
• Regular, role-specific
training modules
Employees
• Providing government officials
and regulatory authorities with
the reports and information
they require in a timely manner
• Facilitating smooth audits and
site visits
• Deepening our involvement
in government-initiated
programs, such as those
pertaining to sustainable cocoa
• Contributing to the Malaysian
economy through payment of
income taxes
• Staying abreast of the legal and
regulatory changes through
internal knowledge teams
and engagement of external
advisors
• Supporting the sustainability
agenda of governments
through operation and product
innovations
Through frequent
engagements with
government agencies and
regulators, we are able to
effectively keep ourselves
abreast of evolving
laws and regulatory
frameworks, which plays a
crucial role in minimising
the risk of disruptions
to our multinational
operations.
Our healthy relationship
with regulatory bodies
places us in a stronger
position to maintain
compliance and deliver
effectively on our business
objectives.
• Regulator certifications
• Reports produced by
regulators
• Visits by government
officials and/or
regulatory agents
• Our announcements
on Bursa Malaysia and
statutory reporting
• Audits and assessments
• Seminars/webinars,
trainings sessions,
dialogues and forums
organised by the
regulatory bodies
Governments
& Regulators
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
52
Management Discussion & Analysis
MATERIAL MATTERS
Our material matters describe the issues and themes that are fundamental to our ability to generate value in the short-,
medium- and long-term. These topics are carefully determined via a stringent materiality determination process, and
we continuously evaluate these topics to ensure their continued relevance to our stakeholders, industry and countries in
which we operate. Where necessary, we update our strategies and approach in line with any new insights obtained.
Our Materiality Determination Process
IDENTIFICATION
Within the context of the Six
Capitals of the <IR> Framework,
we conduct internal analysis of
our business activities, industry
landscape and feedback gathered
from stakeholders in order to
ascertain the key matters that
may impact the financial and
non-financial performance of the
Group.
EVALUATION & PRIORITISATION
We evaluate the significance
of each topic via gaining an
understanding of their known or
potential impact on our ability to
generate value for our business
and meet the expectations of
our stakeholders. In FY2022, we
prioritised five material matters
upon which to focus the majority
of our efforts.
DETERMINATION
Having established our key
material matters, we undertake
an intensive exercise to determine
the relevant information that will
be disclosed within the scope
of each topic, while at the same
time setting the boundaries for
each material matter to guide our
subsequent reporting process.
Strategic Review
Product Footprint,
Pricing and Quality
Stakeholders involved
Capitals impacted
Growth strategies
Material Matters Description
• We recognise the importance of ensuring our products offer high consistency in
their quality, are traceable to the farm level and integrate sustainable features or
processes in their production
• We acknowledge that competitive pricing forms a key component of our brand
and product value in the eyes of our customers and we seek to maintain such
competitive price points
• We prioritise product safety first and above all else, and always maintain the strictest
compliance to food safety and other relevant regulations
• In addition to the above three key focus areas, for which our performance may
greatly impact our reputation, we also aim to preserve steady growth for the Group
in terms of capacity, market presence, product quality and innovation
• We have equipped ourselves with operational leaders that have a keen grasp of
ongoing advancement in machinery and technology, and our technical teams
consistently seek to improve and upgrade our machinery in line with our objectives.
Our innovation, configuration and modification of machinery is supported by careful
monitoring of performance data with the goal of achieving tangible improvements
to our flow of production and harnessing greater efficiencies in our processes and
procedures
• These collective efforts enable us to meet the discerning requirements of our
established global customers while maintaining our product outreach, pricing and
quality standards
Read more:
Operational Performance
Review, page 68
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
53
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Sustainable
Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Responsible and
Ethical Suppliers
Stakeholders involved
Stakeholders involved
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Growth strategies
Growth strategies
Material Matters Description
• Responsible and effective management of our resources places us in the best
position to maximise shareholder returns
• By maintaining our healthy performance in key financial metrics, we can gain the
confidence of existing investors and encourage potential new investors to place
trust in our growth plans
• We equally recognise the importance of minimising our risk exposure and building
resilience against price fluctuations in the commodity market
• To attain these goals, we will leverage on a strong, competent and ethical
management team that possesses the required experience and robust decision-
making skills to meet our strategic targets and preserve the confidence of our
stakeholders
• We acknowledge the importance of ensuring that our cocoa beans suppliers
only make purchases from farmers who strictly comply and adhere to regulatory
standards in relation to child labour, forced labour, deforestation and other key
social and environmental issues
• In addition to this, we expect our suppliers to value and commit to sustainable
practices in the supply of cocoa beans
• To play our part and set a leading example in environmental stewardship, we have
increasingly adopted more efficient machineries that meet our output requirements
at a lower energy consumption
• To boost adherence across our supply chain, we have established procedures that
enhance and support the ability of our suppliers to fulfil the quantity and quality
specification standards and food safety standards stipulated within their contracts
Read more:
Responsible Cocoa Supply Chain:
Procurement Practices, page 99
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
54
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders involved
Stakeholders involved
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Growth strategies
Growth strategies
Material Matters Description
• At the fundamental level, we appreciate the duty we bear to provide our employees
with healthy and safe workplaces, while promoting a culture mindful of work-life
balance
• We believe it is vital to reward our employees via a fair system that takes into account
the different levels and skillsets of employees across our business operations
• The continuous development of our employees is crucial for us to achieve our
shared goals as an organisation, and we have introduced the necessary training
initiatives to enhance the skills and knowledge of our workforce
• We are committed to forging greater diversity in our workforce, both in terms
of background as well as skillset, as a diverse pool of expertise and experiences
will enhance our ability to solve problems and address issues that our business
encounters
• Our priority on diversity is reflected in our management teams, which bring a variety
of skills, experiences and backgrounds to the table and empowers our agile and
capable approach to business management and global expansion
• We acknowledge the importance of providing career development opportunities
to foster dedication and loyalty amongst employees. We thus offer various types
of exposure and learning opportunities for all employees, and place emphasis on
internally promoting employees who have made considerable contributions to the
Group and are ready to assume a higher position. Staff are also provided the chance
to go on secondment in different departments or in other countries
• We have implemented comprehensive hiring processes that enable us to effectively
identify potential candidates that are ambitious and proactive, with a desire to build
their careers in tandem with the Group
• We have implemented a succession planning policy and procedure, along with a
successor readiness program to cultivate talent
• We remain cognizant of the central role strong corporate governance plays in
driving synergy within our value creation approach and ensuring our corporate
values remain aligned across all our business divisions and subsidiaries
• We are thus committed to maintaining full compliance with all legal requirements
and regulations, including areas such as ESG, product quality, food safety, Halal and
Kosher certifications, data protection and more, and have implemented various
actions and practices to safeguard adherence
• We further ensure compliance with industry and region-specific laws and regulations,
such as the tax and LID levies practiced within our respective import countries
• To uphold ongoing compliance at all times, we maintain a keen eye for any changes
to relevant laws and regulations that might impact our business operations within
the respective jurisdictions where we operate
Read more:
Our Non-Financial
Performance, page 18
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
55
Management Discussion & Analysis
KEY RISKS & MITIGATION ACTIONS
Comprehensive risk management procedures are vital for us to maintain and safeguard the sustainability of our large-scale
global operations. We have put into place an effective process to identify the risks that are most relevant to our business
operations and guide our approach in crafting mitigation strategies to limit our exposure. The following details our four risk
categories, our risk determination process and a risk matrix that prioritises the impact and likelihood of said risks.
Our Risk Categories:
Strategic
Risks primarily caused by events that are
external to the Group, but may significantly
impact on our strategic decisions or activities
Financial
Risks that have a direct financial impact on the
Group
Compliance
Non-compliance with laws and regulations in
the countries where the Group is in operation
may result in financial penalties, reputational
damage or even revocation of business licenses
Operational
Unfortunate events that have the potential
to disrupt our day-to-day operations and
processes
Our Risk Determination Process:
Our Risk Matrix:
1
2
3
4
5
0
0 1 2 3 4 5
Impact
Likelihood
1. Competitive Risk
2. Expansion and Liquidity Risk
3. Cocoa Bean Supply Risk
4. Human Workforce Risk
5. Compliance Risk
Risk Categories
 Strategic
 Operational
 Financial
 Compliance
1
2
3
4
5
Strategic Review
Risk Monitoring
and Reporting
Review, monitor
and report the
implementation
progress and results
of the mitigation
actions and action
plans
Risk
Treatment
Decide on the risk
controls, mitigation
actions and action
plans
Risk
Evaluation
Evaluate the existing
controls of risks to
derive the risk rating
Risk
Assessment
Determine the
likelihood and
assess the potential
impacts of the risks
Risk
Identification
Identify risks arising
from our operating
environment
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
56
Management Discussion & Analysis
Risks Category Description Mitigation Actions
Competitive Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Product Footprint,
Pricing and Quality
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Operational • Asglobalplayersinthecocoa
industry, we are always in
competition with others.
Failure to adopt the latest
production technologies
could negatively impact our
competitiveness, leading to
the loss of valued customers.
• However, it's crucial to
carefully consider and
deliberate the adoption
of new technologies, as
imprudent investments
may incur significant costs,
reduce profitability, and
harm our competitiveness.
• In addition, we must
remain vigilant about
potential health hazards
and inadequate processes
in our supply chain. These
issues can lead to customer
complaints, food safety
concerns, and damage to
our reputation.
• By establishing cocoa processing facilities
in Côte d'Ivoire, we gain direct access to a
better quality of raw materials in the world's
largest cocoa bean producing country.
This expansion also allows us to implement
sustainability projects that commence from
the procurement of sustainable beans.
As a result, we can improve operational
efficiency and cost-effectiveness across
our group, enhance our market position,
and increase competitiveness in the global
cocoa market.
• Expanding into the European and UK
markets puts us in a better position
to compete and maintain healthy
product margins. We're achieving this
by diversifying our customer segments
and targeting specific markets based
on their preferences and buying power.
Competitive pricing is also a priority, along
with establishing production facilities close
to key chocolate-consuming countries to
reduce freight costs significantly.
• To ensure high-quality standards and
mitigate against potential safety issues in
our supply chain, we have implemented
the ISO 22000: Food Safety Management
System and abide by the requirements of
FSSC 22000.
• We conduct due diligence assessments
before purchasing new machinery and
technology and employ experienced in-
house personnel to design efficient and
cost-saving machinery. Additionally, we
attend international exhibitions and engage
with machinery suppliers to stay updated
on the latest technological developments.
• We assign internal teams to engage with
customers and better understand their
product requirements, empowering
innovation tailored to their specific needs.
• We maintain good quality and reputation
through excellent customer relations and
management with large multinational
companies, demonstrating our ability to
work hand-in-hand with big names and
meet their stringent demands.
• We also prioritise innovative product
development to penetrate different market
segments.
Strategic Review
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
57
Management Discussion & Analysis
Risks Category Description Mitigation Actions
Expansion and
Liquidity Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Sustainable
Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Financial • Insufficient assessments
or other due diligence
measures can result in
significant financial costs
when executing our
expansion plans.
• As we expand globally into
Germany, the UK, and Côte
d'Ivoire, we must remain
cognizant of potential
geographical risks that may
arise when entering new
markets. These include
differences in market
conditions, social and
cultural practices, as well as
business processes.
• Matching our product sales
and bean purchases to
our production capacity
is essential, and we must
strictly monitor our cash
flow to avoid deficits.
• We are also vulnerable
to price fluctuations due
to bean terminal market
movements, which can
negatively impact our
margins and profits.
• Our strategy for addressing workforce
challenges involves nurturing a balanced
mix of local hires and experienced
personnel from Malaysia and Indonesia
to lead the set-up. To ensure a smooth
integration of operations, we draw on our
wealth of experience gained from previous
expansions into Indonesia and the US.
• To minimize the risks associated with
inadequately planned expansions, we
focus our efforts on expanding our core
areas of expertise, which include bean
grinding and industrial chocolate.
• Prior to making any decisions about
expanding into a new country, we evaluate
a set of predefined criteria that includes
political issues, strategic value of the
location, government incentives, long-
term supply, quality issues, environmental
issues, and other relevant factors.
• To mitigate cash flow risks, we regularly
monitor marketing and trading positions
and report our findings in a timely manner
to facilitate strategic business decisions.
• We undertake working capital forecasts and
bean inventory forecasts on a consistent
basis to ensure sufficient cash flow.
• We closely monitor and manage our
gearing ratio to ensure that we have
adequate reserves available for expansion
projects. We also undertake detailed
project forecasts to ensure sufficient
financing is available for each project.
• We leverage on hedging contracts to
mitigate price fluctuation risks.
Strategic Review
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
58
Management Discussion & Analysis
Risks Category Description Mitigation Actions
Cocoa Bean Supply
Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Responsible and
Ethical Suppliers
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Strategic If our suppliers fail to comply
in our Supplier Code of
Conduct, which prohibits any
engagement in illegal activities
such as deforestation or child
labor, we could face scrutiny
from global unions, boycotts of
our products in the market, and
damage to our reputation.
• We conduct thorough background checks
on all new suppliers before engaging in
business with them and avoid working with
suppliers who lack an established company
background or portfolio.
• We require all of our suppliers to sign
and comply with our Supplier Code of
Conduct, which outlines our expectations
regarding ethical and sustainable practices.
• In order to ensure that our suppliers adhere
to our standards, we regularly conduct
supplier audits. If the results of an audit
are unsatisfactory, we request detailed
evidence to address any issues.
• Our procurement procedures prioritise
sustainability and ethical sourcing. We
work closely with our suppliers on action
plans to improve their sourcing processes
and promote sustainability throughout the
supply chain.
Human Workforce
Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Operational • Inadequate evaluation of
job candidates can result in
the recruitment of unskilled
personnel, leading to
financial losses and damage
to our reputation.
• The loss of our highly
talented employees
could weaken our human
resources and the overall
collective capabilities of our
organisation.
• We must be attentive to any
and all potential employee
safety issues, including those
arising from manufacturing
accidents, equipment
malfunctions, and other
factors.
• Cultural and linguistic
disparities pose a potential
challenge to the effective
functioning of our
businesses, especially with
regard to our international
subsidiaries.
• To reduce the risk of hiring underqualified
talent, we regularly engage external
recruitment agencies to provide
consultancy services and shortlist suitably
qualified candidates.
• We invest in well-established employee
development programs that provide ample
training opportunities to drive human
capital growth and employee retention,
while practicing internal promotion and
succession planning across the Group.
• We conduct annual performance reviews
with employees to gather their feedback,
identify strengths and weaknesses in their
performance, and define goals for future
career progression.
• We ensure that all employees adhere to
established health and safety guidelines
in our offices, factories, and warehouses,
providing regular training to foster safe and
healthy workplaces.
• To minimize cultural and language barriers
and drive consistency in standards,
experienced management and operation
teams are deployed to train employees at
our foreign subsidiaries, providing them
with relevant industry knowledge.
• Regular meetings are conducted between
the management team at our HQ along
with employees at foreign subsidiaries to
promote collective alignment with our
corporate vision, mission, and goals.
Strategic Review
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
59
Management Discussion & Analysis
Risks Category Description Mitigation Actions
Compliance Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders
involved:
Capitals impacted:
Growth strategies:
Compliance • Our multi-national
operations require navigating
complex regulatory regimes
across issues such as
tax, cybersecurity, food
safety, and manufacturing
processes, amongst others.
• Non-compliance with tax
and financial regulations can
lead to significant financial
penalties.
• Non-compliance with
cybersecurity rules can
lead to compromised
information and
considerable reputational
damage.
• Non-compliance with food
safety and quality regulations
may result in products
being restricted from sales
in specific jurisdictions,
incurring financial losses.
• Breaching laws and
regulations, such as
the PDPA, Employment
Act, or Halal and Kosher
certification standards can
have a similarly damaging
financial and reputational
impact.
• We must exercise extra
caution when carrying
out business activities in
countries under sanctions
or deemed high-risk.
• We regularly participate in professional
training events organized by relevant
bodies to stay up to date with any changes
in regulations that affect our operations.
• We maintain frequent communication
with local authorities to gain a better
understanding of the specific requirements
and incentives related to any upcoming
projects we have in the region.
• To reduce the risks of food safety and
quality issues, we have implemented a
management system for food safety and
quality that adheres to the FSSC 22000
standard.
• We have established detailed internal
controls and SOPs that ensure we submit
all necessary documents and information
in a timely manner.
• To avoid potential issues with relevant
authorities, we provide our marketing
teams with regular updates on which
countries are sanctioned or considered
high-risk.
• Our Group always follows the laws and
regulations in each country where we
operate, making compliance a top priority
at all times.
Strategic Review
Read more:
Our Non-Financial Performance,
page 18
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
60
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Growth & Expansion
Strategic
Priorities
Timeframe
Medium-term (1-3 years)
Long-term (4-6 years)
Competitive
Advantages
Business
Strategies
Medium-term
• Our global expansion to the US, UK, Europe and Côte d'Ivoire has enabled us to benefit from
economies of scale
• We have strategically located our production facilities and operations within the largest chocolate
consuming markets
• Our constantly expanding annual cocoa grinding capacity, currently at 337,000 MT, and annual
industrial chocolate capacity, currently at 95,000 MT, are adequately supported by cocoa grinding
facilities at Pasir Gudang (Malaysia), Batam (Indonesia), San Pedro (Côte d'Ivoire) and an industrial
chocolate production facility in Mannheim (Germany)
• Our cocoa cake grinding, cocoa liquor and butter melting, as well as cocoa butter deodorising
capabilities are adequately supported by production facilities in Delaware and New Jersey in the US
• SCHOKINAG in Germany and GCBCUK in the UK are positioned to aid our expansion within the
European industrial chocolate market segment
• Our Côte d'Ivoire production facility enables us to reap the benefits of our “close to source” and
“close to market” expansion policies
• Our ability to directly source premium cocoa beans provides us with a shorter bean-to-ingredient
cycle, significantly mitigates future supply chain risks and provides us with greater control over our
production and logistic operations
• We have cultivated a geographically diverse customer base across various global regions
• Our strong relationships with suppliers and customers help to ensure a stable supply and quality of
cocoa beans, as well as timely and flexible delivery of shipments call-off from our clients
• We will maintain a keen eye on favourable future expansion opportunities that serve to increase our
market share in strategic international cocoa-derived ingredients and industrial chocolate markets
• We persist in exploring opportunities in new markets and developing mutually beneficial relationships
with customers across Asia and Europe
• We continue to nurture stability and harmony amongst all employees under the Group so that our
workforce collectively aspires towards the same objectives and goals
• We have assigned internal teams to engage with customers in order to better understand their
product requirements and thus empower innovation that is geared to their specific needs
• We continue to explore the possibility of expanding the production line in our Côte d'Ivoire production
facility in order to further increase the production capacity in tandem with growing customer demand
• We have established controls and cost efficiency initiatives with the following measures in place:
- Maintain direct control over bean quality and cost
- Greater administration of direct sustainability programs
- Shorten bean to product cycle
- Develop easy access to Europe and lower logistic costs
GROWTH STRATEGIES
GCB’s ascension from a local producer into the fourth largest
cocoa grinding company in the world is the result of our consistent
emphasis on establishing overarching growth strategies that guide
concerted and collective expansion efforts across the Group. These
strategies have evolved over time and reflect our progress within
the industry as well as the shifting landscape of global priorities.
Despite having established ourselves as a key player in the global
cocoa industry, our ambitions for growth remain robust and we will
rely on the following three core growth strategies that leverage on
our competitive advantages to further cement our reputation as an
innovative and responsible industry leader with an ever-expanding
global presence and product range.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
61
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Sustainability
Strategic
Priorities
Timeframe
Medium-term (1-3 years)
Long-term (4-6 years)
Competitive
Advantages
Medium-to-long-term
• We have made significant progress in our efforts to reduce our reliance on non-renewable energy
sources
• We have improved our net energy consumption through increased utilization of solar energy and
biomass boilers
• Our biomass boilers that use internally generated cocoa shells and solar panels are able to generate
112,537 GJ of renewable energy thus significantly reducing our requirements for emissions-intensive
natural gas
• We have continuously invested in new machineries that offer greater sustainability as well as
technologies for energy generation
• We are reputed for providing a safe and healthy working environment for all of our employees
• Our active engagement with our employees and local communities have enabled us to understand
their needs and align our collective objectives
• Our experienced management team possesses extensive finance and industry experience, and has
successfully maintained a high retention rate amongst employees
• We have invested in growing our GC&B Program in collaboration with our customers. The program
expanded our Human Rights Due Diligence systems to cover more farmer households to address
issues on child and forced labour, while deforestation risk assessments are conducted continuously
Business
Strategies
• We will continue to expand our efforts to harness renewable energy
• We will persist in undertaking energy conservation initiatives while keeping an eye on new methods
and technologies that we may adopt to reduce our overall power consumption and improve our
energy efficiency
• We will expand our employment of experienced in-house personnel tasked with further optimising
our processes towards greater energy efficiency to reduce our carbon footprint
• We will continue to ensure that our cocoa beans suppliers comply and adhere to regulatory standards
in relation to child labour, forced labour, deforestation and other key social and environmental issues,
while our GC&B Program simultaneously strives to engage farmers and cooperatives to identify and
remediate issues on child labour and deforestation
• We will maintain our efforts to achieve traceable and sustainable cocoa-derived food ingredients
across our supply chain
• We will provide professional development, training opportunities, and a safe and healthy working
environment for all of our employees, making this an ongoing top priority
• We will expand our internal quality assurance capabilities and processes to improve product quality
via enhanced on the job training and other such initiatives
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
62
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Innovation
Strategic
Priorities
Timeframe
Medium-term (1-3 years)
Long-term (4-6 years)
Competitive
Advantages
Business
Strategies
Medium-to-long-term
• We have implemented stringent processes that enable us to maximise the quality of our products
• Our in-house R&D team has fostered close working relationships with customers to promote
cooperative development of new recipes and innovative products
• We are able to leverage on the strong capabilities of our process team to continuously explore
opportunities for adopting advanced technology in our production lines that streamline our
production processes and improve efficiency
• We have also optimised our production facility layouts, machine run-time planning and production
planning systems to enhance our production efficiency
• Our emphasis on constant innovation as the key to maintaining market superiority and commitment
to constant R&D have served to ensure that our production facilities remain equipped to produce
quality products consistently
• Our R&D team provides a valuable one-stop product matching service that has seen us successfully
develop cocoa liquor, cocoa powder and chocolate with a wide range of flavours and characteristics
for our customers
• We have accumulated a vast amount of technical innovation and chocolate expertise that empowers
our market competitiveness and agility across various product and technology applications, such as:
- Rapid development of tailor-made recipes for customers;
- Ability to keep up with the latest market trends such as vegan or nut-free products;
- Setting up of a state-of-the-art pilot plant;
- Utilization of modern analytical devices and sensory panels
• We will continue to explore the adoption of cutting-edge new technologies that may further improve,
enhance or expand our grinding capacity and production efficiency
• Our R&D team will continue to work cooperatively with our clients to ensure their latest requirements
can be conveniently and rapidly addressed
• Our process team will play a proactive role in exploring and integrating the best manufacturing
standards and systems to effectively maintain or improve the consistency and quality of our products
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
63
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Review
The Group once again set a new revenue record in FY2022
of RM4,419.8 million, marking a robust 12.7% increase from
the RM3,923.3 million achieved in the past financial year.
Our growth in revenue was spearheaded by higher average
selling prices for cocoa powder and increased sales volume
of other cocoa products as world economies fully reopened
during the year.
Despite the increase in revenue, we recorded a slight 4.4%
contraction in our profit before tax to RM188.1 million,
compared to RM196.8 million in FY2021. Our net profit also
dipped slightly to RM147.4 million from RM154.8 million in
the previous financial year.
The slight decrease in our profitability may be attributed
to weaker cocoa butter prices as well as an increase in
our overall operating expenses due to across-the-board
inflation on raw material prices and finance costs.
Our total assets at 31 December 2022 stands at RM3,660.4
million, marking an increase of 4.7% compared to
RM3,495.5 million the previous year. The increase was once
again driven by our expansion activities, especially in Côte
d'Ivoire, UK and Germany.
The Group’s total liabilities marginally decreased to
RM2,021.8 million as at 31 December 2022, down by
6.1% compared to RM2,153.1 million the year before. The
decrease can be attributed by the reduction of our loan and
borrowings.
Thanks to our continued profitability, we have once again
increased our retained profits from RM1,000.5 million last
year to RM1,088.3 million in FY2022. The Group’s total
shareholders’ equity has also significantly increased to
RM1,638.6 million in FY2022, up by 22.1% from RM1,342.3
million in the previous year. The increase was driven by
additional capital raised from exercise of warrants, along
with higher foreign reserves and retained profits.
As at 31 December 2022, our net gearing remains at a
practical level of 0.68 times.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
64
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Review
Read more about our financial performance in the Financial Statements section of this report.
Summarised Group Income Statement
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December (RM'000) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Revenue 2,273,424 2,941,630 3,684,985 3,923,297 4,419,839
EBITDA 263,341 332,820 349,273 292,595 308,973
Profit Before Taxation 208,722 266,861 267,320 196,760 188,081
Net Profit Attributable To Equity Holders 190,115 217,948 222,709 154,838 147,410
Summarised Group Statement of Financial Position
As At 31 December (RM'000) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Total Non-Current Assets 500,067 534,718 964,932 1,072,428 1,308,165
Total Current Assets 1,284,084 1,507,086 1,861,440 2,423,044 2,352,209
Total Assets 1,784,151 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472 3,660,374
Share Capital 121,832 220,407 263,236 297,059 495,237
Reserves 550,656 729,442 926,393 1,046,008 1,144,038
Treasury Shares (5,347) (226) (720) (720) (720)
Shareholders' Equity 667,141 949,623 1,188,909 1,342,347 1,638,555
Total Non-Current Liabilities 80,940 93,933 556,263 516,242 502,550
Total Current Liabilities 1,036,070 998,248 1,081,200 1,636,883 1,519,269
Total Equity and Liabilities 1,784,151 2,041,804 2,826,372 3,495,472 3,660,374
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
65
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Review
Summarised Group Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Operating Profit Before Working Capital Changes 255,790 330,050 338,739 277,912 345,949
Net Cash Flows From/(Used In) Operating Activities 302,542 (93,699) 91,052 (79,134) 277,708
Net Cash Flows (Used In)/From Investing Activities (99,174) (62,068) (321,221) (164,591) (274,052)
Net Cash Flows (Used In)/From Financing Activities (199,713) 157,626 254,771 241,231 (14,386)
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 4,420 1,714 25,266 (5,446) (5,629)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 26,938 31,358 33,072 58,338 52,892
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year# 31,358 33,072 58,338 52,892 47,263
# Including effect on exchange rate difference.
Financial Analysis 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
EBITDA Margin 11.58% 11.31% 9.48% 7.46% 6.99%
PBT Margin 9.18% 9.07% 7.25% 5.02% 4.26%
Net Profit Margin 8.36% 7.41% 6.04% 3.95% 3.34%
Free Cash Flow (RM'000) 207,792 (156,229) (312,302) (243,321) 3,829
ROE (Average Equity) 28.5% 23.0% 18.7% 11.5% 9.0%
ROA (Average Total Assets) 10.7% 10.7% 7.9% 4.4% 4.0%
EPS (sen) 19.89 22.51 21.82 14.86 13.52
Net Dividends Per Share (sen) * 2.00 * 3.58 * 3.54 * 4.04 3.52
Payout Ratio * 10.1% * 15.9% * 16.2% * 27.2% 26.0%
Cash and Bank Balances (RM'000) 44,799 46,790 58,338 52,892 47,263
Total Borrowings (RM'000) 602,367 682,714 1,034,974 1,292,290 1,160,754
Gearing (net of cash) 0.84 0.67 0.82 0.92 0.68
* Restated based on dividend declared during the year.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
66
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Review
Revenue (RM'000)
Net Profit (RM‘000)
ROE
EBITDA (RM’000)
Total Assets (RM‘000)
ROA
PBT (RM‘000)
Shareholders’ Equity (RM‘000)
2018
2018
2018
2018
2019
2019
2019
2019
2020
2020
2020
2020
2021
2021
2021
2021
2022
2022
2022
2022
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
2022
2021
2019 2020
2018 2022
2020
2018 2019 2021
10.7%
4.4%
10.7%
7.9%
4.0%
2,273,424
2,941,630
3,684,985
3,923,297
4,419,839
263,341
332,820
349,273
292,595
308,973
208,722
266,861
267,320
196,760
188,081
190,115
217,948
222,709
154,838
147,410
1,784,151
2,041,804
2,826,372
3,495,472
3,660,374
667,141
949,623
1,188,909
1,342,347
1,638,555
28.5%
18.7%
9.0%
11.5%
23.0%
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
67
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Review
Quarterly Net Profit (RM’000)
Quarterly Revenue (RM'000)
Quarterly Analysis
Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000) 2021 2022 % Chg
Turnover
1st Quarter 960,121 990,527 3.2%
2nd Quarter 876,226 1,197,505 36.7%
3rd Quarter 998,104 1,100,499 10.3%
4th Quarter 1,088,846 1,131,308 3.9%
Total 3,923,297 4,419,839 12.7%
Net Profit
1st Quarter 33,896 53,269 57.2%
2nd Quarter 36,389 44,610 22.6%
3rd Quarter 34,455 30,756 -10.7%
4th Quarter 50,098 18,775 -62.5%
Total 154,838 147,410 -4.8%
1,000,000 -
800,000 -
600,000 -
400,000 -
200,000 -
0 -
60,000 -
40,000 -
20,000 -
0 -
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
2022
2021
2022
2021
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
68
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
FY2022 was another consecutive year of unprecedented
challenges, but GCB emerged from the COVID-19
pandemic stronger and more resilient than ever.
Our Group's operational and financial performances
improved, with revenue increasing by 12.7% from
RM3,923.3 million to RM4,419.8 million, and operating
profit rising from RM277.9 million to RM345.9 million in
FY2022. Furthermore, our EBITDA also improved by 5.9%
to RM309.0 million.
Many aspects of our operations have returned to normalcy,
including the container shortage issue, freight costs,
and other pandemic-induced challenges. Notably, our
production capacity and utilisation rate have significantly
improved, reflecting our unwavering dedication to
efficiency and productivity.
One of our most significant achievements in FY2022 was
the commissioning of our state-of-the-art Côte d'Ivoire
plant in September 2022. This milestone achievement has
increased our Group's total annual bean grinding capacity
to 337,000 MT.
In addition, we successfully completed the debottlenecking
project in SCHOKINAG, boosting our annual industrial
chocolate capacity by 5,000 MT to a total of 95,000 MT
across our chocolate production operations.
Our machinery utilisation rate has reached an impressive
95%, maintaining our productivity levels even during
the most challenging times. Furthermore, we achieved
a 0% fatality rate in FY2022, reaffirming our unwavering
commitment to safety and our people.
FY2022 has demonstrated the agility and resilience of our
business to persevere and grow during challenging times.
We will continue to make improvements to our practices
across our five core operational areas as we seek to achieve
our robust growth and sustainability objectives.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
69
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
Our 5 core operational areas:
Safeguarding
our products’
quality and
reliability
Embedding
sustainability
in our supply
chain
• Ensure that only high-quality cocoa beans are used in production
• Uphold customers' trust and confidence by ensuring all our products comply with
global food safety standards and guidelines
• Never compromise on the quality and reliability of our products
• Foster a quality mindset with the aim of manufacturing products that are trusted
and preferred by our customers
• Comply with relevant laws and regulations as well as our stringent internal quality
control requirements
• Improve quality management with consistent reviews of our products
• Embed effective supervision and communication across the production process
• Enable enhanced monitoring of the production processes through a comprehensive
camera inspection system
• Commit to uphold various international product quality and safety standards
• Track, investigate and take corrective actions on customer complaints and product
returns that are related to food safety
• Conduct regular training to familiarise employees with food handling, quality and
food safety best practices
• Reduce reliance on non-renewable energy by tapping into renewable energy
sources to reduce carbon emissions. GCB has implemented biomass boilers that
generate steam from cocoa shells to operate our machines. Our Group has also
installed a 2.19 MWp solar system to lower our reliance on carbon-intensive energy
sources
• Continue to explore the availability of green technology in the market
• Enhance the usage and coverage of green technology, including biomass boilers
and solar panels in existing cocoa grinding plants
• Implement systematic machine monitoring and control system to maintain energy
and water efficiencies for our operating equipment
• Focus on improving ESG practices across our supply chain by leveraging on our
CBC program to seek progress across the four pillars of ‘Healthy Planet’, ‘Happy
Employees’, ‘Thriving Communities’ and ‘Sustainable Supply Chain’
Read more:
Our Non-Financial Performance,
page 18
Read more:
Caring Beyond Cocoa, page 89
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
70
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
Maintaining
a high level
of health and
safety
• Recognise the fundamental role of our people in executing the processes and
procedures to produce our products
• Ensure our production processes comply with global health and safety standards to
maintain a safe environment for our people
• Take advantage of new technologies to reduce the risk of injuries and accidents,
such as lifting manipulators and automated palletisers, amongst others
• Commit to achieve higher standards in machine safety to protect our people
by continuously improving machine handling protocols and safety intervention
features
• Raise safety awareness amongst our employees by providing competency training
on the safe handling of machines and equipment
• Provide avenues for our people to report safety-related issues via accessible
reporting platforms throughout the Group, making it easier for our people to raise
concerns and share feedback
• Organize trainings such as yearly refresher trainings for all employees and forklift
driving courses to obtain certifications for the safe handling of forklifts
• Implement all necessary safety measures across offices, manufacturing sites and
warehouses
• Compulsory sanitization of all working areas at the start and end of shifts
• Uphold usage of face masks, frequent hand washing and sanitization routines
• Ensure clear flow of traffic to manage the movement of people at all critical points
(health and safety requirement)
• Deploy teams that specialize in specific skill sets to maximize productivity
• Display visual safety-related signs at strategic locations within operating premises
• Organize briefings and talks on occupational safety to maintain adherence
• Uphold our zero-fatality track record
GUAN CHONG BERHAD MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
71
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
Empowering
our people
• Provide on-the-job training and promote continuous professional development for
all employees
• Enhance the skills of operation workers, especially in terms of specialized
operational tasks, to increase productivity
• Empower a dynamic senior management team that provides guidance and
coaching to the next generation of leaders with the objective of propelling GCB
towards our vision, growth and operational objectives
• Adopt the use of robotic arms in our packaging line
• Establish digitalized processes for production planning and process (ERP)
• Implement proper preventive maintenance schedule with sufficient spare parts
inventory
• Optimize productivity through proper production planning with sufficient trained
personnel
Integrating
technology
to enhance
efficiency and
effectiveness
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
72
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2022
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
Sustainability Report
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS IN FY2022
Over the past twelve months, we once again showcased resilience
to surmount persisting global challenges and make headway on
key initiatives within our sustainability framework. As we expand our
operations, we remain committed to the principles of sustainable
development and will continue to prioritise the wellbeing of our
employees and surrounding communities as we strive to generate
enduring value for all stakeholders.
73
The following are some of our key achievements in advancing EES outcomes in FY2022.
SOCIAL
More than
2,000 women
empowered through
VSLA groups

Over
5,000 farmers
provided with comprehensive
life insurances

30%
decrease in work-related
accidents compared to FY2021

Over 6,000
households
covered by Human Rights Due
Diligence systems that assess
and address child labour
ECONOMIC
RM4.52
billion
Value Generated for
stakeholders

Zero
violations to
Anti-Corruption Policy

All operations assessed
for corruption risks
ENVIRONMENTAL
Over 112,537
GJ of renewable
energy generated from
Solar and Biomass

Over 1,307
tCO
2
e
avoided from 4,639 solar
panels with maximum
capacity of 2,190 kWp

Over 59,000
multipurpose trees
distributed to farmers

Invested
RM1.7 million
to upgrade our
water treatment
processes
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
74
Sustainability Report
REPORTING PRACTICE
INTRODUCTION
As we robustly expand our presence to various countries
and regions around the world, we remain cognisant that
the manner in which we conduct our business will leave a
lasting impact within the communities where we operate.
Thus, we believe it is important to prioritise sustainable
practices in every aspect of our operational activities and
place ESG considerations as part of our strategic decision-
making process to ensure the Group remains empowered
to mindfully, responsibly and sustainably generate long-
term value for our stakeholders.
Our efforts extend across the ESG spectrum, from ensuring
sustainable financial performance and maintaining
responsible business practices to helping our employees
thrive as part of the GCB family and leaving a positive
impact in our surrounding communities.
OUR REPORTING APPROACH
This SR has been prepared in compliance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad MMLR, Bursa Malaysia SR Guide and
with reference to the GRI Standards. With guidance from the GRI Standards, we adopt the principles of good reporting to
ensure proper presentation of data and quality of information is provided to readers, from which well-informed assessments
may be inferred about our organisation's impact and contribution to sustainable development.
The following key principles are covered in this report:
As we monitor global trends and expand our reporting on ESG issues, GCB underscores our commitment to thoroughly
identify and address significant sustainability-related risks and opportunities to which we are exposed.
This SR 2022 is designed to be read in tandem with GCB’s IAR 2022 for a complete representation of how sustainability
drives holistic value creation across the Group.
Stakeholder Inclusiveness
Capturing stakeholders’ expectations and
concerns
Material Matters
Prioritising the key sustainability issues most
relevant to our Group that are determined
through engagement with stakeholders
Sustainability Performance
Presenting key performance indicators
within the wider context of sustainability
Completeness
Reporting on all sustainability issues that
are relevant to our Group and in alignment
with requirements
We have dedicated ourselves to nurture an environmentally and socially responsible cocoa sector that can be sustained
well into the future, and in which farmers are supported, natural resources are utilised conscientiously, and employees are
empowered in their growth.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
75
Sustainability Report
SCOPE & BOUNDARIES
The Group follows an annual reporting cycle and this SR
refers to the sustainability performance and progress of
GCB for the reporting period from 1 January 2022 to 31
December 2022, unless otherwise stated. Specifically, this
year’s SR will cover the sustainability performance of the
following subsidiaries under the Group:
• GCCM
• GCBCM
• GCBF
• ACI
• GCBCS
• SSIG
Our reporting approach will primarily focus on the largest
manufacturing facilities of the business, with the scope of
this SR covering all major processing production facilities
in Malaysia, Indonesia and Germany as stated above. The
Group will further expand the scope of our reporting in the
coming years.
RESTATEMENT OF INFORMATION
The Group has continued to improve its data collection
system to provide a more holistic and complete reporting
approach with reference to the requirements of the GRI
Standards. No restatement of information is being made
for this reporting period.
MEMBERSHIPS & ASSOCIATIONS
We remain committed to being an active member of
the cocoa industry by contributing to the following key
associations:
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
The Group desires to inculcate the principles of sustainability
beyond our organisation and strives to identify the primary
relevance of potential ESG impacts from our business
activities across our supply chain. By aligning our practices
and principles with external parties in our supply chain,
we strive to actively advocate for the higher prevalence of
sustainable practices across the global cocoa industry.
ASSURANCE
In the development of this SR for FY2022, we have
maintained our emphasis on good governance and internal
reporting practices to provide the various disclosures
found within this report. We will continue to enhance our
data collection, analysis and reporting processes in order
to ensure the accuracy and objectivity of the information
presented in this and all future reports.
As the Group makes further progress in our sustainability
journey, we will firmly consider the adoption of an external
assurance for our future disclosures.
FEEDBACK & AVAILABILITY
This SR is accessible at our corporate website at
www.gcbcocoa.com.
We welcome your views, comments or feedback. Enquiries
may be directed to our headquarters.
MCB
German Initiative on
Sustainable Cocoa
(Forum Nachhaltiger Kakao)
Guan Chong Berhad
+607-254 8888
info@gcbcocoa.com
PLO 273 Jalan Timah 2
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang
81700 Pasir Gudang Johor
CAA
CMAA
WCF
CFI
ICI
ECA
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
76
Sustainability Report
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SUSTAINABLY MAINTAINING OUR LEADING POSITION IN THE GLOBAL COCOA INDUSTRY
Dear Stakeholders,
To drive sustainable growth and profitability in a period of unparalleled environmental
and economic uncertainty, complex sustainability concerns must be addressed. As
we endeavour to cement our position as a preeminent global supplier of cocoa and
chocolate ingredients, our efforts to safeguard the sustainable sourcing and production
of our products will play a crucial role in helping us generate long-term value for our
stakeholders in a manner that transcends mere financial growth.
We have integrated a sustainable mindset into the core of
our business processes and strategies, and are dedicated
to making meaningful contributions towards a more
sustainable cocoa sector. To this end, we have established
the SD to steer our CBC program, the blueprint that
epitomises our unwavering commitment to spearheading
industry-wide sustainability. The program is anchored
on four sustainability pillars – Healthy Planet, Happy
Employees, Thriving Communities, and Sustainable Supply
Chain – and ensures we remain laser-focused on reducing
our ecological footprint, fostering sustainable practices
across our value chain, and prioritising the well-being of
our employees and the communities in which we operate.
ETHICAL GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT
We firmly believe that doing the right thing is the only way
to build a successful and sustainable business that benefits
everyone involved. As we continue to grow, we also bear
a greater responsibility to ensure high standards of ethical
governance and conduct throughout our entire value chain.
To achieve this, we are guided by Group-wide policies
that address key ESG issues and prioritise sustainability
in all aspects of our operations and interactions with
stakeholders.
The Group’s approach to governance and oversight is
stringent, and we use strict procedures and framework
to keep us accountable. Our efforts to promote ethical
governance aligns with the pillars of our CBC sustainability
strategy, particularly the Sustainable Supply Chain pillar.
This is because we recognize the significant impact that
the cocoa supply chain has on the environment and
local communities, and we are dedicated to maximising
our efforts to promote ethical behaviour and advance
sustainability practices.
Integrity, transparency, and accountability will be
fundamental values that underscore our efforts to embrace
sustainability within our overall business strategy. We will
continue to adhere to the ethical principles espoused within
our governance policies to uphold responsible dealings
with customers, suppliers and employees, and to drive
positive impacts in the communities in which we operate.
Read more:
Sustainability Governance, page 78
UPHOLDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
At GCB, we take our responsibility to the environment
seriously, recognizing that it is our duty to ensure future
generations can enjoy the same natural resources that
we do today. Our dedication to promote environmental
sustainability both internally and throughout our value chain
is embedded within the Healthy Planet pillar of our CBC
program. Through this program, we aim to minimize our
impact on the environment, reduce emissions, safeguard
water resources, and support sustainable agriculture
practices.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
77
Sustainability Report
We continued to achieve progress in our renewable energy
initiatives during the year, recording an increase of 44%
in our Group-wide production of solar energy. This is just
the beginning, however, as we are actively investing in
renewable technology at our new factories in the UK and
Côte d'Ivoire, which will further increase the renewable
energy sourced for our facilities.
Deforestation is another critical issue in the cocoa business
that we recognise must be addressed. Through the GC&B
Program, we identify cocoa plantations in our direct
supply chain, evaluate the risks of deforestation, and work
collaboratively with our suppliers and farmer groups to
encourage sustainable land use and conservation practices.
By prioritising biodiversity and traceability of cocoa from
farm to production facility, we are committed to promoting
sustainable practices across our value chain.
Read more:
Healthy Planet, page 89
VALUING OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY
We are cognisant that supporting the health and wellbeing
of our employees and engaging our surrounding
communities are vital actions that support the sustainability
of our business, which is why our CBC program features
the sustainability pillars of Happy Employees and Thriving
Communities.
We take pride in providing a safe and secure workplace for
our employees, and we are happy to report that we have
seen a decline in work-related injuries in recent years. It's
not just about health and safety for us; we also prioritise the
nurturing of an inclusive work environment that promotes
diversity and respect for everyone. We want our employees
to feel appreciated, respected, and valued because we truly
believe that they are the backbone of our organisation.
We know that happy employees can have a positive
impact on society and the environment, and we want to
create a culture of open communication and continuous
improvement in our workplace. To this end, we continue
to provide training programs and wellness initiatives to
support the professional and personal development of our
people.
Our continuous rollout of CSR activities, along with our
sustainability initiatives under our GC&B Program, are
a fundamental demonstration of our commitment to
engage and support the communities in which we operate.
Through our initiatives that educate farmers on climate-
smart agricultural practices and our contributions towards
enabling infrastructure improvements, we are confident of
improving the lives of cocoa farmers and the communities
in our supply chain.
Read more:
Happy Employees and Thriving Communities, page 90
FORGING A BETTER FUTURE
At GCB, we have a deep commitment to forging a better
future for all, and that is why we have incorporated
sustainablethinkingintothecoreofourbusinessprocedures
and strategies. As a member of the cocoa industry, we
recognize the major sustainability challenges that we face,
and we are determined to address them through initiatives
like CBC and GC&B Program. These efforts represent our
dedication to ethical governance and conduct, valuing
our people and community, and upholding environmental
consciousness.
We understand that our stakeholders expect nothing less
from us, and we take that responsibility seriously. Hence we
strive to continue developing solutions that further integrate
sustainability into every aspect of our business, from our
supply chain to our manufacturing processes, while also
ensuring that we continuously deliver high-quality cocoa
ingredients and industrial chocolate to consumers around
the world.
Read more:
Sustainable Supply Chain, page 91
We are humbled and grateful for the unwavering support
and loyalty of our stakeholders, both within our organisation
and externally. The path towards greater sustainability is a
journey that we are undertaking together, and I am excited
to share our progress with you in this SR. We hope that it will
not only inform stakeholders about our sustainability efforts
but also serve to strengthen our collaborative relationship.
While we have made significant progress in our sustainability
journey, we acknowledge that there is still a long road
ahead. Let us continue working together to create a world
that not only sustains us, but in which future generations
may thrive as well.
Thank you.
Brandon Tay Hoe Lian
Chief Executive Officer
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
78
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
In the pursuit of our robust ambitions, we are committed to ensuring our operations and practices remain fully compliant
with the law and in alignment with the various regulatory requirements of our industry. In each country or region where
we operate, we are dedicated to ensuring complete adherence to the rules that govern our various business dealings,
including all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.
Our collective duty as a Group is encapsulated within the Code which comprehensively outlines our expectations of
all our employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners. The Code was specifically crafted to be practical and
applicable to our day-to-day operations and contains non-ambiguous guidelines on what constitutes acceptable and
unacceptable behaviours. It is conscientiously conveyed to all current and new employees, with full adherence expected
from all members of staff, including Board members.
The Code also stipulates the channels through which issues may be raised and includes a whistleblowing process that
empowers employees to confidentially disclose any potential violations without the fear of reprisal. On this note, a
dedicated investigation team has been set up to examine such concerns, with the proper consequences being imposed
should infringements be discovered.
To underscore our commitment to the highest standards of corporate and sustainability governance across all our
operations, a detailed Group-wide framework has been developed based on the following:
• MCCG 2021
• Bursa Malaysia CG Guide
• Bursa Malaysia MMLR
• Bursa Malaysia SR Guide
Furthermore, we apply the principle of “shared growth” to our overall approach to value creation, in that our desire to
achieve business and operational targets must always be effectively balanced with stakeholder expectations, environmental
stewardship and concern for the communities in which we operate. In accordance with this, the following economic,
environmental and social considerations and practices have been embedded at the Group-level to guide our efforts in
responsibly achieving growth and profitability while creating a positive impact on people and our planet.
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
79
Sustainability Report
To attain long-term sustainable growth and value for all stakeholders, we
regularly review and update our business practices in order to ensure we remain
equipped and focused on complying with all relevant laws, rules and regulations
in our efforts to achieve our operational and expansion targets.
• We lean on our Group-wide governance policies to effectively communicate
expectations to stakeholders and underscore our collective commitment to
ethical operations
• Risk assessments are evaluated quarterly by our ERM committee to identify
relevant risks and implement the necessary controls, which are subsequently
reviewed by the Board to ensure their effectiveness
• In tandem with our expanding global footprint, we regularly monitor global
trends and regulations to safeguard compliance and ensure our ability to
drive profits ethically
GOVERNANCE
Our processes are continuously monitored and improved to optimise the
environmental sustainability of our operations, with our initiatives guided by
various Environmental and Sustainable Development Policies introduced to:
• Establish and strengthen our commitment to protect the environment
• Optimize responsible resource consumption within operations
• Empower and train talents in environmental management
• Uphold legal and regulatory compliance
• Adopt operational processes that minimise environmental harm
• Assess and address impacts in our supply chain
• Monitor carbon footprint of our operations and beyond to understand and
mitigate our impacts
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL
Guided by Group-wide frameworks, policies and committees, best practices are
adopted across our subsidiaries that respect the ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work. To ensure the highest standards in occupational
health and safety are consistently met:
• We consistently improve human rights due diligence and oversight
throughout our operations and across all aspects of our business, from
maintaining responsible corporate governance and compliance to
international standards to ensuring rigorous adherence to national and
international laws and regulations
• We expect our suppliers to establish sound human rights policies that adhere
to the GCB Supplier Code of Conduct
• We leverage on our GC&B Program to better the livelihoods of cocoa
farmers, while emphasising local procurement to create job opportunities in
the regions where we operate
• We aim to leave meaningful impacts and help our surrounding communities
thrive via the undertaking of a wide range of CSR activities
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
80
Sustainability Report
OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
BOD
SSC
SD
ENVIRONMENTAL
(i) Healthy Planet
• Emissions
• Waste
• Water and Effluents
SOCIAL
(ii) Happy Employees
• Employment
(iii) Thriving Communities
• Local Communities
GOVERNANCE
(iv) Sustainable Supply Chain
• Sustainable Procurement
• GC&B Program
- Strategic Pillar #1
Improving farmer's income
- Strategic Pillar #2
Benefitting Farmers & their
Communities
- Strategic Pillar #3
Protecting the Environment
- Strategic Pillar #4
Providing Responsible Cocoa
We are pleased to report that we further strengthened our sustainability governance framework with the incorporation of a
new SD in FY2022. The SD will assume responsibility for implementing the Group’s overarching sustainability strategy and
ensuring effective communication across our entire sustainability governance structure. At the same time, the SD is tasked
with keeping updated with the evolving ESG matters and reporting requirements, which will better enable us to stay ahead
of the curve within the fast-changing global sustainability landscape.
1
2
3
4
4 4
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
81
BOD
The integration of business and sustainability is spearheaded at the highest levels of
governance, with the Board assuming the vital role of driving awareness and adoption
of sustainability practices across the Group. The Board provides strategic guidance and
direction on the alignment of the Group’s sustainability strategies with our long-term
business objectives. Our increasingly robust sustainability strategy is regularly reviewed by
the Board and communicated to relevant stakeholders.
SSC
Chaired by an Executive Director of the Group and comprising of General Managers and
Managers of various departments, the SSC supports the Board in steering the Group’s
sustainability efforts and ensures that all issues relevant to the Group’s business footprint
are adequately considered and that mitigative strategies are developed accordingly. The
SSC closely tracks local and global sustainability developments that may affect our business
outcomes and updates the Board on any pertinent matters subsequently identified. The
SSC also supervises the development of sustainability related policies and matters that
govern sustainability practices across the Group before presenting these matters to the
Board for approval.
SD
The newly formalised SD further underscores the Group’s commitment to embed the
principles of sustainability across our business operations. The roles of the SD include:
• Preparing the Group’s annual SR in line with Bursa Malaysia Requirements and other
leading sustainability disclosure frameworks to maintain compliance with applicable
regulations and international voluntary standards;
• Carrying out materiality assessments via engagement with our stakeholders to identify
sustainability topics relevant to the Group’s businesses, which are routinely presented
to the SSC;
• Analysing sustainability risks and including them within the Group’s master risk register,
in order to ensure ongoing effective implementation of appropriate control measures;
• Assisting the SSC in the implementation of sustainability initiatives across the Group
and undertaking regular reviews to evaluate their effectiveness;
• Integrating sustainability objectives into practice through application in relevant
policies and delegation to working committees; and
• Overseeing the management of sustainability projects and initiatives by setting
appropriate performance indicators and maintaining proper records to facilitate
regular review.
CWG
Our internal CBC working groups that focus on Healthy Planet, Happy Employees, Thriving
Communities and Sustainable Supply Chain support the SD in all ESG related matters and
consists of representatives from various departments within the Group. Their roles and
responsibilities include:
• Working collaboratively with the SD to promote the adoption of sustainability initiatives
across the Group and ensure smooth implementation of all sustainability strategies;
• Serving as a conduit between the SD and other departments within the Group to
provide employees with an effective platform to highlight sustainability suggestions
and matters;
• Maintaining responsibility for the execution of sustainability related actions and
strategies;
• Delivering detailed reports on actions taken and results achieved during monthly
meetings; and
• Maintaining proper documentation and records of the actions taken and their relevant
outcomes in order to track performance and support continuous improvement
efforts.
Sustainability Report
2
3
4
1
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
82
Sustainability Report
(i) Healthy Planet
The Healthy Planet CWG leads activities under
the “Environmental” pillar, promoting a variety
of environmentally sustainable businesses
practices throughout the organisation to
mitigate the impacts of our operations
wherever possible.
(ii) Happy Employees
The Happy Employees CWG spearheads
activities under the “Social” pillar, encouraging
Group-wide best practices to safeguard and
empower employees’ mental health, physical
wellbeing and safety, gender equality and
professional development, amongst others.
(iii) Thriving Communities
The Thriving Communities CWG guides
activities under the “Social” pillar, establishing
a wide variety of community outreach
and support programs to promote better
health, wellbeing and education within the
communities in which we operate.
(iv) Sustainable Supply Chain
The Sustainable Supply Chain CWG handles
activities under the “Governance” pillar,
ensuring sustainable procurement of goods
and services across the Group. This includes
the responsible sourcing of cocoa from
origin countries and the implementation of
cocoa sustainability programmes in line with
the strategies established within our GC&B
Program.
The Group aspires to continue expanding and strengthening our sustainability governance structure so as to accelerate
our sustainability agenda and successfully meet or surpass our overarching objectives. In FY2022, we formed four new
subcommittees and working groups to manage, oversee and spearhead activities within our primary sustainability pillars.
4
4
4
4
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
83
Sustainability Report
BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY AND
CODE OF CONDUCT
The Group’s core values and culture
are enshrined at all levels within the
Code, which sets forth appropriate
guidelines in the following areas,
among others:
• Dealing with stakeholders,
including employees, customers
and business associates;
• Managing work environments;
• Dealing with company assets;
and
• Dealing with potential conflicts
of interest.
Related policies guiding practices at
the subsidiary level are continuously
monitored and updated as and when
necessary to ensure they comply with
industry and jurisdictional regulations
and remain relevant to the Group’s
processes.
Our full Business Ethics Policy
and Code of Conduct is
available on GCB’s corporate
website.
https://www.gcbcocoa.
com/content/corporate-
governance
GROUP-WIDE SUSTAINABILITY
POLICIES
The Group’s Environmental Policy
provides specific strategies to
promote the conservation of natural
resources in the environments within
which we operate, the preservation
of biodiversity, and compliance with
all relevant environmental legislation
in our countries of operation. The
Sustainable Procurement Policy and
Procedure also dictates the specific
measures that all suppliers of the
Group should adopt to minimise
negative environmental impacts
associated with their operations.
ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY
AND WHISTLEBLOWER
PROCEDURE
The Group’s Anti-Corruption Policy
and Whistleblower Procedure were
adopted to provide robust safeguards
against bribery, corruption or other
similarly unethical acts within our
business operations and promote
responsible conduct at all times.
The policy dictates that all Group
employees or agents acting for or on
behalf of the Group are prohibited
from, directly or indirectly, receiving
or providing benefits such as gifts,
commissions, kickbacks or any
benefits in similar nature from or to
any persons or entities that maintain
business dealings with GCB, where
the benefits would reasonably be
expectedtoinfluencetheperformance
of employees’ or agents’ duties in any
aspect. In addition, all employees are
required to inform third parties of the
Anti-Corruption Policy and to request
the third party’s compliance.
In establishing the policy, the Board
took cognisance of Section 17A of the
MACC 2009, which came into force
on 1 June 2020. Relevant training
modules are provided to Directors,
management and all other employees
across the Group to ensure they
remain aware of the policy and the
practices outlined therein, with each
individual required to execute a
formal pledge to acknowledge their
commitment.
The Group has put into place a
Whistleblower Procedure that provides
a mechanism for all employees
of the Group to report instances
of unethical behaviour, actual or
suspected fraud or dishonesty, illegal
activities or other violations of the
Code. If the case in question cannot
be resolved through normal reporting
lines and procedures, it is elevated
to the attention of the Whistleblower
Committee who will then assign
the case to ERM Coordinators or
appropriate independent management
teams for further investigation. The
identities of whistle-blowers and
details of reported issues are kept
strictly confidential throughout the
whistleblowing process.
Our full Anti-Corruption Policy
and Whistleblower Procedure
is available on GCB’s corporate
website.
https://www.gcbcocoa.
com/content/corporate-
governance
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
84
Sustainability Report
LIST OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Enterprise Risk
Management
Policy and
Procedure
Gender Diversity
Policy
Environmental Social Governance
Supplier Code of
Conduct
Business Ethics
Policy and Code
of Conduct
Anti-Money
Laundering Policy
Anti-Fraud Policy
and Procedure
Sustainable
Procurement
Policy and
Procedure
Sustainable
Development
Policy
Whistleblower
Procedure
Health and Safety
Policy
Anti-Corruption
Policy
Human Rights
and Labour Policy
and Procedure
Cocoa
Sustainability
Program Policy
and Procedure
Forest and
Traceability Policy
Environmental
Policy
Grievance
Procedures
(Internal &
External)
Innovation Policy
Succession
Planning Policy
and Procedure
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
85
Sustainability Report
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
EMPOWERING STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS
As our business operations continue to expand geographically and into new product sectors, we recognise the important
role that frequent and meaningful engagement with our most significant stakeholders can play in our efforts to operate
sustainably. These engagements enable us to gain a holistic understanding of the economic, environmental and social
impacts of our business and allow us to identify matters that are most pertinent to our stakeholders. Further aided by
the insights received from our feedback channels and collaborative platforms, we are empowered to effectively develop
sustainability initiatives in alignment with these action areas.
The Group remains committed towards continually enhancing our engagement efforts and, to this end, we conducted
workshops during FY2022 to raise awareness on sustainability topics amongst internal stakeholders and provide a platform
to gain feedback. We also leveraged on our materiality assessment survey to obtain an improved understanding of the
value gained from effective and continual engagement with stakeholders.
We are mindful of the increasing levels of awareness, interest and complexity amongst various stakeholder groups with
regards to our management of ESG impacts within our operations. Moving forward, we intend to employ a more structured
approach towards engaging both internal and external stakeholders with the objective of facilitating lasting mutually
beneficial relationships and achieving better outcomes.
The following is a summary of our stakeholder engagements during FY2022.
Stakeholder Group Engagement Objectives Engagement Approach Frequency
Customers
Encompasses purchasers
and product users
• To meet the highest
expectations on the
quality, safety and
delivery of our products
• Calls and online meetings
• Email communications
• Face-to-face interactions
• Annual customer surveys
• Corporate website
• Customer feedback channels
• Regular meeting and plant visits
• Trade shows
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• ANL
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
Shareholders & Investors
Encompasses institutional
investors, analysts, retail
shareholders
• To deliver dependable
dividend payments and
capital gains through
ethical value creation
• To maintain the
Group's reputation as
responsible and ESG-
focused corporate
citizen
• Investor briefings and other investor
relations engagements
• Announcements on Bursa Malaysia
• Annual General Meeting
• Integrated Annual Report
• Corporate website
• AWN
• AWN
• ANL
• ANL
• AWN
Suppliers & Contractors
Encompasses organisations
and groups that provide
services and/or products
• To promote responsible
procurement practices
• To establish clear
expectations on product
quality and regulatory
compliance
• Calls and online conferences
• Email communications
• Face-to-face interactions
• Supplier and contractor meetings
• Supplier evaluations
• Corporate website
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
AWN: As and when needed		 ANL: Annually		 QTR: Quarterly
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
86
Sustainability Report
Stakeholder Group Engagement Objectives Engagement Approach Frequency
Employees
Encompasses senior
management employees
and general staff
• To better understand
their concerns so that
we may provide a safe
working environment
that adequately
considers the physical
and mental health of
our employees
• To promote and
maintain an inclusive
and non-discriminatory
working environment
and culture
• To provide the
necessary opportunities
for learning, growth
and professional
development of our
employees
• Monthly management meetings
• Monthly Workers Committee meetings
• Regular employee meetings (daily,
weekly and monthly, depending on job
profile)
• Employee appraisal sessions
• Team building activities
• Regular, role-specific training modules
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• ANL
• AWN
• QTR
Government, Regulators
and NGOs
Encompasses national
and local government
authorities. NGOs include
standard-setters and
Industry Initiatives
• To ensure regulatory
compliance in all
operational premises
• To transparently uphold
responsible business
practices
• To monitor
industry trends and
developments in
industry standards
• Reports produced by regulators
• Visits by government officials and/or
regulatory agents
• Announcements on Bursa Malaysia and
statutory reporting
• Audits and assessments
• Seminars/webinars, trainings sessions,
dialogues and forums organised by the
regulatory bodies
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
• AWN
Local Communities
Encompasses the group
of interacting people that
share an environment
in which the business
operates
• To provide employment
opportunities to local
communities, thereby
generating a positive
economic impact
• To manage
operational processes
for responsible
environmental
management that
minimise impacts to the
local community
• CSR Community Events
• Corporate Website
• QTR
• AWN
Media
Encompasses journalists
from tri-media and online
news sites
• To communicate
business strategies and
growth objectives
• To provide updates on
CSR contributions and
community activities
• Press releases
• Media Interviews
• AWN
• AWN
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
87
Sustainability Report
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
PRIORITISING OUR KEY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
The Group utilises a comprehensive materiality assessment process to effectively determine the sustainability issues that
bear the most impact to our operations. Engagements with internal and external stakeholders form a key component of
this process to gain meaningful insights that lead to an objective determination of our sustainability topics.
Risk assessments also play a key role in our consideration, and we leverage on our annual enterprise risk assessment
exercise to help us to accurately identify risks across all our different business functions, including manufacturing, strategic,
financial, legal and compliance related matters, among others.
4
3
1 2
• The SD undertakes detailed research of peer
companies and business trends to develop a robust
list of sustainability topics relevant to the Group's
distinctive operations
• Determine a preliminary list of sustainability topics
with reference to internal & external sources
• The shortlised sustainability matters are then further
assesed through workshop sessions with the
respective HoD
• The focus of each of the shortlisted sustainability
matters are then further prioritised through an
analysis of the significant impacts and potential
influence on stakeholders of the sustainability
matters
• Evaluate and refine the preliminary list of sustainability
topics formulated at the identification stage, aided
by interviews with key internal stakeholders, which
comprise of our senior management team, as well as
via online surveys conducted with employees
• Consider the concerns of the key stakeholders and
the impacts on environment, local community and
the regulations for business operations
• A shortlist of sustainability matters is established after
going through the thorough evaluation process
• Materiality matrix is generated by incorporating the
list of sustainability matters and results of preceding
steps
• The identified material matters are then presented to
the SSC and BOD for review and approval, resulting
in the finalisation of key sustainability matters which
are reported in this SR
• Material sustainability matters are also integrated into
the risk management register to be controlled and
monitored from time to time
IDENTIFICATION
PRIORITISATION
EVALUATION
VALIDATION
Our materiality assessment process is subject to continuous review and refinement as we take into account the evolving
needs of our operations, potential adjustments to our business model and a higher quality of inputs gained from
stakeholders. At the same time, we will keep an eye on emerging global trends and shifts in customer expectations to
ensure our material sustainability matters remain precise and relevant to the industry landscape.
Overview of our materiality determination process
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
88
1
9
5
13
14
15
16
3
11
7
2
10
6
4
12
8
MATERIALITY MATRIX
Subsequent to our materiality determination process, we refine our appreciation of the relative importance of each
identified topic to both our business operations and our stakeholders via a materiality matrix. In re-evaluating our material
matters in FY2022, additional topics were taken into consideration following our assessment of recommended GRI
disclosures pertaining to the agricultural sector. In light of our expansion into cocoa producing regions, we have expanded
our sustainability reporting scope to meet stakeholder expectations and provide greater transparency within key ESG
contexts.
Having identified 16 sustainability matters during the assessment process, we gauged their significance using the Materiality
Matrix, for which our impacts and performance will be disclosed to the best of our ability in this report. Sustainability risks
are integrated into our enterprise risk management and GCB will routinely assess these risks to ensure appropriate control
measures are in place.
Economic Performance
Market Presence
Procurement Practices
Anti-corruption
Anti-competitive Behavior
Energy
Water and Effluents
Emissions
Waste
Employment
Occupational Health and Safety
Non-discrimination
Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining
Child Labour
Forced or Compulsory Labour
Customer Health and Safety
MATERIALITY MATRIX
Low Medium High
Significance of our Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Sustainability Report
1
8
14
2
5 9
13
3
11
15
10
16
4
12
6
7
Economic Social
Environmental
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
89
Sustainability Report
CARING BEYOND COCOA
FOUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
As a major global player in the food processing industry,
we recognise how intrinsically sustainability is tied to
various aspects of our operations and the importance of
setting an exemplary role within the industry. The Group
remains committed towards not only achieving full
compliance with evolving legal regulations and meeting
growing environmental and social expectations, but also
strengthening our sustainability framework to proactively
minimise negative impacts and drive positive change in the
communities where we operate.
To this end, we have established four sustainability pillars
that describe the focus areas in which we are committed to
drive the most positive impact, and through which we will
align our efforts across the Group and provide enhanced
clarity in our reporting framework.
Healthy
Planet
Our first and most vital commitment is to safeguard the health
of our planet to the largest extent possible. As a business that
relies on agricultural resources to provide high-quality cocoa
ingredients and products to consumers around the world,
it is our duty to maintain high standards of responsibility in
achieving this outcome and preserve natural resources for
future generations.
Through our collective and cohesive efforts across the Group,
we are confident of maintaining our business practices, and
the by-product of our operations, in full compliance with
all regulatory requirements and bringing far-ranging value
to the cocoa industry through our initiatives. Considering
the scale of our operations, we believe we can contribute
meaningfully to humanity’s bid to protect our planet and set a
shining example for individuals, businesses and communities
in the many regions where we operate.
In our efforts to enhance climate resilience, we closely
monitor our performance on issues such as energy,
emissions, waste and water, while keeping a keen eye on
the potential impact of climate change on our economic
performance.
We aspire to positively influence sustainable agricultural
production in our supply chains, bringing our knowledge,
technology and resources to the table in establishing high
standards across the global supply chains in which we operate.
In addition to closely adhering to and enforcing regulatory
environmental compliance across all our subsidiaries,
we have implemented overarching Environmental and
Sustainable Development Policies that outline the Group’s
commitments and the foundational initiatives that have been
set up to address them.
We embrace a proactive stance in addressing environmental
matters and staying consistently attuned to evolving global
best practices in our efforts to progressively improve the
traceability of our products and enhance the assessment,
monitoring and engagement of our suppliers.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
90
Sustainability Report
Happy
Employees
Thriving
Communities
Supporting and empowering our people is another key
pillar to our continued sustainable development, as it is
thanks to their ongoing dedication and hard work that
we have been able to achieve robust growth and thrive
in our current position. We thus place great emphasis
on nurturing a committed and motivated workforce
and ensuring a healthy and happy working culture is
developed across all our subsidiaries and operations.
At the same time, we encourage our workforce to
stay competent by providing frequent and valuable
opportunities for their personal and professional
development. Our efforts extend to ensuring the entities
within our supply chain maintain high standards of
business conduct and integrity.
Every aspect of how we treat our employees is founded
upon the idea of respect, with each individual valued
regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, national origin,
religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, age or
differing abilities.
We believe in not only providing job security to our
people, but also investing significant resources into their
personal and professional development through the
provision of a variety of educational, networking and
leadership building opportunities.
We are also cognisant of the responsibility we bear
to support the most vulnerable individuals within our
supply chain. Our Human Rights & Labour Policy and
Procedure reflects our commitment towards addressing
global labour rights challenges and is routinely updated
to communicate updates to laws and regulations to all
business units.
Our responsibility to communities begins from our
provision of cocoa beans and other ingredients that
meet some of the highest food safety standards in the
industry and extends to our development and support
of meaningful philanthropic projects and undertaking of
dedicated CSR activities.
As a leading entity within our industry, we strongly
support ethical and conscientious business practices
within and across our supply chain in order to cascade
positive impacts to the regions in which we operate.
We ensure ongoing compliance to the global food safety
standards, while proactively identifying, reducing and
eliminating potential safety or quality risks throughout
our supply chain, as well as within our production and
distribution channels.
Steps are immediately undertaken to resolve any potential
or actual safety or quality issues identified, with our clients
always remaining assured that mitigative practices are
implemented to prevent reoccurrence.
We support community initiatives by NGOs to
support children and youth in need, focusing on the
dissemination of knowledge, communication tools and
technology to close the digital gap, build knowledge-
based communities and enhance local communities'
standard of living.
As a pillar of the community, it is also our duty to
provide assistance during times of need, such as by
offering recovery support to afflicted families during the
unprecedented flooding events of FY2022.
We safeguard the individuals and communities impacted
by our suppliers by enforcing our Supplier Code of
Conduct to reduce instances of workplace discrimination
and misconduct.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
91
Sustainability Report
Sustainable
Supply Chain
Sustainable procurement is another fundamental area of
focus in which we have greatly expanded our efforts in
tandem with increasing global scrutiny and appreciation
for higher standards of corporate responsibility. We strive
to ensure all our products are sourced responsibly to meet
or surpass the expectations of our customers in line with
our corporate values on environmental responsibility.
At the same time, we believe in doing our part in
cultivating a thriving and sustainable cocoa sector and
have launched a dedicated program that promotes high
standards of responsibility and sustainability within our
supply chain.
Our Sustainable Procurement Policy and Procedure,
and Cocoa Sustainability Program Policy and Procedure
outlines our core procurement principles for selecting
suppliers that maximise long-term value for our
stakeholders while minimizing negative impacts to
society or the environment.
Our GC&B Program outlines our proactive strategies to
support our supply chain in improving farmer income,
protecting the environment, providing responsible cocoa
and benefitting farming communities.
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
92
Healthy Planet Sustainable Supply
Chain
Thriving Communities
Sustainability Report
GUAN CHONG BERHAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Integrated Annual Report 2022
92
Ensuring Product Quality:
• Customer Health and
Safety
Fair Hiring Practices:
• Market Presence
Conscious Water
Management:
• Water and Effluents
Providing a Conducive
Workplace:
• Occupational Health
and Safety
Safeguarding our People:
• Employment
• Child Labour
• Forced or
Compulsory Labour
• Freedom of
Association and
Collective Bargaining
Responsible Cocoa
Supply Chain:
• Procurement Practices
Happy Employees
Tackling Climate Change:
• Energy
• Emissions
CARING BEYOND COCOA
In line with the reporting standards set by GRI, the performance of GCB's CBC program is mapped as the table below:
Growing Sustainably:
• Economic Performance
Responsible Production:
• Waste
Responsible Business Practices:
• Anti-corruption
• Non-discrimination
• Anti-competitive Behavior
