(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Corporate Information
Board of Directors’ Profiles
Profiles of Key Senior Management
Management Discussion and Analysis
Corporate Sustainability Statement
Corporate Governance Statement
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility in Respect of the
Audited Financial Statements
Audit Committee Report
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Other Disclosure Requirements Pursuant to the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities
Directors’ Statement
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
Statements of Financial Position
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income
Statements of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
Group Properties Portfolio
Statistics of Shareholdings
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Statement Accompanying Notice of
Annual General Meeting
Proxy Form
2
3
6
7
10
22
38
39
44
46
48
51
52
56
57
58
59
60
104
107
109
111
CONTENTS
2
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Registered Office in Malaysia
Level 5, Block B
Dataran PHB, Saujana Resort, Section U2,
40150 Shah Alam, Selangor
Telephone No.: + 6(03) 7890 0638
Facsimile No.: + 6 (03) 7890 1032
Stock Exchange Listing
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(Listed since 17 December 2010)
Stock name: HBGLOB
Stock Code: 5187
Website : www.hbglob.com
Head Office
6th Floor, VIDA Bukit Ceylon
1D, Jalan Ceylon,
Bukit Ceylon
50200 Kuala Lumpur
Telephone No.: + 6 (03) 2733 3388
Email: contact@hbglob.com
Website: www.hbglob.com
Auditors
Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.
6001 Beach Road
#14-01 Golden Mile Tower Singapore 199589
Telephone No.: +65 6395 5100
Share Registrar in Malaysia
Boardroom.com Sdn Bhd
Level 5, Block B
Dataran PHB, Saujana Resort, Section U2,
40150 Shah Alam, Selangor
Telephone No.: + 6 (03) 7890 0638
Facsimile No.: + 6 (03) 7890 1032
Principal Bankers
AmBank (M) Berhad
55 Jalan Raja Chulan
50200 Kuala Lumpur
China Construction Bank Corporation
(Ju County Branch)
No. 25, Zhenxin Road
Ju County Shandong Province PRC
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited
(Ju County Branch)
No. 102, Fulai Middle Road
Ju County
Shandong Province PRC
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Keh Chuan Seng （郭泉成主席)
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(appointed on 10 February 2021)
Lee Ping Wei (李彬维)
Executive Director (appointed on 8 February 2021)
Shen Hengbao (申恒宝)
Chief Executive Officer
Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat (拿督邹正杰)
Executive Director (appointed on 1 October 2020)
Yang Chin Shen (杨景升)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ho Pui Hold (何沛豪)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Chee Siang (邱業勝)
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed on 2 September 2020)
Audit Committee
Yang Chin Shen (杨景升) – Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ho Pui Hold (何沛豪) – Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Khoo Chee Siang (邱業勝) – Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Nomination Committee
Ho Pui Hold (何沛豪) – Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Yang Chin Shen (杨景升) – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director)
Khoo Chee Siang (邱業勝) – Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Remuneration Committee
Lee Ping Wei (李彬维) – Chairman
(Executive Director) (appointed on 14 April 2021)
Ho Pui Hold (何沛豪) – Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Yang Chin Shen (杨景升) – Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Company Secretary
Ong Tian Soon
(FA 20122993) Filling Agent under Section 28F of the
ACRA Act 2014
Agent in Malaysia
Boardroom.com Sdn Bhd
Level 5, Block B, Dataran PHB,
Saujana Resort, Section U2,
40150 Shah Alam, Selangor
Registered Office in Singapore
80 Robinson Road, #17-02
Singapore 068898 Republic of Singapore
Telephone No.: + 65 6222 8008
3
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
Keh Chuan Seng (Chairman) (郭泉成主席)
Keh Chuan Seng, a Malaysian, male, aged 49, was appointed as Non-Independent and Non-Executive
Chairman on 10 February 2021. He graduated with Sijil Rendah Pelajaran Malaysia in Sim Min Private School.
Mr. Keh is the founder and the Chairman of Frazel Group of Companies since 1991. He has 14 years of experiences
in property development, hospitality, agriculture, asset investment and financing industry, both locally and
overseas. Mr. Keh is also currently the Committee Member of Kedah Chinese Chamber of Commerce and
Industry which he has built a strong business network with China through his 14 years of business experience.
He is now sit on the Board of EG Industries Berhad, Companies listed on Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
Lee Ping Wei (李彬维)
Lee Ping Wei, a Malaysian, male, aged 31, was appointed as the Executive Director of HB Global Limited on 8
February 2021. He is the Chairman of Remuneration Committee since 14 April 2021. He has more than 10 years’
experience in engineering, construction, property development, telecommunication, energy and utilities
industries serving in various capacity as Project Director and Corporate Finance Director in China GLC listed
companies. He is also the Director and Managing Director in several local IT, energy and utilities companies.
He has managed and completed billions worth of highly claimed projects in China, Hong Kong and Malaysia.
Key achievements:
➢ Hong Kong University,
➢ Shenzhen Airport,
➢ Zhuhai Utilities Project,
➢ Penang Gurney Tower,
➢ Langkawi cable car,
➢ 25- storey Malaysia Assurance Alliance
➢ 21-storey Oriental Bank Headquarter office building,
➢ Museum Langkawi and many prominent projects.
He was the founder and director of C&M Renewable Energy Technology Sdn. Bhd. had successfully embarked
many prominent projects in Malaysia, one of the famous projects was the solar photovoltaic system at USM
Faculty of Engineering located on a parcel of land measuring approximately 364 acres in Nibong Tebal,
Penang worth about RM90 Million. He has in-depth knowledge in corporate finance, engineering, construction,
marketing and information technology. He holds a Diploma in E-Commerce and Marketing and graduated
from Tunku Abdul Rahman University College.
4
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Shen Hengbao (申恒宝)
Shen Hengbao, a national of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), male, aged 59, was appointed as our
Chief Executive Officer on 12 October 2009. He is the founder of our Group and has more than 25 years
of experience in the PRC food industry and export business. He has been spearheading the expansion and
growth of our Group since the commencement of our Group’s business in 2005.
He graduated from Linyi Agricultural Academy in 1982 and obtained his Masters in Business Administration
from the Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in 1998. He also obtained his Masters in
Business Administration from the California American University in 2001.
He started his career with Ju County Foreign Trade Company (莒县外贸公司) in 1982 as the head of department
of livestock obstetrics. He joined Ju County Foreign Trade Canned Food Factory (莒县外贸罐头厂) as the factory
manager in 1990 where he was put in-charge of the day-to-day management. In 1998, he joined Shandong
Foodstuffs Import and Export Company (山东食品进出口公司), a provincial level state-owned enterprise based
in Qingdao as deputy general manager in-charge of overseeing and assisting in the management of several
state-owned companies in Shandong Province which were engaged in the manufacturing of foodstuffs for
export markets, in particular, to Japan.
In 2005, he left Shandong Foodstuffs Import and Export Company and founded Rizhao Hengbao together with
Meng Xiangzhen and several other individuals. With the sales network and contacts he had accumulated in
the course of his career (in particular those with major Japanese food companies), he successfully grew Rizhao
Hengbao into a well established food export company over a short time span.
Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat (拿督邹正杰)
Dato’ Tom Chow, a Malaysian, male, aged 46, was appointed as Executive Director on 1 October 2020. He
graduated in Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia at Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Taman Sea, Petaling Jaya, Selangor
and studying at Southern University, Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA).
Dato’ Tom Chow, the Founder of AgroFresh International Group of Companies, he 14 years of experience was
solely responsible for its dramatic rise in agriculture business, international fruits export market, and plantations
management.
He was appointed as the Managing Director of TSL Agrofresh Sdn Bhd, TSLA is a subsidiary of the TSLAW Group
of companies. Responsible for the management of the TSLAW group’s agricultural planting and production.
He is currently involved in the worldwide sales and marketing of tropical fruits to ASEAN countries. Dato’ Tom
Chow represents a group of companies involved in the production of R&D, tissue-culture, nursery, plantation,
packaging, trading, wholesaling of bananas, and other local tropical fruits produce that are fully exported to
contracted clients from China, Europe, Japan, Korea, and the Middle Eastern countries.
Due to his invaluable positive influences and vast knowledge of agriculture plantations, productions, and many
marketing strategies, he was exclusively appointed as the Marketing Advisor for Kuala Lumpur and Selangor
Fruit Farmers’ Association. With his massive experience in the honest business culture and his involvement
to uplift the livelihood of the society, he was awarded the Hong Kong Distinguished Chinese Award for his
invaluable contribution to the community.
Under his constructive leadership won the prestigious ASEAN Outstanding Industrial Class Award for Tropical
Fruits development. His vision and guidance are the critical success factor.
As a result of his immense familiarity with the sciences of agricultural and agronomics, he was highly sought
after and was appointed as a member of the Industry/Community Advisory Panel of Universiti Sains Malaysia
(USM) and Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM) Putra Paradize Project Director.
In 2019, Dato’ Tom Chow was appointed as the Business Development Director (S.E.A) of Hebei Zhongyun
Investment Group of China, and he may take charge of the group’s plantations & related business and
development and supervise the daily operational works in all the regional offices in Cambodia and Vietnam.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES (cont’d)
5
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Yang Chin Shen (杨景升)
Yang Chin Shen, a Malaysian, male, aged 44, was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director on
28 February 2014. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee of the Company. He is a Practicing Member of the Institute of Singapore Chartered
Accountants (ISCA), and also a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) and holds a Bachelor
of Business in Accountancy from Queensland University of Technology, Australia (with Distinction).
He has over 20 years of international audit experience including 10 years with the Big Four firms in Malaysia,
Singapore and USA, and 6 years with small and mid-sized firms.
He brings along extensive experiences in servicing both multinationals and local companies in wide variety of
industries such as property developers, hotels, real estate investment trusts, credit cards, retail, semiconductor,
investment companies, retail malls, manufacturing, construction, hospitals, plantations, steel mills, education,
statutory board, software, trading, logistics, shipping and leasing.
Ho Pui Hold (何沛豪)
Ho Pui Hold, a Malaysian, male, aged 39, was appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director on 18
September 2015. He is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Audit Committee
and Remuneration Committee of the Company. He is an Accountant by profession, a fellow member of the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA), United Kingdom, a member of Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA) and a member of Asean Chartered Professional Accountant (ACPA).
Mr Ho has many years professional experience in auditing, banking and corporate finance. He started his career
in 2004 by joining a Singapore advisory firm as IPO consultant where he participated in a few successful listing
of companies in Singapore Exchange Limited (“SGX”). He then joined Ernst & Young as Senior Audit Associate
until 2009 before he left to join AmBank (M) Berhad – Corporate & Institutional Banking. In the bank, he was
responsible in client credit evaluation and marketing of the Bank’s products mainly in debt capital market,
offshore loan syndication, corporate finance advisory & treasury products. To further advance his career, he
took up the chief financial officer position in a foreign company listed on Bursa Securities until 2013. He now sits
on the board of Permaju Industries Berhad, Milux Corporation Berhad and Malaysia Pacific Corporation Berhad,
Xidelang Holdings Limited Companies listed on Main Market of Bursa Securities.
Khoo Chee Siang (邱業勝)
Khoo Chee Siang, a Malaysian, male, aged 45, was appointed as Independent and Non-Executive Director on
2 September 2020. He is a member of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Audit Committee of
the Company. He is an Accountant by profession, a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (FCCA).
Mr Khoo Chee Siang was the Executive Director of UHY Advisory (KL) Sdn Bhd, a boutique financial and corporate
advisory firm from 2008 to 2016. He started his career in auditing with an international medium accounting
firm, Morison Anuarul Azizan Chew & Co and was subsequently promoted to Senior Consultant in Corporate
Finance and Advisory Department. He later joined Finmart Alliance Sdn Bhd as an Associate Director in-charge
of corporate finance and business advisory services. He has significant experience in corporate finance, initial
public offerings, corporate debt restructuring as well as his external auditing experience covered various sectors.
Currently, he is the Managing Director of Eco Asia Capital Advisory Sdn Bhd, a licensed corporate finance
advisor by Securities Commission Malaysia.
He is now sit on the Board of GPA Holdings Berhad, Chin Hin Group Property Berhad, Green Ocean Corporation
Berhad and Seer Berhad, Companies listed on Bursa Securities. Also, Exsim Capital Resources Berhad and Exsim
Ventures Berhad, non-listed public companies.
Note :
Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors hold directorships in any other public companies, have any
family relationship with any director and / or major shareholder of the Company nor any conflict of interest
with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences,
if any and has not been imposed any public sanction or penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the
financial year ended 31 December 2020.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES (cont’d)
6
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Ang Kong Siang
Ang Kong Siang, a Malaysian, male, aged 48, was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company on 1
December 2013. He is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA), United
Kingdom and a member of Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) and holds a Master Science of Finance
from University of Portsmouth (UK).
Mr Ang has accumulated over 7 years of professional experience in auditing and corporate advisory. Prior
to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, he was the group accountant for few private
companies and Chief Financial Officer for companies listed in Singapore and Malaysia.
Mr Ang does not hold any directorships in any public companies. He has no relationship with any Director and/or
major shareholder(s) of the Company. He does not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has no
conviction of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and has not been imposed
any public sanction or penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 December
2020.
PROFILES OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
7
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
On behalf of the Board of Directors of HB Global Limited (“HB Global” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries
(collectively known as “the Group”), it gives me great pleasure to present the Annual Report and the Audited
Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW
HB Global is primarily dealing with Foods Processing business which specialise in the research & development,
and manufacturing of variety Ready-To-Serve foods (“RTS”). These include market survey and foods design &
development to suit their local living style. The Group was initially established to venture into foods processing
business which mainly oriented for export market. Meanwhile in 2009, the Group’s applied listing status to the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia and expand its core business to include poultry farming business in year 2011.
Underpinned by its fundamental principle to provide affordable foods products with high qualities and unique
favor, HB products cater to a wide variety of users, from hypermarket, tourist market, food stalls to common
residential houses. The Group’s business operations comprise of 2 main business units:-
1) Food Processing
Processing, packaging and producing various types of foods are the primary business activities in the Group.
2) Duck Farming
Rearing and trading of livestocks activities were initially set up to support the supplies of raw material which
had constraint from the suppliers to expand the food processing segment in year 2009.
The Group has two (2) 100%-owned subsidiaries as follows:
100% owned Subsidiaries:
a) Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd. (“SHF”) – the main operating plant situated in China
b) Juxian Hengbao Farming Co., Ltd. (“JHF”) – has ceased operation
As the main subsidiary, SHF is principally involved in the design, research & development of RTS products and
marketing activities, while JHF are rearing and trading of livestock and currently has ceased operation.
2020 Performance Overview
HB Group’s revenue had decreased by RMB59.6 million or approximately 37.8% from RMB157.5 million in financial
year ended 31 December 2019 (“FYE2019”) to RMB97.9 million in financial year ended 31 December 2020
(“FYE2020”). The decreased was mainly due to decrease in demand on products during the Covid-19 outbreak
since early 2020. The Group achieved a net loss before taxation of RMB45.3 million in FYE2020 as compared to
profit before taxation of RMB16.8 million in FYE2019 mainly due to written off of property, plant and equipment
and low revenue generated in FYE2020 as a result of Covid-19 outbreak.
Expectation
The global economy has remained weak in 2020 and with the prolonged trade disputes and market protectionism
imposed by various countries, businesses can only be more challenging. However, we continue to sharping our
portfolio not only invest in our product quality but also in review on several, further investment opportunities.
To accelerate the future development in innovation and technology, we are expanded our possibilities, and
extended our supply chain partnerships to ensure the stability and sustainability.
Developing solutions to meet fast-changing economic environment and consumer needs. Most of the long-term
trends we have been working on still apply. Extended of the market segment and product segment, particularly,
digital engagement and demand for the health and wellness.
With the effect by the pandemic, we are now also focusing on the final consumer has been rapid shift toward
at-home consumption. With consumer behaviour progressing quicker than ever, we are adapting to this new
reality by reinforcement on our innovation, leveraging our digital capabilities and executing with speed.
As the economic consequences of the pandemic have intensified, we have also revitalised our affordable
ready to serve food from wholesale to final consumer.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
8
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Financial Review
Our revenue decreased by RMB59.6 million or approximately 37.8% from RMB157.5 million in financial year ended
31 December 2019 (“FYE2019”) to RMB97.9 million in financial year ended 31 December 2020 (“FYE2020”). The
decreased was mainly due to decrease in demand on products during the Covid-19 outbreak since early 2020.
Gross Profit (“GP”) decreased from RMB44.8 million in FYE2019 to RMB0.7 million in FYE 2020. GP margin decreased
from 28.5% in FYE2019 to 0.7% in FYE2020. This was mainly due to lower production volume and higher cost of raw
materials and transportation.
Due to the impact of Covid-19 outbreak, the People's Republic of China Government had initiated financial
assistance to special categories of industries such as food industries to avert any possible financial crises in the
near future. As such, one of our subsidiary companies has obtained waiver from bank borrowing amounted
RMB14.4 million which caused increase in other income for FYE2020.
Selling and distribution expenses decreased by RMB0.9 million or approximately 42.9% from RMB2.1 million in
FYE2019 to RMB1.2 million in FYE2020 which is in line with decrease in revenue.
General and administration expenses remain relatively constant at RMB27.1 million in FYE2020 as compared to
RMB27.9 million in FYE2019. The general and administrative expenses mainly consist of depreciation of property,
plant and equipment and amortisation of land use rights, land tax and employee salaries.
Other operating expenses increased by RMB58.9 million in FYE2020 which represented 100.0% from FYE2019
mainly due to written off of property, plant and equipment and construction in progress as there is no such
expense in FYE2019.
The Group achieved a net loss before taxation of RMB45.3 million in FYE2020 as compared to profit before
taxation of RMB16.8 million in FYE2019 mainly due to written off of property, plant and equipment and low
revenue generated in FYE2020 as a result of Covid-19 outbreak.
Operations Review
HB Global expenditure can be categorised into five components, i.e. costs of sales, selling and distribution
expenses, administrative expenses, other expenses and finance costs.
The year under review saw costs of sales taking up the highest percentage of the Group’s expenditure at 51.5%.
Duck farming segment was originally a major segment of the Group’s operations after successful listing in Bursa.
As this segment had been badly affected by bird flu, low pricing and tight competition in nature which led to
gross losses in the past few years and shown no sign of recovery, management had taken a stringent measure
to cease the duck farming operation since July 2016 and will continuously look for lessee to generate some flow
of income to the Group.
In recognising the volatile nature of the currency market and change in end consumers behavior, HB has
effective contingency plans on hand to mitigate such risks. Management adopt a tight control operating model
to minimise costs and introduce technology to improve efficiency in our operations.
A Cautiously Pessimistic Future
With the Covid-19 pandemic still raging globally and causing unprecedented disruption to economic activity,
the Group continues to prioritise cash conservation and cost control as well as to continue to focus on increase
the consumption of our products among consumers in People's Republic of China.
Besides, sustainability remains a top priority for the Group. Our Group will stay agile and keep the interests of our
consumers and safety of our people at the forefront.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (cont’d)
9
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The performance of our Group for the new financial year ending 2021 will remain challenging with the current
uncertainty in the global and local economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Board is cautious
on the potential impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and will continue to manage the business of our Group with
vigilance during this period of uncertainty.
If this unprecedented health and economic crisis can be improved in the near term with the vaccination,
our Group expects that the performance of our Group will also be improved for the financial year ending 31
December 2021.
Declaration of Dividends
With the current financial position and further unknown challenges ahead, in view of financial prudence, no
dividend is to be declared.
Appreciation
At HB Global, we would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to all our stakeholders who have supported us
through the years. These include our valued customers, business associates, vendors, relevant authorities,
bankers and financiers and investors. The Group also takes this opportunity to acknowledge the contributions
of our amazing management and staff members who have worked tirelessly to help us attain our goals as well
as the Board of Directors for their invaluable time and guidance. We look forward to your continued support in
the coming year.
Keh Chuan Seng
Chairman
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (cont’d)
10
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
BOARD STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
The Board is pleased to present HB Global Limited (“HBGL”)’s financial year 2020 Sustainability Report. HBGL and
its subsidiaries (“Group”) aims to be the trusted investment choice in the processing , packaging and producing
various types of foods through delivering excellence and creating value for our stakeholders. We strive to
integrate sustainability into our operations. This report shall details how we identify and manage economic,
environmental, social, and governance (EESG) issues that are important to our stakeholders and us.
MCO disruption
GREATER CHINA
Since the outbreak of COVID-19, employees of the Shandgong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd overcame various
difficulties to ensure the supply chain stability and play a positive role of producing of foods during epidemic
prevention and control. The Group still suffer from the restriction of the export and the reducing of the order form
some major customer.
Nevertheless, the China becomes first major economy to recover from Covid-19 pandemic. The national
economy is expected to be the only G20 economy to grow this year. The global economy is slated to contract
by 4.4%, according to the International Monetary Fund, the steepest downturn since the Great Depression.
China Policymakers released targeted stimulus measures from tax cuts and lower interest rates to credit local
governments and cheaper lending for businesses.
We are expected most cities have returned to normal with schools and offices reopened. Before a new outbreak
in the eastern province of Shandong, the country had gone almost two months without any new locally
transmitted cases. China has officially reported 4,634 coronavirus deaths and more than 85,000 confirmed cases.
Data showed industrial production in September rose 6.9% compared to the same period last year. Retail sales
were up 3.3%. Auto sales for the month also increased 12.8% while domestic air travel exceeded pre-pandemic
levels. Consumer spending has begun to pick up again, illustrated by a resurgence in tourism during a week-
long public holiday in October known as Golden Week.
MALAYSIA
On 31st January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO), due to growing fears about the rapid spread of
coronavirus, announced a global epidemic and on 11th March, the disease was recognised as a pandemic. On
16 March 2020, Prime Minister of Malaysia- Muhyiddin Yassin made an official speech and officially promulgated
the movement control order under the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Act 1988 and the Police
Act 1967. On 18 March, Malaysia began the implementation the movement control order (MCO). On 25 March,
the prime minister through a live national broadcast announced a first extension of the MCO to last until 14 April.
The MCO impact the economic environment in Malaysia including retails, supply chain and many other factors.
The management is in the process of assessing the impact of COVID-19 Pandemic since ongoing developments
remain uncertain and cannot be reasonably predicted as the date of reports.
We strive to integrate sustainability and business continues into our operations. This report details how we
identify and manage economic, environmental, social, and governance (EESG) issues that are important to our
stakeholders and us.
In the future, the Board of Directors and senior management of the HBGL will continue to deepen the concept of
sustainable development, actively advance the practices of sustainable development and make unremitting
efforts to achieve long-term benefits for stakeholders.
Board Assurance
With the disruptions of MCO due from COVID-19. We not only believe strong sustainability governance is critical to
our success but also the business impact analysis and business continues management should be implemented
and considered by the Board.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
11
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Board understand that we are plays an important role in the selection and review of economic,
environmental, social and governance (EESG) factors that are material to us and oversees the management
and the performance relating to these factors.
Implementation of ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY. (AB & C )
On 1 June 2020, Corporate liability under Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act (MACC) to be enforced. HBGL
published AB & C and pledge that we do not condone bribery and corruption and expects its Directors, employees
and business associates to adhere to the same principle in their business conduct with or on behalf of HBGL.
Board Assurance
We believe strong sustainability governance is critical to our success. The Board plays an important role in the
selection and review of economic, environmental, social and governance (EESG) factors that are material to
us and oversees the management and the performance relating to these factors. This report is in compliance
with the listing requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad [paragraph 9.45(2) and paragraph (29), Part A
of Appendix 9C of the Main Market Listing Requirements (supplemented by Practice Note 9) and references the
internationally recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (2016), Integrated Reporting <IR>.
Sustainability Initiatives
As an established group, we are committed to contribute to a Safety & Healthy in the various types of ready-to-
serve food, frozen vegetables and others food and by using innovative technologies and adopting sustainable
practices. We recognise the potential negative impacts our operations and activities may have on society and
the environment and seek to mitigate those impacts by implementing relevant measures.
These measures include establishing comprehensive monitoring systems, streamlining our work processes, adopting
efficient and sustainable manufacturing process methods as well as utilising sustainable materials. To reduce our
environmental footprint, we encourage our employees to use reduce the wastage of materials, to reduce the
noise generated by our activities, to use less paper in the workplace and to decrease the utilisation of water. We
also work closely with our stakeholders to identify opportunities for improving our sustainability performance.
We strive to contribute to local communities by supporting various meaningful initiatives. We actively pursue our
social responsibility through sponsorships and campaigns carried out with other charitable organisations and
associations.
In order to improve our environmental and occupational health and safety standards in our workplace, we
provide relevant occupational health and safety (OHS) training to staff, workers and whether in-house or through
external trainers.
We will continue to report on our sustainability journey as we continue to create sustainable value for our
stakeholders in the coming years.
On behalf of the board of directors of HBGL, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all of employees who
stick to their posts, to public and private customers who are willing to help each other, and to all shareholders
who share weal and woe, and to the Chinese government and all sectors from society for their support.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
12
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
About This Report
HB Global Limited (“HBGL”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), are devoted to creating a business that contributes
towards convenient living for the global society. This sustainability report demonstrates the best practices, effort
and initiatives that the Group had undertaken to address our organisation’s impacts on the local economy,
society, environment and governance.
Reporting Scope
The scope of reporting for this sustainability statement covers the activities of our trading and manufacturing
operations involved in procesing, packing and producing various types of ready to serve foods, frozen
vegetables and other manufacturing. Details of the Group’s trading and manufacturing facilities are shown in
the table below
Building / No. of Buildings / Locations
Office 3 - Singapore
- Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
- Ju County, Rizhao City, Shandong Province, the PRC
Factory cum Office 1 - Ju County, Rizhao City, Shandong Province, the PRC
This report has been prepared for the reporting period from 1stJanuary 2020 to 31st December 2020.
Reporting Framework
The Group prepared Sustainability Statement in 2018 & 2019 in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad’s Sustainability Reporting Guide. The format adopted is in line with the recommended Global Reporting
Initiatives (GRI) 4.0 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This year the Group also decided to adopt Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) as part of the report.
DEFINING OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
HBGL places strong emphasis on “Safety &
Healthy” and strives to deliver top-quality and
innovative products, services and content
through sustainable business practices. As such,
we continuously seek opportunities to incorporate
sustainability into our Group’s long- term growth
and development goals.
In embedding sustainability practices into our
day-to-day business operations, in financial year
ended 31 December 2020 (“FY 2020”), we have
developed the Group’s vision that is based on
Capitals mention in Integrated reporting
Marketplace
Implementing sustainability through
product quality and safety
Workplace
Creating a safe and supportive
working environment.
Environment
Improving our environment by utilising
greener alternatives.
Community
Contributing to local community
development.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
13
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
SIX CAPITAL OF HBGL
At HBGL, we understand the sustinability initiave, the board recognise the ESG value chain. Through HBGL’s
business value-creation model, we recognise and enhance the value creation align with sustinability initiative,
we not only look into profit creation but value creation.
The Corporate Sustainability Statement has evolved over the year to address the fast-changing environmental
and business landscape. It embraces the framework by the international integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
to make business and financial sense of Sustainability performance. The Six Capital model has reinforce our
sustainability strategy, policies and practices and is aligned to global best standard including the UN Sustainable
Development Goals(SDGs). This year HBGL redefine interaction model to Six Capital, which entails our roles as
manufacturer & trader and a corporate citizen that continues to create sustained value for our business and
stakeholders
Manufactured
Capital
Organisational
Capital
Human
Capital
Social Capital
Natural Capital
Financial
Capital
Financial Manufactured Organisational
Funds available to firm from
operations and financing
Manufactured physical objects
used in value creation
Governance, Internal control
system and procedures
Financial Highlight
Resources to sustain the company
from operations to support other
capitals
Marketplace
Implementing sustainability through
product quality and safety
Governance
Board engagement on strategy,
internal control to enhance the
sustainability initiative
Human Social Natural
Skills, motivation, alignment with
organisational goals
Relations with key institutions,
stakeholder groups, shared norms
and values, trust and confidence,
and its social license to operate
Renewable and non-renewable
natural elements, and the eco-
system, used as inputs by the firm
now or in the past or future, and
impact of firm on them
Workplace
Creating a safe and supportive
working environment, training and
self-development
Community
Contributing to local community
development
Environment
Improving our environment by
utilising greener alternatives.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
14
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
HBGL views sustainability as an important aspect in our Group. The Group has established a systematic and
comprehensive governance structure to ensure successful attainment of all our sustainability targets and goals
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Executive Directors
Sustainability Committee
Purchasing Finance
Human Resources Production Service Quality Control
Sales & Marketing Logistics
Assisted by Chief
Financial Officer
In FY 2020, HBGL formed a two-tier
governance structure whereby the
Executive Director, assisted by the Chief
Financial Officer, reports directly to the
Board of Directors. The Board of Directors
leads the structure in determining the
sustainability journey and overseeing
the execution of sustainability within the
Group
We have also established a dedicated
Sustainability Committee as part of the
governance structure, with the key
functionofdevelopingandimplementing
the Group’s sustainability strategy.
There is no significant change during the
year
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
Board of Director
* Monitors overalls
progress and efforts
carried out by the
Sustainability
Committee.
* Provides final approval
on sustainability-related
matters presented by
the Executive Director
Executive Director
* Report overall
sustianbility progress.
* Provides
recommendations to
the Boards of Directors
on sustainabiity strategy
and initiatives that are
most relevant to the
company.
Roles and
Responsibilities
Sustainability Comittee
* Coordinate daily
activities and implement
company-wide
sustainability initiatives.
* Plays key role in
intergrating sustianability
elements across the
company's value chain,
form innovation
to retail
15
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TABLE
As part of our commitment to build sustainable business, we strive to build good relationships with our stakeholders
as they offer valuable insights into the business, allowing us to identify areas and opportunities for improvement.
Therefore, it is important for us to engage them on a regular basis in order to gather their feedback and address
any concerns they may have.
We have identified our key stakeholder groups and seek to engage them through various methods and channels,
which are summarised in the table below:
Stakeholder Interest/Expectation Engagement methods (Frequency)
Investor • Group financial
performance
• High financial return
• Global business strategy
• Sustainable and stable
distribution
- Annual general meetings (Annually)
- Annual reports (Annually)
- Quarterly interim financials (Quarterly)
Consumers
(End users)
• Best practices in product
pricing
• Licensed manufacturing
• Product quality
• Prompt after sales service
• Efficient complaints
resolution
- Pricing product to commensurate with product
quality (Ad hoc, upon new product or model launch)
- Prompt after sales service (Daily, via service team)
- Prompt response to calls for service (Daily, via hotline,
e- mail, Facebook, Company’s website)
Consumers
(Dealers)
• Efficient complaints
resolution
• Customer-Company
relationship management
• Safety and security
• Timely product delivery
- Regular client meetings through sales team (Monthly
visit)
- Feedback channel through sales team (Face-to
face meeting on monthly visit and feedback via
annual survey/ Participate in all regional electrical
associations dinner/gatherings)
- Community and networking events (Annually, attend
state association annual dinners to build rapport)
- Direct access of the logistic team to our customers
during the delivery process to ensure prompt delivery
(daily, update of delivery details for outstation
customers to sales personnel)
Local
Communities
• Social issues
• Impact of business
operations
- Community engagement (Annually)
- Corporate Social Responsibility programmes
(Annually)
Regulatory
and Statutory
Agencies
• Governance compliance
• Labour practices
• Occupational safety and
health
• Environmental management
and compliance
- Inspection by local authority (Annually)
- Annual report (Annually)
- General meeting between management and
regulators (Ad hoc when required)
- Direct meetings (Ad Hoc)
Suppliers • Transparent procurement
practices
• Payment schedule
• Pricing of services
• Timely delivery of materials/
products
- Evaluation and performance (Annual supplier review)
- Contract negotiation (Ad hoc, when applicable)
- Vendor registration (Ad hoc, upon vendors’
appointment)
- Timely delivery (Per delivery basis)
- Payment to supplier (Per delivery & on agreed terms)
Industry Peers • Best practices in the industry
• Utilising current technology
and systems
- Collaboration programs (Monthly informal gathering)
- Sharing of best practices (Participate in food
exhibitions & fairs locally and overseas)
Employees • Work-life balance
• Career development
- Training (on going)
- Appraisal (Annually)
- Annual dinner (Annually)
- Safety Training (Annually, Ad hoc when required)
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
16
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
MATERIALITY MATRIX
We conducted materiality assessment to identify sustainability topic that were of significant relevance to our
business and stakeholders. In 2020 we carried out a review to reassess the material topics identified. While
conducting the review, we examined trends and developments within the industry as well as global and local
sustainability issues.
The material topic in 2020 are listed in the table below:
Material Sustainability Matter Relevant Stakeholders Applicable GRI indicators
D- Product Quality Management Supplier and Customers Product Service and Labelling
E- Product Safety Supplier and Customers Product Services and Labelling
H- Training and Development Employees Training and Education
L- Occupational health and Safety Employees and Regulatory
Agencies
Occupational Health and Safety
O- Energy Consumption Regulatory Agencies and Local
Communities
Energy
P- Effluents and Waste Regulatory Agencies and Local
Communities
Waste and Effluence
Financial Highlight - Resources to sustain the company from operations and supportive to others capitals
For the year ended 31 December 2020 (FY 2020), the Group achieved a revenue of RMB 97.9 million, a decrease
of 37.85% against the previous corresponding period (FY 2019: RMB 157.4 million). Its loss for the year was RMB45.2
million (FY 2019: profit of RMB 16.8 million). It is due to lower contibution from the manufacturing operation, lock
down due to the COVID-19 and the China-US trade war impact.
However, the group remain positive cash flow of RMB 0.18 million a decrease of 88.54% against the previous
period (FY 2019: RMB 1.57 million).
Please refer to HBGL’s Annual Report 2020 for our full financial performance report.
Medium High Critical
Medium High Critical
Importance to Stakeholders
Importance to Business Operations
Economy Environment Social
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H I
J
K
M
N
O
Q
R
P
L
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
17
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Marketplace - Implementing sustainability through product quality and safety
As a China-based internationally recognised OEM manufacturer of ready to serve food and frozen vegetables.
HBGL has contributed towards the growth of both local and global market place
PRODUCT QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Each of HBGL product is manufactured in accordance to the highest standard of quality management. Our
Product Quality is consistently well maintained. We ensure that Work instructions and Standard operating
procedures are followed by our manufacturing workers from Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd in Ju County.
Our subsidiary that involve in processing, packaging and producing ready to serve foods and frozen vegetables.
Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd, have obtained quality certification for our products that comply with ISO
9001:2015 and many other Certification.
Product Certificate:
Certificate
ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System
ISO 22000:2018 Food safety management Systems
HACCP- Hazard analysis and critical control points
FDA (US) - Food and Drug Administration Certification
BRC (UK) – British Retail Consortium Refrigerated and frozen food Certification
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
18
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
Governance - Board engagement on strategy, internal control to enhance the sustainability initiative
In HBGL, we are aware of the importance of Good Governance. We implemented the Risk Management
& strategies that would able disclosing appreciate information concerning sustainability and improving the
transparency of its management, by reducing risks through pre-emptive measures, so that the company gives
its customers and other stakeholder as well as communities and the public as a whole – greater confidence in
HBGL.
Please also refer to SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TABLE & MATERIALITY MATRIX
Workplace - Creating a safe and supportive working environment.
Occupational Safety and Health (“OSH”)
An occupational safety and health (OSH) policy is in place to protect all employees against possible occupational
risks and prevent accidents from happening in the workplace. Information on the OSH policy is provided to all
employees and new employees are informed of the policy during the Occupational Safety and Health (OSH)
induction programme. For new employees, the First-Day OSH induction programme provides an overview of the
OSH policy implemented by the Group
This year we do not received any staff complaint or dispute. The company had reviewed the incidents and
improves the policy from time to time to reduce the injury to the minimum.
Employment
In HBGL, we are committed to providing our employees with a working environment free from unlawful
discrimination, irrespective of race, colour, sex/gender, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, marital status, or any other classification protected by law. We seek to support women, minorities,
veterans and individuals with disabilities and strive to empower all our employees to reach their full potential.
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
We strive to create a culture that promotes diversity and equality in the workplace. Having a diverse and
inclusive workforce allows us to attract the best of the talent pool and, in turn, helps us to improve our bottom
line. Improving diversity and equality is also crucial to the achievement of social and economic development
goals.
All our employees are employed based on skills and experience through fair selection processes. Each year, our
employees receive feedback about their performance through performance reviews, which are conducted in
a fair and transparent manner.
Management philosopy
Company Policy
Risk Management
& Strategies
Achieve
Business Goals
Increase
Corporate Value
19
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Training and Development
In HBGL, we provide various learning opportunities throughout employees’ careers to ensure that they develop
the skills needed to perform their responsibilities. We believe that our people play an important role in ensuring
that we achieve operational and safety excellence. Therefore, we continue to invest in our human capital and
support employee development to meet changing business needs.
Our employees receive training from both internal & external sources. These training includes those that are
mandatory or on a voluntary basis to ensure they are equipped with relevant skills to perform their jobs. They
are also encouraged to obtain certifications that allow them to perform specific tasks or to operate particular
machines.
Environment - Improving our environment by utilising greener alternatives.
Energy Efficiency & CO2 Emission
Diesel and electricity account for a large proportion of our total energy consumption, resulting in the production
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission such as carbon dioxide (CO2) which can have a detrimental impact on the
environment. Therefore, we strive to reduce our energy consumption and carbon footprint by promoting the use
of renewable energy and improving our energy efficiency.
The Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd (Manufacture division) are the major contributor of that contribute the
GHG emissions. We take the initiative to monitor and reduce the CO2 emissions. This is the first year we monitor this
indicator. Total GHG emission are using the factor of 1 L of gasoline produces approximately 2.3 kg of CO2.
Water
High level of water usage put significant strains on water resources and result in wastewater pollution that
could lead to the degradation of water quality. Poor water quality and water stress can compromise important
ecosystem services and affect the quality of the life of local communities.
In HBGL, although there is significant water usage, we are committed to reducing our total water consumption
by promoting the water saving.
Effluent and Waste
Improper disposal of effluents, which contain substantial quantities of chemical and nutrients (principally
nitrogen, phosphorous or potassium) affects water quality and has significant impact on the ocean’s biodiversity
and aquatic ecosystems. Similarly, poor waste management can lead to air, water and soil pollution, which
poses a threat to the environment and human health. The generation of excessive waste from manufacturing
activities can put strains on our natural resources and ultimately leads to environmental degradation.
Community - Contributing to local community development
CUSTOMER SERVICES
HBGL's management philosophy “Safety and Healthy” has been to contribute to society through its products
and services while always putting the customer first. Based on this philosophy, the company strives to improve
customer satisfaction and offers products, solutions, and services that enrich the lives of people around the
world.
When providing customer service, our customer services officer strives for sincerity, accuracy, and speed, and
acts with humility and appreciation. This finds its basis in the principle of " Safety and Healthy" in line with the
Group’s vision. The company's fundamental stance is thus to provide customers with trusted products, hence
contributing to peace of mind, and satisfaction.
We conduct customer satisfaction survey to understand our customer. Based on analyses of the survey results,
the company follows a cycle of improvement, as follows: Draft plans for improvement initiatives → Execute these
initiatives → Verify progress → Survey (evaluate) customer satisfaction. The company works to improve customer
satisfaction by implementing improvements to products, system solutions and services by making the most of the
results of the survey, in cooperation with manufacturing divisions such as product planning, design, engineering,
and quality, and customer support divisions such as marketing, sales, construction, and maintenance services.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
20
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We recognise that our business success is also dependent on support from the local community. Therefore, we
are committed to giving back to the community via various programmes and channels such as roadshow,
voluntary donation, sponsorship through charity bodies and product sales to keep our negative impacts to a
minimum and to improve our positive impacts to local communities.
Since ongoing remain uncertain and unable be reasonably predicted as the Conditional MCO (“CMCO”)
extended until 31 December 2020. This year most of us suffer for the difficult time. Due to the Covid-19 Pandemic
SOP to maintain the social distance, we were unable to carry out any community engagement including
donation.
However, we are still continuing seek to build good relationships with the community and the public by sharing
our experiences at industry events and forums. We also aim to help increase the pool of talent in the industry by
sharing our expertise.
Relationship with SDGs
SDGs Main Activity Detailed information
No Poverty - -
Zero Hunger - -
Good Health and Well-being HBGL provide safe working
environment
- Governance Capital
- Marketplace
- Workplace
Quality Education Training and development for
staff
- Workplace
Gender Equality No Employment policy
discrimination
- Workplace
Clean Water and Sanitation Promoting water saving - Marketplace
Affordable and Clean Energy Using LED & Solar power
system
- Environment
Decent Work and Economic Growth Quality control and
management
- Marketplace
Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure Non-toxic Product innovation - Marketplace
Reducing Inequality Employment policy of no
discrimination
-Workplace
Sustainable Cities and Communities Community relationship and
engagement
- Community
Responsible Consumption and
Production
Promise to deliver of Quality,
safety product
- Marketplace
- Community
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
21
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
LOOKING FORWARD
Sustainability Report provide alternative channel to communicate and disclose information to our stakeholders.
We are committed to doing business in an ethical and transparent manner as a public listed company. We have
a zero-tolerance policy towards fraud, bribery, corruption, money laundering and the financing of terrorism. We
are achieving our target by implementing Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
The management has closely monitored the development progress of the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic
(“COVID-19”) infection in China and Malaysia. That may affect and impact on the sustainability such as business
performance, financial performance and financial position of the Group and of the Company mainly due to
travel and movement restriction and other precautionary measures imposed by relevant local authorities that
affected the on-going Group’s activities and the Company business operations.
As at the date of this report, the sustainability impact of the COVID-19 outbreak to the Group and to the
Company cannot be reasonably estimated due to the inherent unpredictable nature and rapid development
relating to COVID-19, the extent of the impact depends on the on-going precautionary measures introduced by
each country to address this pandemic and the durations of the pandemic. As such, the management of the
Company will continue to closely monitor the situations and respond proactively to mitigate the impact on the
Group’s activities and the Company’s sustainable issues
Supply chains are under enormous pressure, with companies looking to ensure continuity and address dislocation
of workers who have been laid off or furloughed. Companies also need to preserve our supply chains to meet
the eventual return of consumer demand.
With the disruption of COVID-19 and MCO, we understand the Business Continues Management (BCM) is
important to an organisation to handle the crisis and natural disaster. The Board currently are reviewing the
Business Impact Analysis (BIA) and the Stress Test of the Company to minimise the impact to our business and
industry.
Health and well-being are rising on the major concern. Beyond the obvious need to ensure that the virus is
tamed as quickly as possible, business has more incentive to look after both the physical health, but also the
well-being of colleagues who are navigating an unexpected and difficult time. Strategic investments in staff
healthy pay dividends.
Companies with healthier supply chains have more workforces that are productive, are better able to serve
customers, and help consumers to live longer, more fulfilling lives, resulting in thriving communities. This work has
taken on even greater importance in the context of the coronavirus.
HBGL strives to continuously update and improve our sustainability initiative in order to accomplish our goal of
becoming a sustainable industry leader.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (cont’d)
22
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Board is committed to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance is practised throughout HB
Global Limited (“HB Global” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) in discharging its responsibilities
with integrity, transparency and professionalism, to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the financial
position of the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and fully supports the principles and best
practices promulgated in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG”) to enhance business
prosperity and maximise shareholders’ value. The Board will continuously evaluate the Group’s corporate
governance practices and procedures, and where appropriate will adopt and implement the best practices as
enshrined in MCCG to the best interest of the shareholders of the Company.
Below is a statement and description in general on how the Group has applied the principles and complied
with the best practice provisions as laid out in MCCG throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2020
pursuant to Paragraph 15.25 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”)of Bursa Securities
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
• Board Leadership on Objectives and Goals
Strategic Aims, Values and Standards
The Group is led and controlled by an effective Board. The Board provides strategic direction for the Group and
regularly meets to review corporate strategies, resolve operational affairs and monitor the financial performance
of the Group.
The Board assumes responsibility for the effective stewardship and control of the Group and its members have
established a term of reference to assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities. The Board regularly reviews
the Group’s business operations, management performance and also ensure the necessary resources are in
place.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, which includes the overall Group
strategy and direction, investment policy, major capital expenditures, consideration of significant financial
matters and review of the financial and operating performance of the Group.
The management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors of the Company, are
responsible for managing the day-to-day running of the business activities in accordance with the direction and
delegation of the Board. The management meets regularly to discuss and resolve operational issues. The Chief
Executive Officer and Executive Director brief the Board on business performance and operations as well as the
management initiatives during quarterly Board’s meetings.
The Board is entrusted with the responsibility to promote the success of the Group by directing and supervising
the Group’s affairs. Hence, to develop corporate objectives and position descriptions including the limits to
management’s responsibilities, which the management are aware and are responsible for meeting.
The Board understands the principal risks of all aspects of the business that the Group is engaged in recognising
that business decisions require the incurrence of risk. To achieve a proper balance between risks incurred and
potential returns to shareholders, the Board ensures that there are in place systems that effectively monitor and
manage these risks with a view to the long term viability of the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
23
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The principal roles and responsibilities assumed by the Board are as follows:
• Review and adopt strategic plan of the Group
The Board plays an active role in the development of the Group’s overall corporate strategy, marketing plan
and financial plan. The Board has presented the short and long-term strategy of the Group together with
its proposed business plans for the forthcoming year. The Board also monitors budgetary exercises which
support the Group’s business plan and budget plan.
• Implementation of internal compliance controls and justified measures to address principal risks
The Board is fully alert of its responsibility to maintain a proper internal control system. The Board is responsible
for the Group’s internal control system including financial condition of the business, operational, regulatory
compliance as well as risk management matters.
• To formulate and have in place an appropriate succession plan
The Board is responsible to formulate and have in place an appropriate succession plan encompassing the
appointment, training, and determination of compensation for senior management of the Group, as well
as assessing the performance of Directors and Committee members and, where appropriate, retiring and
appointing new members of the Board and Executive Directors.
The Board has entrusted the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee with the duty to review
candidates with required mix of skills and experience for the Board and to determine remuneration packages
for these appointments, and to formulate nomination, selection and remuneration for the Group.
• Developing and implementing an investor relations program or shareholder communications policy for the
Group
The Board recognized that shareholders and other stakeholders are entitled to be informed in a timely and
readily accessible manner of all material information concerning the Company through a series of regular
disclosure events during the financial year. Hence, the Company website is the primary medium in providing
information to all shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board will normally hold meetings at least four (4) times in each financial year to consider:
i) relevant operational reports from the management;
ii) reports on the financial performance;
iii) specific proposals for capital expenditure and acquisitions, if any;
iv) major issues and opportunities for the Company, if any; and
v) quarterly financial statements for announcement to authorities.
In addition, the Board will, at intervals of not more than one (1) year:
i) approve annual financial statements, and other reports to shareholders;
ii) consider and, if appropriate, declare or recommend the payment of dividends;
iii) review the Board composition, structure and succession plan;
iv) review the Company’s audit requirements;
v) review the performance of, and composition of Board committees;
vi) undertake Board and individual Board member evaluations;
vii) review Board remuneration; and
viii) review risk assessment policies and controls and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The roles and responsibilities of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors are clearly
defined and properly segregated. All the Independent Non-Executive Directors are independent of the
Executive Directors, management and major shareholders of the Company, and are free from any business or
other relationship with the Group as well as not get involved into the daily operation and administration that
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. This offers a strong check and
balance on the Board’s deliberations.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
24
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Executive Directors are responsible for the overall performance and operations as well as the corporate
affairs and administrations of the Group. They are assisted by the senior management personnel of the Group
in managing the business activities of the Group in the manner that is consistent with the policies, standards,
guidelines, procedures and/or practices of the Group and in accordance with the specific plans, instructions
and directions set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer holds the principal obligations in focusing, guiding, addressing, supervising,
regulating, managing and controlling as well as communicating the Company’s goals and objectives, as well
as all significant corporate matters, corporate restructuring plans, business extension plans and proposals. The
Chief Executive Officer, assisted by other Executive Director, is also responsible for proposing, developing and
implementing applicable and relevant new policies and procedures.
TheIndependentNon-ExecutiveDirectorsoftheCompanyplay a keyrolein providingunbiased andindependent
views, advice and contributing their knowledge and experience toward the formulation of policies and in the
decision-making process. The Board structure ensures that no individual or group of individuals dominates the
Board’s decision-making process. Although all the Directors have equal responsibility for the Company and
the Group’s operations, the role of the Independent Directors are particularly important in ensuring that the
strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are deliberated on and have taken into account the interest, not
only of the Company, but also that of the shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the community.
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to three (3) Board Committees namely
the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee. All the Board Committees have
its own terms of reference and has the authority to act on behalf of the Board within the authority as lay out in
the terms of reference and to report to the Board with the necessary recommendation.
Independent Chairman
The MCCG recommends that the Board of Directors of a public listed company should be composed of a
majority of independent directors where the Chairman of the Board is not an independent director. Currently,
the Chairman of the Board is now filled by Mr Keh Chuan Seng as Non-Independent and Non- Executive
Chairman with effect from 10 February 2021. He has the obligation to preside at various meetings, namely the
shareholders’ general meetings and the Board meetings.
The Board of Directors of the Company, notwithstanding that the role of the Chairman is current assumed by
the Non-Independent and Non-Executive, is of the opinion that the element of independence which currently
exists is adequate to provide assurance that there is a balance of power and authority on the Board. In addition,
the presence of the three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors are sufficient to provide the necessary
checks and balances on the decision-making process of the Board. The contributions of the Independent Non-
Executive Directors in the decision-making process is evidenced in their participation as members of the various
committees of the Board.
The Board therefore believes that balance of power and authority exists within its current structure to sufficiently
enable it to discharge its duties objectively.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
Company Secretary will attend all Board and Committee meetings and is responsible for the proper maintenance
of records of the discussions on key deliberations and decisions taken during the Board and Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary renders necessary assistance to the Board and ensures meeting procedures are
followed and the applicable laws and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary shall keep himself abreast with the development and new changes in relation to any
legislation and regulations concerning the corporate administration and to highlight the same to the Board of
Directors accordingly.
Company Secretary’s responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees
and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating orientation and assisting
with professional development as required.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
25
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Board Committees
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to the following three (3) Board
Committees:
a) Audit Committee (“AC”);
b) Nomination Committee (“NC”); and
c) Remuneration Committee (“RC”).
All the Board Committees have its own terms of reference and has the authority to act on behalf of the Board
within the authority as lay out in the terms of reference. These Committees are formed in order to enhance
business and operational efficiency as well as efficacy. The Chairman of the respective Committees will report
to the Board the outcome of the Committees meetings for the Board’s considerations and approvals. The Board
retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Company and the Group.
Access to Information and Advice
Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each meeting confirming the venue, time, date and agenda of the meeting
together with relevant Board papers shall be forwarded to each director no later than two (2) days before the
date of the meeting. This is to ensure that Board papers comprising of due notice of issues to be discussed and
supporting information and documentations were provided to the Board sufficiently in advance. Furthermore,
Directors are given sufficient time to read the Board paper and seek any clarification as and when they may
need advisers or further explanation from management and Company Secretary. The deliberations of the Board
in terms of the issues discussed during the meetings and the Board’s conclusions in discharging its duties and
responsibilities are recorded in the minutes of meetings by the Company Secretary.
The Board has unrestricted access to all information within the Company as a full Board to enable them to
discharge their duties and responsibilities and is supplied on a timely basis with information and reports on
financial, regulatory and audit matters by way of Board papers for informed decision making and meaningful
discharge of its duties.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible
for ensuring the Board’s meeting procedures are adhered to and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. In addition, external advisers are invited to attend meetings to provide insights and professional
views, advice and explanation on specific items on the meeting agenda, when required. Senior management
team from different business units are also invited to participate at the Board meetings to enable all Board
members to have equal access to the latest updates and developments of business operations of the Group
presented by the senior management team. The Chairman of the Board Committees, namely, the Audit
Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee briefs the Board on matters discussed as
well as decisions taken at the meetings of their respective Board Committees meetings.
When necessary, Directors may whether as a full Board or in their individual capacity, seek independent
professional advice, including the internal and external auditors, at the Company’s expense to enable the
directors to discharge their duties with adequate knowledge on the matters being deliberated, subject to
approval by the Chairman of the Board, and depending on the quantum of the fees involved.
• Demarcation of Responsibilities
Board Charter
As part of governance process, the Board has adopted a Board Charter which sets out the composition and
balance, roles and responsibilities, operation and processes of the Board. The details of the Board Charter are
available for reference at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
26
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
• Good Business Conduct and Corporate Culture
Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board is committed in maintaining a corporate culture which engenders ethical conduct. The Company
has established the Code of Conduct and Ethics, which summarise what the Company must endeavour to do
proactively in order to increase corporate value, and which describes the areas in daily activities that require
caution in order to minimise any risks that may occur. The details of the Code of Conduct and Ethics are available
for reference at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com
Whistle-blowing Policy
The Company has established the Whistle-blowing Policy, with the aim to provide an avenue for raising concerns
related to possible breach of business conduct, non-compliance of laws and regulatory requirements as well
as other malpractices. The details of the Whistle-blowing Policy are available for reference at the Company’s
website at www.hbglob.com
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
• Board’s objective
Board Composition and Balance
The Board is committed in ensuring that its composition not only reflects the diversity as recommended by
MCCG, as best as it can, but also the right mix of skills and balance to contribute to the achievement of the
Group’s goal and business objectives.
The Board of HB Global comprises of seven (7) members of whom three (3) are Executive Directors, three
(3) are Independent Non-Executive Directors, one (1) is Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors thereby
meeting the minimum one-third (1/3) requirement for independent directors to be appointed to the Board as
required under the Listing Requirements
The current composition of the Board provides an effective Board with a mix of industry specific knowledge,
broad based business and commercial experience together with independent judgement on matters of
strategy, operations, resources and business conduct. The combination of professionals with diverse and varied
backgrounds, wealth of experience and expertise in finance and corporate affairs also enables the Board to
discharge its responsibilities effectively and efficiently. The profiles of the Directors and Key Senior Management
are set out in this Annual Report.
Tenure of Independent Directors and Policy of Independent Director’s Tenure
Currently, the Board does not have a formal policy on the tenure for Independent Director as the Board is of
the view that a term of more than nine (9) years may not necessary impair independence and judgement of
an Independent Director and therefore the Board does not deem it appropriate to impose a fixed term limit for
Independent Director at this juncture.
However, as recommended by the MCCG, the tenure of an Independent Director should not exceed cumulative
term of nine (9) years. Upon completion of the nine (9) years, an Independent Director may continue to serve
on the Board subject to the re-designation of the said person as a Non-Independent Director. In the event the
Board intends to retain such Director as Independent Director after the latter has served a cumulative term of
nine (9) years, the Board must justify the decision and seek annual shareholders’ approval. If the Board continues
to retain the Independent Director after the twelfth (12) years, the Board will seek annual shareholders’ approval
through a two-tier voting process.
During the financial year under review, none of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had
served the Company for more than nine (9) years as per recommendation of MCCG.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
27
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
New Candidates for Board Appointment
The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the recommendations of
the Nomination Committee. As a whole, the Company maintains a very lean number of Board members. New
appointees will be considered and evaluated by the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee will
then recommend the candidates to be approved and appointed by the Board. The Company Secretary will
ensure that all appointments are properly made, and that legal and regulatory obligations are met.
Generally, the Board adopts a flexible approach when selecting and appointing new Directors depending upon
the circumstances and timing of the appointment. The Nomination Committee will help assess and recommend
to the Board, the candidate of Directors, appointment of Directors to Board Committees, review of Board’s
succession plans and training programmes for the Board.
In assessing suitability of candidates, consideration will be given to the core competencies, commitment,
contribution and performance of the candidates to ensure that there is a range of skills, experience and diversity
(including gender diversity) represented in addition to an understanding of the Business, the Markets and the
Industry in which the Group operates and the accounting, finance and legal matters.
In general, the process for the appointment of director to the Board are as follows:
i) The Nomination Committee reviews the Board’s composition through Board assessment/evaluation;
ii) The Nomination Committee determines skills matrix;
iii) The Nomination Committee evaluates and matches the criteria of the candidates, and will consider diversity,
including gender, where appropriate;
iv) The Nomination Committee recommends to the Board for appointment; and
v) The Board approves the appointment of the candidates.
Factors considered by the Nomination Committee when recommending a person for appointment as a director
include:
i) Skills, knowledge, expertise and experience;
ii) the merits and time commitment required for a Non-Executive Director to effectively discharge his or her
duties to the Company;
iii) the outside commitments of a candidate to be appointed or elected as a Non-Executive Director and the
need for that person to acknowledge that they have sufficient time to effectively discharge their duties; and
iv) the extent to which the appointee is likely to work constructively with the existing Directors and contribute to
the overall effectiveness of the Board.
Boardroom Diversity
The Board acknowledges the importance of boardroom diversity and is supportive of the recommendation of
MCCG to the establishment of boardroom and workforce gender diversity policy. However, the Board does
not adopt any formal boardroom diversity policy in the selection of new Board candidates and does not
have specific policies on setting target for female candidates in the Group. The Group basically evaluate the
suitability of candidates as new Board member or as a member of the workforce based on the candidates’
competency, skills, character, time commitment, knowledge, experience and other qualities in meeting the
needs of the Group, regardless of gender. Equal opportunity is given and does not practise discrimination of any
form, whether based on age, gender, race and religion, throughout the organisation. Nevertheless, the Board
will evaluate and match the criteria of the potential candidate as well as considering the boardroom diversity
for any new proposed appointment of Directors of the Company in the future.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
28
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The existing Directors’ age distribution falls within the respective age group and are as follows:
Age Group 31-40 41-50 51 & above
Number of Directors 2 4 1
The current diversity in the race/ethnicity and nationality of the existing Directors are as follows:
Number of Directors
Race/Ethnicity Nationality
Malay Chinese Indian Others Malaysian Foreign
0 7 0 0 6 1
Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies
The directorships in other public listed companies in Malaysia held by any Board member at any one time shall not
exceed any number as may be prescribed by the relevant authorities. In addition, at the time of appointment,
the Board shall obtain the Director’s commitment to devote sufficient time to carry out his responsibilities. Directors
are required to notify the Chief Executive Officer before accepting any new directorship(s). The notification
would include an indication of time that will be spent on the new appointment(s). Any Director is, while holding
office, at liberty to accept other Board appointment in other companies so long as the appointment is not in
conflict with the Company’s business and does not affect the discharge of his/her duty as a Director of the
Company. To ensure the Directors have the time to focus and fulfill their roles and responsibilities effectively, one
(1) criterion as agreed by the Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than five (5) public listed
companies as prescribed in Paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements.
Each Board member is expected to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings in any applicable
financial year with appropriate leave of absence be notified to the Chief Executive Officer and/or Company
Secretary, where applicable.
The Directors have demonstrated their ability to devote sufficient time and commitment to their roles and
responsibilities as Directors of the Company. The Board is satisfied with the level of time and commitment given
by the Directors of the Company towards fulfilling their duties and responsibilities. This is evidenced by the
attendance record of the Directors as set out in the section below.
Board Meetings and Attendance
There were five (5) Board of Directors’ meetings held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020. Details
of the attendance of the Directors at the Board of Directors’ meetings are as follow:
Name of Director Total Meetings Attended Percentage of Attendance
Keh Chuan Seng N/A N/A
Shen Hengbao 5/5 100%
Meng Xiangzhen
(resigned w.e.f. 29 March 2021)
4/5 80%
Yang Chin Shen 5/5 100%
Ho Pui Hold 5/5 100%
Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat N/A N/A
Khoo Chee Siang N/A N/A
Lee Ping Wei N/A N/A
All the Directors complied with the minimum 50% attendance requirement in respect of Board meetings
held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 as stipulated under Paragraph 15.05 of the Listing
Requirements. The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by the Directors of the Company
towards fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
29
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Board meets on a quarterly basis, with amongst others, review the operations, financial performance, reports
from the various Board Committees and other significant matters of the Group. Where any direction or decisions
are required expeditiously or urgently from the Board between the regular meetings, special Board meetings
maybe convened by the Company Secretary, after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer. Additionally,
in between Board meetings, the Directors also approved various matters requiring the sanction of the Board by
way of circular resolutions.
The proceedings and resolutions concluded at each Board meeting are recorded in the minutes of the meetings,
which are kept in the Minutes Book at the Company’s registered office in Singapore.
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, the tentative dates for Board and Board Committee meetings will be
notified by the Company Secretaries well in advance to ensure that each of the Directors is able to attend the
planned Board and/or Board Committee meetings including that of the Annual General Meeting.
Continuing Education Programs
All Directors appointed to the Board except Mr. Lee Ping Wei, have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation
Program (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Mr. Lee Ping Wei has already registered for MAP which to be
held on 28-30 June 2021 and Anti-Bribery Training which to be held on 10 May 2021. Although the Board does
not have a policy requiring each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year,
the Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/conferences and shall as
such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of the latest development in statutory
laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate, in line with the changing business environment and
enhance their business acumen and professionalism in discharging their duties to the Group.
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by a few Board members during the financial
year as listed below:
Name of Director Seminars/Conferences/Training Programmes Attended
Yang Chin Shen • Internal Policies, Procedures and Controls (IPPC)
• Mandatory Anti-Money Laundering/ Combating Financing of Terrorism Internal
Policies, Procedures and Controls (IPPC)
• Amendments to SFRS(I) 16 Covid-19 Related Rent Concessions
• Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current
• Annual Improvement to SFRS(I)s 2018-2020
• Bridging Audit Gap part 1
• Bridging Audit Gap part 2
• Bridging Audit Gap part 3, and
• Amendments to SFRS(I) 9, SFRS(I) 1-39, SFRS(I) 7, SFRS(I) 4, and SFRS(I) 16 – Interest
Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
Ho Pui Hold • S17A Corporate Liability Webinar
• Overview: Section 17A Corporate Liability on Corruption
• COVID 19 impact on Financial Reporting and Internal Controls
• Managing Your Fraud Risk: Are you Doing Enough, and
• Awareness ISO 9001:2015, Intro on Implementation
Khoo Chee Siang • The New Social Media Driven Business Model and its implication to the Capital
Market
• Thematic Investing Consumption Megatrends affecting the Global Economy
• Covid-19 Impact on Revenue, Inventory and Related Costs in respect of Dealings
with Customers
• Covid-19: Impact on Financial Instuments
• Quality Assessment Review on Internal Audit Activities
• Enterprise Risk Management – Principles of 1S031000 and 2017 updates on ERM
Framework
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
30
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Board will on continuing basis evaluate and determine the training needs of each Director, particularly
on relevant new law and regulations and essential practices for effective corporate governance and risk
management to enable the Directors to effectively discharge their duties. Saved as disclosed above, other
Directors of the Company were not able to select any suitable training programmes to attend during the financial
year due to their busy work schedule. However, they have constantly been updated with relevant reading
materials and technical updates, which will enhance their knowledge and equip them with the necessary skills
to effectively discharge their duties as Directors of the Company.
In addition to the above, the Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas of statutory
and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal Auditors and the Company
Secretary during the Committee and/or Board meetings.
Nomination Committee
As recommended by MCCG, the Company has established the Nomination Committee comprising exclusively
of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The role of the Nomination Committee is to assess and recommend the
candidates who have an optimal mix of qualifications, skills and experiences, including core competencies to
the Board. The Nomination Committee is required to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board, each Committee
of the Company and also to assess the contribution of each Director in relation to the effectiveness of the
Board’s decision-making process on an annually basis.
The present members of the Nomination Committee are:
Chairman		
Ho Pui Hold		 - Independent Non-Executive Director
Members		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Chee Siang - Independent Non-Executive Director
The Nomination Committee will meet at least once per year unless otherwise determined by the Nomination
Committee. The quorum of the Nomination Committee meeting shall be at least two (2) members and comprised
a majority of independent directors.
The Board has stipulated specific Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee, which covers following
salient functions:
i) assessing and recommending to the Board the candidate of directors, appointment of directors to Board
Committees;
ii) reviewing of Board’s succession plans and training programmes for the Board;
iii) undertaking the assessment of the Board, Board Committees and individual directors on an on-going basis;
and
iv) undertaking annual assessment of the independence of independent directors in the Board beyond the
independent director’s background, economic and family relationships but considering they can continue
to bring independent and objective judgment to Board deliberations.
The Nomination Committee may, as it deems fit, call for any appropriate person(s) to be in attendance to make
presentations or furnish or provide independent advice to the Nomination Committee on any matters within the
scope of responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.
com. The summary of activities undertaken by the Nomination Committee during the financial year included
the following :
i) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Board, as a whole, Board Committees and individual Directors and make
appropriate recommendation to the Board;
ii) Reviewed and recommended the retirement and re-election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association; and
iii) Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment of Independent Non-Executive Director who has served
a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
31
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
• Overall Board Effectiveness
Evaluation for Board, Board Committees and Individual Directors
The Nomination Committee would conduct an assessment of the performance and effectiveness of the Board,
as a whole, Board Committees and individual Directors, based on an annual assessment. From the results
of the assessment, including the mix of skills and experience possessed by Directors, the Board will consider
and approve the recommendations on the re-election and re-appointment of Directors at the Company’s
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, with a view to meeting current and future requirements of the Group.
ThecriteriausedbytheNominationCommitteeinevaluatingtheperformanceofindividual,includingcontribution
to interaction, integrity, competency and time commitment of the members of the Board and Board Committees
in discharging their duties, are in a set of questionnaires. The independence of Independent Directors is assessed
based on their relationship with the Group and their involvement in any significant transactions with the Group
including their ability to exercise independent judgment at all times and based on the criteria set out in the
Listing Requirements. The Board did not engage any external party to undertake an independent assessment
of the Directors.
Based on the assessment conducted for the financial year 2020, the Board and the Nomination Committee are
satisfied with the current size, composition as well as the mix of qualifications, skills and experience among the
Board members and the level of independence demonstrated by all the Independent Directors and each of
them continues to fulfil the definition of independence as set out in the Listing Requirements.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, one-third (1/3) of the Directors shall retire by rotation
from office at every Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and they shall be eligible for re-election at such AGM.
The Directors to retire shall be the Directors who have been serving in office for the longest duration since their
appointment or last re-election. All Directors are subject to retire from office at least once in every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next
Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
Upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and the Board, the Directors who are standing for
re-election and re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held in 2021 are as stated in
the Notice of AGM.
PART III – REMUNERATION
• Level and Composition of Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
In line with the Best Practices of the MCCG, the Board has set up a Remuneration Committee which comprise
majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors in order to assist the Board for determining the Director’s
remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to establish a formal and transparent procedure
for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual
Directors. The remuneration of Directors shall be the ultimate responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee meet at least once a year and when required and is entrusted, among others,
with examining the remuneration packages and other benefits of the Executive Directors. The contribution,
responsibilities and performance of each Executive Director is taken into account when determining their
respective remuneration packages. The quorum of the Remuneration Committee meeting shall be two (2)
members and comprised a majority of independent directors. However, the ultimate responsibility to approve
the remuneration of these Directors remains with the Board as a whole. The Executive Directors are not involved
in any decisions with regard to their own remuneration.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
32
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The present members of the Remuneration Committee are as follow:
Chairman		
Lee Ping Wei - Executive Director
(Appointed on 14 April 2021)
Members		
Ho Pui Hold		 - Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Appointed on 14 April 2021)
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
The past members of the Remuneration Committee are as follow:
Chairman		
Khoo Chee Siang - Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Resigned on 14 April 2021)
Members		
Shen Hengbao - Chief Executive Officer
(Resigned on 14 April 2021)
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
The summary of activities undertaken by the Remuneration Committee during the financial year included the
following:
i) Reviewed and recommended the payment of Directors’ fees to Non-Executive Directors; and
ii) Reviewed and recommended the Executive Directors remuneration package.
Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to establish a formal and transparent procedure for
developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
The Board believes in a remuneration policy that fairly supports the Directors’ responsibilities and fiduciary
duties in steering the Group to achieve its long-term goals and enhance shareholders’ value. The Board offers
a competitive remuneration package in order to attract, develop and retain talented individuals to serve as
directors.
The Remuneration Committee’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board
a remuneration policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry practice. The
Remuneration Committee also recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based on their
individual performances and that of the Group.
• Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management
Directors’ Remuneration
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as a whole. The
level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by other comparable organisations,
adjusted for the experience and levels of responsibilities undertaken by the particular Non- Executive Directors
concerned. The remuneration package of Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be deliberated by the
Board, with the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting on deliberations in respect of his
individual remuneration. In addition, the Company also reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred
by all the Non-Executive Directors in the course of their duties as Directors of the Company. The aggregate annual
Directors’ fees are to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on recommendations
of the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
33
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The remuneration of the Executive Directors was determined fairly based on the performance and the profitability
of the Group as a whole. The Directors’ remuneration is at the discretion of the Board, taking into account the
comparative market rates that commensurate with the level of contribution, experience and participation of
each Director. The overriding principle adopted in setting the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors
by the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the Company attracts and retains the appropriate Directors
of the caliber needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable to all Directors of the Company (both by the Company
and the Group) for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Director
Company Group
Fees (RMB’000)
Salaries and
other emoluments
(RMB’000)
Fees (RMB’000)
Salaries and
other emoluments
(RMB’000)
Khoo Chee Siang 33 N/A 33 N/A
Shen Hengbao N/A N/A N/A 1,000
Meng Xiangzhen N/A N/A N/A 400
Yang Chin Shen 149 N/A 149 N/A
Ho Pui Hold 124 N/A 124 N/A
Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat 25 N/A 25 N/A
Lee Ping Wei N/A N/A N/A N/A
Keh Chuan Seng N/A N/A N/A N/A
Total 331 N/A 331 1,400
Remuneration of Top Five (5) Employees
The total remuneration received by top five (5) employees of the Group including salary, bonus, benefits in- kind
and other emoluments in bands width of RMB50,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 are as
follows:
Name Range of Remuneration
RMB50,001
to RMB100,000
RMB100,001
to RMB150,000
RMB150,001
to RMB200,000
RMB200,001
to RMB250,000
RMB250,001
to RMB500,000
Ang Kong Siang X
Liu Fuliang X
Tian Zongwang X
Chen Caixia X
Yao Zhifang X
Details of total remuneration received by the above employees are not disclosed in this report as the Board is of
the view that the above remuneration disclosure by band satisfies the accountability and transparency aspects
of the MCCG.
TheBoardensuresthattheremunerationofthetop5employeescommensuratewiththeirindividualperformances
and level of responsibility as well as the demands, complexities and performance of the Company, with due
consideration to attract, retain and motivating the employees.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
34
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is relied upon by the Board to, amongst others, provide advice in the areas of financial
reporting, external audit, internal control environment and internal audit process, review of related party
transactions as well as conflict of interest situation. The Audit Committee also undertakes to provide oversight on
the risk management framework of the Group.
Chairman of Audit Committee
The current composition of Audit Committee comprises of three (3) members, all of whom are Independent
Non-Executive Directors. The Audit Committee is chaired by an Independent Director and the positions of
the Chairman of the Board and Audit Committee are held by separate individuals. All members of the Audit
Committee are relatively financially literate, while the Chairman of Audit Committee is a member of Malaysian
Institute of Accountants.
Former Key Audit Partner
None of the Board member nor the Audit Committee were former key audit partner of the External Auditors
appointed by the Group. The Company will observe a cooling-off period of at least two years in the event any
potential candidate to be appointed as a member of the Audit Committee was a key audit partner of the
external auditors of the Group.
Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Audit Committee has established a transparent and appropriate relationship with the Company’s External
Auditors. From time to time, the Auditors will highlight to the Audit Committee and the Board on matters that
require the Board’s attention.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services
provided by the External Auditors. The Audit Committee has been explicitly accorded the power to communicate
directly with both the External Auditors and Internal Auditors. The terms of engagement for services provided by
the External Auditors are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to submission to the Board for approval. The
effectiveness and performance of the External Auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
To assess or determine the suitability and independence of the External Auditors, the Audit Committee has taken
into consideration of the following:
(i) the adequacy of the experience, competence and resources of the External Auditors;
(ii) the External Auditor’s ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely
manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
(iii) the nature of the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and fees paid for such services relative
to the audit fee; and
(iv) whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence
of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of the External Auditors.
Annual appointment or re-appointment of the External Auditors is via shareholders’ resolution at the AGM on
the recommendation of the Board. The External Auditors are being invited to attend the AGM of the Company
to response and reply to the shareholders’ enquiries on the conduct of the statutory audit and the preparation
and contents of the audited financial statement.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the competence and independence of the External Auditors for the
financial year under review. Having regard to this, the Board approved the Audit Committee’s recommendation
for the shareholders’ approval to be sought at the AGM on the reappointment of Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan &
Co., as the External Auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
35
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Composition of the Audit Committee
In line with the best practices of MCCG, the Board has set up the Audit Committee which comprising exclusively
of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The present members of the Audit Committee are as follows:
Chairman		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
Members		
Ho Pui Hold		 - Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Chee Siang - Independent Non-Executive Director
All members of the Audit Committee are relatively financially literate and have relevant experience to carry out
their duties. The terms of reference and summary of activities of the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit
Committee Report in this Annual Report.
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
• Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system of internal
control, which covers not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls as well as risk
management, and the need to review its effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’ investments
and the Company’s assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and emerging risks, respond
appropriate to risks of the Group.
As an effort to enhance the system of internal control, the Board together with the assistance of external
professional Internal Audit firm adopted on-going monitoring and review to the existing risk management process
in place within the various business operations, with the aim of formalising the risk management functions across
the Group. This function also acts as a source to assist the Audit Committee and the Board to strengthen and
improve current management and operating style in pursuit of best practices.
As an ongoing process, significant business risks faced by the Group are identified and evaluated and
consideration is given on the potential impact of achieving the business objectives. This includes examining
principal business risks in critical areas, assessing the likelihood of material exposures and identifying the measures
taken to mitigate, avoid or eliminate these risks.
The information on the Group’s internal control is further elaborated on the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of this Annual Report.
• Internal Audit Functions
The Group has appointed an established external professional Internal Audit firm, which reports to the Audit
Committee and assists the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems whilst
ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of controls and risks throughout the Group in achieving its business
objectives.
Further details of the activities of the internal audit function are set out in the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control and Audit Committee Report in this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
36
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PART I – COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
• Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders
The Board recognized the need for transparency and accountability to the Company’s shareholders as well
as regular communication with its shareholders, stakeholders and investors on the performance and major
developments in the Company. The Company ensures that timely releases of the quarterly financial results,
press releases and corporate announcements are made to its shareholders and investors, which are clear,
unambiguous, succinct, accurate and contains sufficient and relevant information.
In order to maintain its commitment of effective communication with shareholders, the Group embrace the
practice of comprehensive, timely and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the
general investing public.
The practice of disclosure of information is to adopt the best practices recommended in the MCCG with regard
to strengthening engagement and communication with shareholders, it is not only established just to comply
with the Listing requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Group also endeavour to provide additional disclosures of information on a voluntary basis, where necessary.
The management believes that consistently maintaining a high level of disclosure and extensive communication
is vital to shareholders and investors in making informed investment decisions.
Leverage on Information Technology for Effective Dissemination of Information
In its efforts to promote effective communication, the Board recognized that timely and equal dissemination of
consistent and accurate information are provided to them through public announcements made throughout
the year to Bursa Securities. The shareholders and members of the public are also invited to access the Group’s
website at www.hbglob.com for the latest information on the Group.
The quarterly financial results are announced via Bursa Link after the Board’s approval. This is important in ensuring
equal and fair access to information by the investing public.
Shareholders and investors may also forward their queries to the Company via email to contact@hbglob.com.
Dialogue with Shareholders
In addition to the dissemination of information to shareholders and other interested parties via announcements
to Bursa Securities, its website, circulars and press releases, the Board is of the view that the annual and any
extraordinary general meetings as ideal opportunities to communicate with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer or the Executive Directors of the Company will brief shareholders on the Company’s
projects and elaborate further on proposals for which the approval of shareholders is being sought at the
general meeting.
Whilst the Company aims to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders, it is also mindful of the
legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price-sensitive information.
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
• Encourage Shareholders’ Participation at General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders. As recommended
by the MCCG, the notice of AGM will be dispatched to shareholders at least twenty eight (28) days before the
AGM, to allow shareholders to have additional time to go through the Annual Report and make the necessary
attendance and voting arrangements. The notice of AGM, which sets out the business to be transacted at the
AGM, is also published in a major local newspaper. The Board will ensure that each item of special business
included in the notices of the AGM or extraordinary general meeting is accompanied by a full explanation of
the effects of any proposed resolution.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
37
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
At the AGM, the Board will brief the shareholders on the progress and performance of the Group and the
shareholders are encouraged to participate in the questions and answers session there at, where they will be
given the opportunity to raise questions or seek more information during the AGM. Informal discussions between
the Directors, senior management staff, the shareholders and investors are always active before and after the
general meetings.
Attendance of Directors at General Meetings
The tentative dates of the AGM will be discussed and fixed by the Board in advance to ensure that each of the
Directors is able to make necessary arrangement to attend the planned AGM.
At the Thirteenth (13th) AGM of the Company held on 7 August 2020, majority of Directors were present in person
to engage directly with shareholders, and be accountable for their stewardship of the Company.
Poll Voting
In line with Paragraph 8.29A of the Listing Requirements, the Company will ensure that any resolution set out in
the notice of any general meeting, or in any notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended
to be moved at any general meeting, is voted by poll. At the same time, the Company will appoint at least one
(1) scrutineer to validate the votes cast at the general meeting.
Effective Communication and Proactive Engagement
The Group maintains its effective communication with shareholders by adopting timely, comprehensive, and
continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the general investing public and adopts the
best practices recommended by the MCCG with regards to strengthening engagement and communication
with shareholders.
To this end, the Group relies on the following channels for effective communication with the shareholders and
stakeholders:
i) Interim financial reports to provide updates on the Group’s operations and business developments on a
quarterly basis;
ii) Annual audited financial statements and annual report to provide an overview of the Group’s state of
governance, state of affairs, financial performance and cash flows for the relevant financial year;
iii) Corporate announcements to Bursa Securities on material developments of the Group, as and when
necessary and mandated by the Listing Requirements; and
iv) Annual General Meetings.
Shareholders and stakeholders may raise their concerns and queries by contacting the Registered Office of the
Group, the details of which as provided under the “Corporate Information” section of this Annual Report. The
Share Registrar is also available to attend to administrative matters relating to shareholder interests.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Saved as disclosed above, the Board is of the view that the Group has complied with and shall remain committed
to attaining the highest possible standards through the continuous adoption of the principles and best practices
set out in MCCG and all other applicable laws, where applicable and appropriate.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (cont’d)
38
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements for each financial year to give a true
and accurate view of the financial state of the Group and the Company and of the results and cash flows of
the Group and the Company for the financial year ended.
In ensuring the preparation of these financial statements, the Directors have observed the following criteria:
• Overseen the overall conduct of the Company’s business and that of the Group;
• Identified principal risks and ensured that an appropriate system of internal control exists to manage these
risks;
• Reviewed the adequacy and integrity of Internal Controls System and Management Information System in
the Company and within the Group;
• Adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Ensured compliance with the applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting and other records are closed with reasonable
accuracy at any time reflecting the financial position of the Group and ensuring that the financial statements
comply with the Listing Requirements, applicable approved accounting standards and other legal requirements.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
minimise fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31
December 2020, the Group has used the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently and
supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates. The Directors also consider that all applicable
approved accounting standards have been complied with and further confirm that the financial statements
have been prepared on a going concern basis.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY IN RESPECT OF THE AUDITED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of HB Global (“the Company”) is pleased to present the Audit Committee
Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”).
Composition of Audit Committee
In line with the best practices of MCCG, the Board has set up the Audit Committee which comprising exclusively
of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The present members of the Audit Committee are as follows:
Chairman		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
Members		
Ho Pui Hold - Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Chee Siang - Independent Non-Executive Director
Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as follows:
1. Membership
(i) The Audit Committee shall be appointed by the Board.
(ii) It shall comprise at least three (3) members who must be Non-Executive Directors, with a majority of
them being Independent Directors.
(iii) The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be appointed by the Audit Committee amongst the
members of the Audit Committee themselves and shall be an Independent Director.
(iv) If the number of members is reduced to below three (3) as a result of resignation or death of a member,
or for any other reason(s), the Audit Committee shall, within three (3) months of that event, appoint
amongst such other directors, a new member to make up the minimum number required herein.
(v) At least one (1) member of the Audit Committee:
(a) must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”); or
(b) if he/she is not a member of the MIA, he/she must have at least three (3) years working experience
and :-
• he/she must have passed the examinations specified in Part I of the 1st Schedule of the
Accountants Act 1967; or
• he/she must be a member of one of the associations of accountants specified in Part II of the 1st
Schedule of the Accountants Act 1967.
(c) must possess such qualifications as may from time to time be prescribed by the Bursa Securities.
(vi) An alternate director is not eligible for membership in the Audit Committee.
2. Authority
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference. The
Audit Committee shall have unlimited access to both the internal auditors and external auditors as well as
all employees of the Group. The Audit Committee shall also have the authority to obtain independent legal
or other professional advice and to secure attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise
if it considers this necessary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
40
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
3. Duties and Responsibilities
(i) To review with the internal auditor their audit plans, the reports and the system of internal control.
(ii) To review the adequacy of scope, functions and resources of the internal audit functions and that it
has the necessary authority to carry out its work.
(iii) To review the internal audit programme, processes, the results of the internal audit programme,
processes or investigation undertaken and whether or not appropriate action is taken on the
recommendations of the internal audit function.
(iv) To review the assistance and cooperation given by the Company’s management to the external
auditor and internal auditor.
(v) To review the plans of the external auditor of the Company, and their reports arising from the audit.
(vi) To review the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
(vii) To review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
(viii) To review the quarterly unaudited condensed financial statements and the year end financial
statements of the Group before submission to the Board, focusing particularly on:
• any changes in accounting policies and practices;
• any significant and unusual results or events; and
• compliance with accounting standards and other legal requirements.
(ix) To review any related party transaction and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Group
including any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions of management
integrity.
(x) To review with the external auditor their audit report, management letter and Management’s response.
(xi) To recommend to the Board the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor and internal
auditor, audit fee, and where applicable, their resignation and dismissal.
(xii) To undertake such other responsibilities as may be agreed to by the Committee and the Board of
Directors.
4. Meetings
(i) The Audit Committee shall hold at least four (4) meetings a year and such additional meeting(s) as the
Chairman of the Audit Committee shall decide in order to fulfill its duties.
(ii) Apart from the members of the Audit Committee who will be present at the meetings, the Audit
CommitteemayinviteanymemberoftheBoardofDirectors,theManagement,staffandrepresentatives
of the external auditor and internal auditor to be present at the meeting of the Audit Committee.
(iii) A quorum shall consist of two (2) members. The majority of members present must be Independent
Non-Executive Directors.
(iv) Notices of not less than two (2) working days shall be given for the calling of any meeting to members.
(v) Matters raised and tabled at all meetings shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members.
(vi) A resolution in writing, signed by all the members shall be as valid and effective as if it had been
deliberated and decided upon at a meeting of the Audit Committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (cont’d)
41
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
(vii) Proceedings of all meetings held and resolutions passed as referred to in clause (vi) above shall be
recorded by the Company Secretary and kept at the Group’s registered office.
(viii) Every member of the Board shall have the right at any time to inspect the minutes of all meetings held
and resolutions passed by the Audit Committee and the reports submitted thereat.
(ix) The external auditors shall have the right to attend and be heard at any meeting and shall attend
before the Audit Committee when so required by the Audit Committee.
(x) Upon the request of the external auditors, the Chairman shall convene a meeting to consider any
matters that the external auditors recommend should be brought to the attention of the Directors or
shareholders of the Company.
(xi) Where necessary, the Audit Committee shall meet with the external auditors without the presence of
the executive board members of the Group.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.
hbglob.com.
Attendance of Meetings
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Audit Committee held 4 meetings. Details of the
attendance of committee members are as follow:
Name Attendance Percentage of Attendance
Yang Chin Shen 4/4 100%
Ho Pui Hold 4/4 100%
Khoo Chee Siang
(Appointed 5 November 2020) N/A N/A
Sun Shimin
(Retired 7 August 2020) 3/3 100%
Summary of Activities
The main activities that were undertaken by the Audit Committee during the financial year ended 31 December
2020 include the following:
i) Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial of the Group and the Company including the announcements
pertaining thereto, before recommending to the Board for their approval and release of the Group’s results
to Bursa Securities;
ii) Reviewed with external auditors on their audit planning memorandum on the statutory audit of the Group
for the financial year ended 31 December 2020;
iii) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Group before recommending to the Board for
their approval and release of the Group’s results to Bursa Securities;
iv) Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors of their audit findings inclusive of system evaluation, audit
fees, issues raised, audit recommendations and management’s response to these recommendations;
v) Evaluated the performance of the external auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 covering
areas such as calibre, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance
and independence and considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditors;
vi) Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope and functions of the internal audit plan;
vii) Reviewed the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings of internal audit through the
review of the internal audit reports tabled and management responses thereof;
viii) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control;
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (cont’d)
42
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
ix) Reviewed the proposed fees for the external auditors and internal auditors in respect of their audit of the
Company and the Group;
x) Reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Company or
the Group;
xi) Reviewed the Company’s compliance with the Listing Requirements, applicable Approved Accounting
Standards and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements;
xii) Reviewed the Audit Committee Report and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control before
recommending to the Board for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report; and
xiii) Report to the Board on its activities and significant findings and results.
Independence of the Audit Committee
HB Global recognised the need to uphold independence of its external auditors and that no possible conflict of
interest whatsoever should arise. Currently, none of the members of the Board nor the Audit Committee of the
Company were former key audit partners of the external auditors appointed by the Group. The Company will
observe a cooling-off period of at least two (2) years in the event any potential candidate to be appointed as
a member of the Audit Committee was a key audit partner of the external auditors of the Group.
Training and Financial Literacy of the Audit Committee Members
Collectively, the members of the Audit Committee have the relevant experience and expertise in finance
and accounting, and have carried out their duties in accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Audit
Committee. The qualification and experience of the individual Audit Committee members are disclosed in the
Directors’ Profiles in this Annual Report. During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the members of the
Audit Committee had undertaken the relevant training programmes to keep themselves abreast of the latest
development in accounting and auditing standards, statutory laws, regulations and best practices to enable
them to effectively discharge their duties. The list of trainings attended is disclosed in the Annual Report.
Compliance with Applicable Financial Reporting Standards
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at
any time the financial position of the Group, and for ensuring that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act of Singapore, Cap.50 (“the Act”) and applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling the statutory and fiduciary responsibilities in the assessment
and evaluation of the Group’s management and financial reports of the performance of business, accounting
policies, risk and internal controls.
The Audit Committee serves as an independent party in the review of the financial information presented by
Management before distribution to all shareholders and stakeholders. It ensures that the financial statements
comply with applicable accounting standards and also provide direction over the internal audit function and
relationship with the external auditors to ensure independence from Management.
The interim financial reports, annual audited financial statements and annual report of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020 are prepared in accordance with all applicable accounting policies.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (cont’d)
43
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Internal Audit Functions and Activities
The Group has appointed an established external professional Internal Audit firm, which reports to the Audit
Committee and assists the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems whilst
ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of controls and risks throughout the Group in achieving its business
objectives.
The Group has outsourced its Internal Audit Function to an external professional Internal Audit firm,
GovernanceAdvisory.com Sdn. Bhd. GovernanceAdvisory.com Sdn. Bhd is staffed by a total of eight (8)
professionals and it is led by Mr. Jason Tee the Executive Director of GASB. He holds a Bachelor of Commerce
(Hons) in Accounting and also an Associate Member of Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (“IIAM”). The
Internal Audit firm appointed by the Company is independent of activities related to business operations and
performs its duties in accordance with standards set by relevant professional bodies, namely Institute of Internal
Auditors.
Internal audit provides independent assessment on the effectiveness and efficiency of internal controls utilising
a global audit methodology and tool to support the corporate governance framework and an efficient and
effective risk management framework to provide assurance to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee approves the internal audit plan during the first Audit Committee meeting of each
financial year. Any subsequent changes to the internal audit plan are approved by the Audit Committee. The
scope of internal audit covers the audits of all units and operations, including subsidiaries as stated in the letter
of engagement.
The cost incurred for the Internal Audit function during the financial year is approximately RM20,000.
During the financial year, the internal auditors performed internal audit review of collection function on Shandong
Hengbao Foodstuffs Co. Ltd. in discharge of its responsibilities.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (cont’d)
44
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Introduction
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Listing Requirements, the Board of Directors of HB Global Limited is pleased
to report on its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, which provides an overview of the nature
and state of risk management and internal controls of Group during the financial year under review and up to
the date of approval of this statement by the Board. This statement is guided by the latest Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers.
Board Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Group’s internal control and risk management systems
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets and for reviewing the adequacy and integrity
of such systems. The Board ensures the effectiveness of such systems through regular quarterly reviews. These
responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee which is empowered by their terms of reference which
had been approved by the Board.
Due to inherent limitations in the systems of internal control and risk management, such systems can only manage
rather than eliminate all risks of failure to achieve business objectives, and as such, can only provide reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board through its Audit Committee has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this process includes enhancing the risk management
and internal control system as and when there are changes to the business environment and regulatory
requirements. The process is reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee on a periodic basis.
Management assists the Board in the implementation of the Board’s policies and procedures on risk and control
by identifying and assessing the risks faced by the Group, and in the design and operation of suitable internal
controls to mitigate these risks identified.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control system in place for the year under review
and up to the date of issuance of the annual report is adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’
investment, the interests of customers, regulators, employees and the Group’s assets.
KEY FEATURES OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key features of the internal control systems which are operated with the assistance of the management are
described under the following headings:
a) Risk Management Framework
The Board recognises the need for effective risk management and to maintain a sound system of internal
control. Risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operations and this process goes through
a review process by the Board. Discussions have been conducted during the year involving different levels of
managements to identify and address risks faced by the Group. These risks were summarised and included
in the Group’s risk management report. The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group throughout the financial year under review by the
management. This is to ensure that all high risks are adequately addressed at various levels within the Group.
b) Internal Control System
The Board is committed to maintaining a sound internal control structure to govern the manner in which the
Group and its employees conduct themselves. The key elements of controls are:
(i) the responsibilities of the Board and the management are clearly defined in the organisational structure
to ensure the effective discharge of the roles and responsibilities of the parties in overseeing the conduct
of the Group’s business;
(ii) the formation of operational policies and procedures by the management with a view to establishing
group wide operational standards in order for all operating units to work cohesively towards achieving
the business objectives of the Group. For accounting systems and financial processes, efforts are being
taken to ensure consistency in the Group as a whole;
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
45
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
(iii) frequent on-site visits to the operating units by senior management so as to acquire a first-hand view on
various operational matters and to address the issues accordingly;
(iv) the Board gathers and reviews key financial and operating statistics from time to time and constantly
keeps track and monitor the achievement of the Group’s performance; and
(v) the Audit Committee reviews on a quarterly basis of the quarterly unaudited financial results to monitor
the Group’s progress towards achieving the Group’s business objectives. Authority is given to the Audit
Committee members to investigate and report on any areas of improvement for the betterment of the
Group.
(c) Internal Audit Function
The Group’s Internal Audit Function assists the Board and Audit Committee by providing an independent
assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to GovernanceAdvisory.com Sdn. Bhd., an independent
professional internal audit firm. The Internal Auditors supports the Audit Committee, and by extension to the
Board by providing independent assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control.
The internal audit plan which reflects the identified risk was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
All reports from the internal audit reviews, and corrective actions undertaken by Management were
presented to the Audit Committee. None of the weaknesses noted may resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that have any material impact to the financial statements of the Group.
In performing the internal audit review, the Internal Auditors refer to and are guided by The International
Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) that includes the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics
and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing issued by the Institute of
Internal Auditors.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the
Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. Based on their review, the external auditors have
reported to the Board that nothing had come to their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the
Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls and risk management, except
for some improvement points highlighted to the Board in regards to certain internal control deficiencies. The
Board has responded that the Company and the Group will improve on those internal controls.
Management’s Assurance
The Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Directors, representing the management, have given reasonable
assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are adequate and
effective, in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal controls adopted by the Group
and similar assurance given by the respective heads of operations.
Board Conclusion
For the financial year under review, there were no significant internal control deficiencies or material weaknesses
resulting in material losses or contingencies requiring disclosure in the Annual Report. The Board is of the view that
the existing Group’s system of risk management and internal control is adequate to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Group’s assets. However, the Board is also cognizant of the fact that the Group’s system of
risk management and internal control practices must continuously evolve to meet the changing and challenging
business environment. Therefore, the Board will, when necessary, put in place appropriate action plans to further
enhance the Group’s system of internal control and risk management framework.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL (cont’d)
46
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS FROM CORPORATE EXERCISE
During the financial year, there were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO EXTERNAL AUDITORS
During the financial year, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the external auditors by
the Company and the Group respectively for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 were as follows:
								 Company Group
								 (RMB’000) (RMB’000)
Audit Services Rendered				 15 374
Non-Audit Services Rendered				 53 53
Total						 68 426
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
During the financial year, there were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiary
involving Directors’ and major shareholders’ interests.
4. CONTRACTS RELATING TO LOAN
During the financial year, there were no material contracts relating to loans entered into by the Company
involving Directors and major shareholders.
5. RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE AND TRADING NATURE
Save for such disclosure made in note 29 to the audited consolidated financial statements in this Annual
Report, there were no material recurrent related party transactions of revenue nature during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020.
OTHER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS PURSUANT TO THE LISTING
REQUIREMENTS OF BURSA SECURITIES
Directors’ Statement		
		
Statutory Declaration		
		
Independent Auditor’s Report
Statements of Financial Position		
		
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
		
Statements of Changes In Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
48
51
52
56
57
58
59
60
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
48
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT
The directors present their statement to the members together with the audited consolidated financial statements
of HB Global Limited (the “Company” and collectively with its subsidiaries, the “Group”) for the financial year
ended 31 December 2020 and the statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
OPINION OF THE DIRECTORS
In the opinion of the directors,
(a) the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of financial position
and statement of changes in equity of the Company are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view
of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and the financial
performance, changes in equity and cash flows of the Group and the changes in equity of the Company
for the financial year then ended; and
(b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay
its debts as and when they fall due. This is based on the following premises:
(i) the ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables business of the Group is expected to generate sufficient
cash flows to meet operating costs and service interest payments on the bank loans;
(ii) the lender banks will be supportive of the Group continuing in operational existence; and
(iii) the Company’s substantial shareholder, who is also a director of the Company, will provide such financial
support as is necessary to enable the Group and the Company to fulfil their financial obligations as and
when they fall due.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The directors of the Company in office at the date of this statement are:
Shen Hengbao-Chief Executive Officer
Yang Chin Shen
Ho Pui Hold
Khoo Chee Siang 		
(appointed on 2 September 2020)
Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat 		
(appointed on 1 October 2020)
Lee Ping Wei 		
(appointed on 8 February 2021)
Keh Chuan Seng 		
(appointed on 10 February 2021)
ARRANGEMENTS TO ENABLE DIRECTORS TO ACQUIRE SHARES AND DEBENTURES
Neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year did there subsist any arrangement whose object
was to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or
debentures of the Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND DEBENTURES
According to the register of directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under section 164 of the Singapore
Companies Act, Chapter 50, none of the directors holding office at the end of the financial year had any
interests in the shares or debentures of the Company or its related corporations, except as follows:
49
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT (cont’d)
Held in the name of directors Deemed interest
Name of directors and companies in
which interests are held
At
beginning
of
financial
year
At end of
financial
year
At
beginning
of
financial
year
At end of
financial
year
The Company
HB Global Limited
(No. of ordinary shares)
Shen Hengbao - - 267,202,000 35,536,000
SHARE OPTIONS
During the financial year, no options to subscribe for unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries were
granted.
During the financial year, there were no shares of the Company or its subsidiaries issued by virtue of the exercise
of an option to take up unissued shares.
At the end of the financial year, there were no unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries under option.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The members of the Audit Committee (“AC”) at the date of this statement are as follows:
Yang Chin Shen - Chairman
Ho Pui Hold – Member
Khoo Chee Siang – Member
The Audit Committee has carried out its function in accordance with Section 201B(5) of the Singapore Companies
Act, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and the Code of Corporate
Governance.
The primary duties and responsibilities of the AC are as follows:
(i) To review audit plans of the internal and external auditors of the Company, and review the internal auditors’
evaluation of the adequacy of the Company’s system of internal accounting controls and the assistance
given by the Company’s management to the external and internal auditors;
(ii) To review quarterly and annual financial statements and the auditor’s report on the annual financial
statements of the Company before their submission to the Board;
(iii) To review the effectiveness of the Company’s material internal controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management via reviews carried out by the internal auditors;
(iv) To meet with the external auditors, other committees, and management in separate executive sessions to
discuss any matters that these groups believe should be discussed privately with the AC;
(v) To review legal and regulatory matters that may have a material impact on the financial statements, related
compliance policies and programmes and any reports received from regulators;
(vi) To review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors;
(vii) To recommend to the Board the nomination of external auditors, approve the compensation of the external
auditors and review the scope and results of the audit;
(viii) To report actions and minutes of the AC to the Board with such recommendations as the AC considers
appropriate; and
(ix) To review interested person transactions.
50
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
The AC is authorised by the Board to investigate any activities within its Terms of Reference. The AC has unlimited
access to both internal auditors and external auditors as well as all employees of the Group. The AC also has the
authority to obtain independent legal or other professional advice and to secure attendance of outsiders with
relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The AC has conducted a review of interested person transactions. The AC has held 4 meetings during the
financial year. The AC has also met with external auditors, without the presence of the Company’s management,
at least once a year.
Further details regarding the AC are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement and Audit Committee
Report in the Annual Report of the Company.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR
The independent auditor, UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co, has expressed its willingness to accept re-appointment.
On behalf of the directors,
Shen Hengbao					 Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat
Director						 Director
28 April 2021
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT (cont’d)
51
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Pursuant to Paragraph 9.27 of the Main Market Listing Manual Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad:
I, Mr Ang Kong Siang, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of HB Global Limited,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group
and the statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity of the Company, are in my opinion
correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
provisions of the Statutory Declaration Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above mentioned
At Malaysia on
This day of 28 April 2021
Ang Kong Siang
Before me
Commissioner for Oaths
STATUTORY DECLARATION
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
52
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of HB Global Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively
the Group), which comprise the statements of financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31
December 2020, the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated
statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows of the Group and statement of
changes in equity of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of
financial position and statement of changes in equity of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act, Chapter 50 (the Act), and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards
(International) [(SFRS(I)s)] which are simultaneously compliant with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) so as to give a true and fair view of the
consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2020
and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of
the Group and the changes in equity of the Company for the financial year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Accounting and
Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and
Accounting Entities (ACRA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter Our audit procedures to address the matter
Impairment of property, plant and
equipment and land use rights
As at 31 December 2020, property, plant and
equipment and land use rights with carrying amounts
of RMB210,577,000 and RMB74,596,000 constituted
approximately 50.2% and 17.8% of the total assets of
the Group respectively.
During the current financial year, the Group carried
out a review of the recoverable amounts of its
property, plant and equipment and land use rights
due to possible indicators for impairment.
The valuation process and impairment review involves
significant judgement in determining the appropriate
valuation methods to be used, and in estimating the
key underlying assumptions to be applied.
These critical judgement and significant estimation
are disclosed in Note 3.2 to the financial statements.
Our audit procedures focused on evaluating the
appropriateness and adequacy of the impairment
assessment for property, plant and equipment and
land use rights. These procedures included:
• Obtaining an understanding of the impairment
review done by management with the assistance
of a valuer;
• Comparing actual property, plant and equipment
replacement costs to previous costs and the fair
value of the land use rights to market data and
assessing the quantum of available headroom;
and
• Challenging the key assumptions used by
management in the valuation process and
impairment review.
53
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
Key Audit Matter Our audit procedures to address the matter
Advance payments for land use rights
As at 31 December 2020, included in prepayments
are advance payments for land use rights with
cost and carrying amount of RMB159,429,000 and
RMB77,330,000 respectively, net of impairment loss
of RMB82,099,000, which constituted approximately
18.4% of the Group’s total assets.
These land use rights are still pending their certificates
to be issued by the relevant authorities in the Province.
Accordingly, these land use rights are being classified
as prepayments. The impairment loss of these land
use rights arising from the valuation carried out for
property, plant and equipment and land use rights
are detailed in Note 3.2 to the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included:
• Sighting the original agreements signed between
the Group and the Juxian Province Bureau of
Land and Resources (the “Authorities”) for the
acquisition of these land use rights;
• Performed physical sighting of the sites relating to
these land use rights; and
• Inquiry with management on the delay by the
Authorities in issuing the certificates for these
land use rights and conveyed management’s
explanations to the Audit Committee which
considered them to be satisfactory.
Other information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all the sections of the
Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and SFRS(I)s which are simultaneously compliant with IFRSs issued
by the IASB, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or disposition; and
transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of true
and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no
realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Key Audit Matters (continued)
54
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Group’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or
conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the
public interest benefits of such communication.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
55
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Other Reporting Responsibilities
The supplementary information set out in Note 34 is disclosed to meet the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and is not part of the financial statements. The directors are responsible for the preparation of the
supplementary information in accordance with Guidance on Special Matter No. 1, Determination of Realised
and Unrealised Profits or Losses in the Context of Disclosure Pursuant to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Listing
Requirements, as issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA Guidance”) and the directive of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad. In our opinion, the supplementary information is prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the MIA Guidance and the directive of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company have been
properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Tang Boon Sun.
UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
28 April 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
56
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
					 Note RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
ASSETS					
Current assets					
Cash and bank balances 4 182 1,574 8 8
Trade and other receivables 5 47,242 59,336 8 8
Prepayments		 6 77,340 66,434 - -
Inventories			 7 9,823 10,802 - -
					
		 				 134,587 138,146 16 16
					
					
Non-current assets					
Investments in subsidiaries 8 - - 172,800 172,800
Property, plant and equipment 9 210,577 280,577 - -
Land use rights		 10 74,596 62,512 - -
					
						 285,173 343,089 172,800 172,800
					
Total assets				 419,760 481,235 172,816 172,816
					
					
LIABILITIES					
Current liabilities					
Other payables 11 19,342 19,115 9,971 10,115
Amounts due to ex-shareholders of 					
the Company		 12 - 3,061 - 3,061
Amounts due to a shareholder of					
the Company		 13 3,276 - 3,276 -
Amounts due to directors 14 32,790 13,429 30,589 8,393
Bank loans			 15 68,561 83,170 - -
					
						 123,969 118,775 43,836 21,569
					
Non-current liabilities					
Amounts due to directors 14 - 20,976 - 20,976
					
Total liabilities			 123,969 139,751 43,836 42,545
					
NET ASSETS 			 295,791 341,484 128,980 130,271
					
					
EQUITY					
Share capital		 16 146,161 146,161 146,161 146,161
Capital reserve		 17 (16,844) (16,844) - -
Equity contribution reserve 18 - 8,237 - -
Statutory reserve 19 76,090 76,090 - -
Retained earnings/
(Accumulated losses)		 90,384 127,437 (17,181) (15,890)
					
						 295,791 341,081 128,980 130,271
Non-controlling interests		 - 403 - -
					
Total equity			 295,791 341,484 128,980 130,271
					
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
57
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
							 Note 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Revenue					 20 97,880 157,481
Cost of sales					 (97,200) (112,659)
				
Gross profit						 680 44,822
Other income				 21 45,566 9,166
Selling and distribution expenses				 (1,193) (2,075)
Administrative expenses				 (27,025) (27,865)
Other expenses				 22 (58,912) -
Finance costs				 23 (4,377) (7,215)
Loss from disposal of subsidiaries			 8 (29) -
				
(Loss)/ Profit before income tax			 24 (45,290) 16,833
Income tax expense			 25 - -
				
(Loss)/Profit for the year, representing total comprehensive
(loss)/income for the year				 (45,290) 16,833
				
Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to:				
Owners of the Company				 (45,290) 16,834
Non-controlling interests				 - (1)
								 (45,290) 16,833
				
(Loss)/Earnings per share (RMB cents per share)			
				
Basic						 26 (9.68) 3.60
			
Diluted						 26 (9.68) 3.60
				
58
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
Group
											 Attributable
			 					 Equity 			 to owners Non-
				 Share Capital contribution Statutory Retained of the controlling Total
					 capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Company interests equity
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
								
Balance at 1 January 2019		 146,161 (16,844) 8,237 76,090 110,603 324,247 404 324,651
Profit for the year, representing total								
comprehensive income for the year - - - - 16,834 16,834 (1) 16,833
Balance at 31 December 2019		 146,161 (16,844) 8,237 76,090 127,437 341,081 403 341,484
Loss for the year, representing total								
comprehensive loss for the year - - - - (45,290) (45,290) - (45,290)
Derecognised of equity contribution
reserve				 - - (8,237) - 8,237 - - -
Non-controlling interests on disposal of 								
subsidiaries			 - - - - - - (403) (403)
Balance at 31 December 2020 146,161 (16,844) - 76,090 90,384 295,791 - 295,791
									
Company
											 Share Accumulated Total
											 capital losses equity
											
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
Balance at 1 January 2019							 146,161 (12,965) 133,196
Loss for the year, representing total comprehensive loss for the year					 - (2,925) (2,925)
Balance at 31 December 2019							 146,161 (15,890) 130,271
Loss for the year, representing total comprehensive loss for the year					 - (1,291) (1,291)
Balance at 31 December 2020							 146,161 (17,181) 128,980
					
					
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
59
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
							 Note 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Cash flows from operating activities				
(Loss)/Profit before income tax				 (45,290) 16,833
Adjustments for:				
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment		 24 15,715 16,535
Amortisation of land use rights			 24 1,495 1,496
Property, plant and equipment written off		 22 56,353 -
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment		 22 1,867 -
Inventories written down			 22 692 -
Reversal of accrued interest			 21 (345) -
Reversal of impairment loss on advance payments of land use rights 21 (11,090) -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables		 21 (1,556) (8,536)
Reversal of impairment loss on land use rights		 21 (13,579) -
Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 21 (3,200) -
Loss from disposal of subsidiaries			 8 29 -
Income from wavier of bank borrowing			 21 (14,400) -
Interest expense			 23 4,377 7,215
Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss				 (1,245) 936
Operating (loss)/profit before working capital changes			 (10,177) 34,479
Changes in working capital				
Trade and other receivables				 9,809 16,728
Inventories					 287 4,507
Other payables				 717 (12,829)
Net cash from operating activities				 636 42,885
				
Cash flows from investing activities				
Purchase of property, plant and equipment		 9 (735) (23,530)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of		 8 (8) -
Net cash used in investing activities				 (743) (23,530)
Cash flows from financing activities				
Advances/(Repayment of borrowings) from directors			 2,188 (8,319)
Repayment of borrowings from ex-shareholders			 - (3,478)
Repayment of bank loans				 (209) (1,040)
Interest paid					 (3,264) (5,052)
Net cash used in financing activities				 (1,285) (17,889)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents				 (1,392) 1,466
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year			 1,574 108
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year			 4 182 1,574
				
				
				
				
				
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
60
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
1. General
1.1 Corporate information
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Singapore with its registered office
located at 80 Robinson Road, #17-02, Singapore 068898. The address of the principal place of business
of the Group is Weifang Road, Juxian Industry Garden, Ju County, Rizhao City, Shandong Province,
People’s Republic of China (“PRC”).
The Company has another registered office at Level 5, Block B, Dataran PHB, Saujana Resort Section
U2, 40150, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. The Company is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
The principal activities of the Company are those relating to investment holding. The principal activities
of the subsidiaries are described in Note 8 to the financial statements. There have been no significant
changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 were authorised for issue by the
Board of Directors on 28 April 2021.
1.2 Fundamental accounting concept
As at 31 December 2020, the Group’s current liabilities include bank loans of RMB68,561,000 (2019:
RMB83,170,000) which are contractually due for repayment within 12 months from the end of the reporting
period. Should the Group not be able to rollover its existing bank loans or alternative refinancing of
the bank loans be unsuccessful, the Group and the Company may not have sufficient cash to fulfil
obligations at the relevant repayment dates. This may impede continuation of the Group’s current
business operation.
Notwithstanding these conditions, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern
basis based on the following premises:
• The business of the Group is expected to generate sufficient cash flows to meet operating costs and
service interest payments on the bank loans;
• RMB41,581,000 out of total bank loans are currently negotiating for waiver by local government with
lender banks. Remaining loans will expect to be rollovered by the lender banks for the Group; and
• The Company’s substantial shareholder will provide such financial support as is necessary to enable
the Group and the Company to fulfil their financial obligations as and when they fall due.
If the Group and the Company are unable to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future, the Group and the Company may be unable to discharge their liabilities in the normal course
of business and adjustments may have to be made to reflect the situation that assets may need to be
realised other than in the normal course of business and at amounts which could differ significantly from
the amounts at which they are currently recorded in the statements of financial position. In addition, the
Group and the Company may have to reclassify non-current assets and liabilities as current assets and
liabilities. No such adjustments have been made to these financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
61
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Singapore Financial Reporting
Standards (International) [“SFRS(I)s”] which are simultaneously compliant with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except as disclosed in the
accounting policies below.
The Group’s principal operations are conducted in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and hence
the financial statements are presented in renminbi (“RMB”), which is the functional currency of the
Company. All financial information presented in RMB is rounded to the nearest thousand (“RMB’000”),
unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with SFRS(I) requires management to exercise
its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also requires the use of
accounting estimates and assumptions. Although these estimates are based on management’s best
knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The areas where estimates and assumptions are significant or critical to the financial statements are
disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2.2 Adoption of new and amended standards and interpretations
On 1 January 2020, the Group adopted the new or amended SFRS(I) and Interpretations of SFRS(I) (“INT
SFRS(I)”) that are mandatory for application for the financial year. Changes to the Group’s accounting
policies have been made as required, in accordance with the transitional provisions in the respective
SFRS(I) and INT SFRS(I).
The adoption of these new or amended SFRS(I) and INT SFRS(I) did not result in substantial changes to
the Group’s accounting policies and had no material effect on the amounts reported for the current or
prior financial years.
2.3 Financial instruments
		 (a) Financial assets
			 Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the entity becomes party to the contractual
provisions of the instruments.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a
financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”), transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at
FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Trade receivables are measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be
entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third party, if the trade receivables do not contain a significant financing
component at initial recognition.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
62
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Financial instruments (continued)
		 (a) Financial assets (continued)
		 Subsequent measurement
			Investments in debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing
the asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset. The three measurement
categories for classification of debt instruments are amortised cost, FVOCI and FVPL. The Group
only has debt instruments at amortised cost.
Financial assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows
represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Financial assets
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment. Gains and
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired, and through
the amortisation process.
			Derecognition
A financial asset is derecognised where the contractual right to receive cash flows from the asset
has expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying
amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had been
recognised in other comprehensive income for debt instruments is recognised in profit or loss.
		 (b) Financial liabilities
			 Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are recognised when and only when, the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the financial instrument. The Group determines the classification of its
financial liabilities at initial recognition.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus in the case of financial liabilities not at
FVPL, directly attributable transaction costs.
			Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, financial liabilities that are not carried at FVPL are subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the liabilities are derecognised, and through the amortisation process.
			Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled
or expires. On derecognition, the difference between the carrying amounts and the consideration
paid is recognised in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
63
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.4 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The financial statements of the subsidiaries used in
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date
as the Company. Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar
circumstances. Detailed information on the subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.
The Group was formed as a result of a restructuring exercise undertaken on 25 September 2009 for the
purpose of the Group’s listing on the main market of Bursa Securities. The acquisition of 100% equity in the
subsidiary, namely Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd. pursuant to the restructuring exercise under
common control has been accounted for using the pooling-of-interest method. Under the pooling-of-
interest method, the consolidated financial statements of the Group have been presented as if the
Group structure had existed immediately after the restructuring has been in existence since the earliest
financial year presented. The assets and liabilities were brought into the consolidated statement of
financial position at their existing carrying amounts.
All intragroup balances, income and expenses and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group
transactions and dividends are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains
control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit
balance.
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at
the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the periods in which the
costs are incurred and the services are received. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the
acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Non-controlling interest represents the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly, to
owners of the Group. They are shown separately in the statements of financial position, consolidated
statement of comprehensive income and statements of changes in equity. Total comprehensive
income is attributed to the non-controlling interest based on their respective interests in a subsidiary,
even if the subsidiary incurred losses and the losses allocated exceed the non-controlling interest in the
subsidiary’s equity.
Consolidation of the subsidiaries in the PRC is based on the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared
in accordance with SFRS(I). Profits reflected in the financial statements prepared in accordance with
SFRS(I) may differ from those reflected in the PRC statutory financial statements of the subsidiaries,
prepared for PRC reporting purposes. In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, profits
available for distribution by the PRC subsidiaries are based on the amounts stated in the PRC statutory
financial statements respectively.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Subsequent to recognition,
property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes its purchase price
and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for
it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Dismantlement, removal or
restoration costs are included as part of the cost of property, plant and equipment if the obligation for
dismantlement, removal or restoration is incurred as a consequence of acquiring or using the property,
plant and equipment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
64
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.5 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate
their depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
		 Leasehold buildings and infrastructure				 25 years
		 Plant and machinery					 10 years
		 Furniture, fittings and equipment					 5 years
		 Motor vehicles					 5 years
		 Other facilities					 10 – 15 years
		 Renovation					 3 years
Construction-in-progress, which represents factory premises and buildings under construction, is stated at
cost less any impairment losses. Cost comprises direct costs incurred during the periods of construction,
installation and testing. Capitalisation of these costs ceases and construction-in-progress is transferred
to the appropriate class of property, plant and equipment when substantially all the activities necessary
to prepare the assets for their intended use are completed and the assets are available for use.
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until they are
no longer in use.
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods of property, plant and equipment are
reviewed, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period to ensure
that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the
expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the items of property,
plant and equipment.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included
in profit or loss in the financial year the asset is derecognised.
2.6 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or
production of a qualifying asset. Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when the activities to
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress and the expenditures and borrowing costs
are incurred. Borrowing costs are capitalised until the assets are ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing
costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
2.7 Land use rights
Land use rights are initially measured at cost. Following initial recognition, land use rights are measured
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any. The land use rights are amortised
on straight-line basis, over the land lease term of 38 to 50 years.
2.8 Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an investee controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company controls an
investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost
less impairment losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
65
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.9 		 Impairment of financial assets
		 The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt instruments
not held at FVPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in
accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted
at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash
flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual
terms.
		 ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default
events that are possible within the next 12 months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit exposures for
which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is
recognised for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of timing of
the default (a lifetime ECL).
		 For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the
Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime
ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical
credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment which could affect the debtors’ ability to pay.
		 The Group considers a financial asset in default when contractual payments are 60 days past due.
However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal
or external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual
amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group. A financial
asset is written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
		 For cash and cash equivalents and other receivables, the general 3 stage approach is applied.
Credit loss allowance is based on 12-month expected credit loss if there is no significant increase in
credit risk since initial recognition of the assets. If there is a significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition, lifetime expected credit loss will be calculated and recognised.
2.10 Impairment of non-financial assets
		 The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be
impaired. If any indication exists, (or, where applicable, when an annual impairment testing for an
asset is required), the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.
		 An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less
costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or group of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the
asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
		 Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
		 A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If
that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increase
cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no
impairment loss been recognised previously. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
66
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.11 Inventories
		 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred in bringing the
inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
-		 Raw materials: purchase costs on the weighted average cost method.
-		 Finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of raw materials and labour and a proportion of
manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity. These costs are assigned on a
weighted average cost basis and exclude borrowing costs.
		 Where necessary, allowance is provided for damaged, obsolete and slow-moving items to adjust the
carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
		 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.12 Leases
		 The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange
for consideration.
		 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
		 The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of assets (i.e.
those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not
contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to
leases of assets that are considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases
of low value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
2.13 Taxes
(a) Current income tax
		 Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authority. The tax rates and tax
laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date.
		 Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax relates to
items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in
which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where
appropriate.
(b) Deferred tax
		 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the end of the
reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for
financial reporting purposes.
		 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in
the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
		 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set
off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate
to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
67
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.13 Taxes (continued)
(c) Value added tax (“VAT”)
		 Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of VAT, except:
•		
Where the VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the
taxation authority, in which case the VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of
the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
•		
Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of VAT included.
		 The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as
part of the receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
2.14 Currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
		 Items included in the financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency
of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The
consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in renminbi.
Translations and balances
		 Transactions in a currency other than the functional currency (“foreign currency”) are translated into
the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions. Currency
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the closing exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period are recognised in profit or loss, except for currency translation
differences on the net investment in foreign operations, borrowings in foreign currencies and other
currency instruments designed and qualifying as net investment hedges for foreign operations, which
are included in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation
reserve within equity.
		 When a foreign operation is disposed of or any borrowings forming part of the net investment of the
foreign operation are acquired, a proportionate share of the accumulated translation differences is
reclassified to profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
		 Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in foreign currencies are translated using the
exchange rates at the date when the fair values are determined. Currency translation differences
on non-monetary items whereby gains or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, such
as equity investments classified at fair value through other comprehensive income financial assets are
included in the fair value reserve.
Translation of Group entities’ financial statements
		 The results and financial position of Group entities that are in functional currencies different from the
presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rates at the reporting date;
(ii) Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates;
(iii) All resulting currency exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income
and accumulated in currency translation reserve within equity. These currency translation
differences are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal of the entity giving rise
to such reserve.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
68
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.15 Revenue recognition
		 Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in
exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on
behalf of third parties.
		 Revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation (“PO”) by transferring a
promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains control of the good or
service. A PO may be satisfied at a point in time or over time. The amount of revenue recognised is
the amount allocated to the satisfied performance obligation.
		
Sale of goods - Ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables
		 The Group sold its ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables to its distributors. Contract is identified
with customers with reference to the sales contract signed by both parties. Upon receipt of
acknowledged delivery orders from customers, the person in charge of invoicing customers will
generate sales invoice with reference to the per price list stipulated in the sales contract and delivery
order documents for items sold.
		 Revenue from goods sold in the ordinary course of business is recognised when the Group satisfies a
PO by transferring control of a promised good to the customer. Revenue recognised is the amount of
the transaction price allocated to the satisfied PO.
		 The transaction price is allocated to each PO on the basis of the relative stand-alone selling prices of
the promised good excludes sales taxes. Trade discounts or variable considerations are allocated to
one or more, but not all, of the POs if they relate specifically to those POs.
		 Transaction price is the amount of consideration in the contract to which the Group expects to
be entitled to in exchange for transferring the promised goods. The transaction price may be fixed
or variable and is adjusted for time value of money if the contract includes a significant financing
component. When consideration is variable, the estimate amount is included in the transaction price
to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue will not
occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
		 No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration
due.
		
Rental income
		 Rental income arising from operating lease is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease
term. Lease incentives granted are recognised a an integral part of the total rental income over the
term of the lease.
2.16 Employee benefits
		 Employee leave entitlements
		 Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised as a liability when they accrue to employees.
The estimated liability for annual leave is recognised for services rendered by employees up to the
end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
69
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.16 Employee benefits (continued)
		 Pension obligations
		 The Group participate in the defined contribution national pension and other welfare schemes as
provided by the laws of the countries in which it has operations.
		 Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in the same financial year as the
employment that gives rise to the contributions.
		 Pursuant to the relevant regulations of the PRC government, a subsidiary of the Group in the PRC
participates in a local municipal government retirement benefits scheme (the “Scheme”), whereby
the subsidiary is required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries of its employees to
the Scheme to fund their retirement benefits. The local municipal government undertakes to assume
the retirement benefits obligations of all existing and future retired employees of the subsidiary.
		 The only obligation of the subsidiary with respect to the Scheme is to pay the ongoing required
contributions under the Scheme mentioned above. Contributions under the Scheme are charged to
profit or loss as incurred.
2.17 Provisions
		 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
		 Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best
estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle
the obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions
are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to
the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
recognised as a finance cost.
2.18 Cash and cash equivalents
		 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and bank balances that are readily convertible
to known amount of cash (other than foreign currencies as disclosed in Note 4) and which are subject
to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
2.19 Share capital
		 Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares are recognised as share capital in equity. Incremental
costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares are deducted against share capital.
2.20 Financial guarantees
		 The Group has issued corporate guarantees to banks for bank borrowings granted to third parties.
These guarantees are financial guarantees as they require the Group to reimburse the banks if the
entities fail to make principal or interest payments when due in accordance with the terms of their
respective borrowings.
		 Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and
subsequently measured at the higher of:
(a) premium received on initial recognition less amortisation over the period of the third parties’
borrowings; and
(b) at the expected amount payable to the banks in the event it is probable that the Group will
reimburse the banks for an amount higher than the unamortised amount in (a).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
70
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.21 Segment reporting
		 An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business activities
from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses (including revenue and expenses relating to
transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly
reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be
allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is
available.
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 to the financial
statements, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period,
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
3.1		 Judgements made in applying the Group’s accounting policies
		 In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described in Note 2 above,
management had made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimates, which have
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
		 Environmental remediation
		 The Group has not incurred any expenditure for environmental remediation and is currently not
involved in any environmental remediation, and has not accrued any amounts for environmental
remediation relating to its operations. Under existing legislation, management believes that there are
no probable liabilities that will have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operating
results of the Group. However, the PRC government may move further towards more rigorous
enforcement of applicable laws, and the adoption of more stringent environmental standards. The
outcome of environmental liabilities under proposed or future environmental legislation cannot be
reasonably estimated at present and hence not provided for in the financial statements.
3.2		 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
		 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end
of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
(a) Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of trade receivables
		 The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables. The provision rates
are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments that have similar loss
patterns.
		 The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default rates. The
Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust historical credit loss experience with forward-looking
information. At every reporting date, historical default rates are updated and changes in the
forward-looking estimates are analysed.
		 The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic
conditions and ECLs is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in
circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Company’s historical credit loss
experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customer’s
actual default in the future. The information about the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables is
disclosed in Note 31.2.
		 The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December 2020 is RMB47,234,000
(2019: RMB59,328,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
71
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
		 (b) Impairment of non-financial assets
TheGroup assesses whetherthere are any indicators of impairmentfor property,plant and equipment,
land use rights and advance payments of land use rights in accordance with the accounting policy
in Note 2.
As disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements, the Group conducted a review of the recoverable
amount of its property, plant and equipment.
The Group’s management performed a valuation of property, plant and equipment, land use rights
and advance payments of land use rights to determine their fair values. Management adopted
the replacement cost method to value these property, plant and equipment. The valuation which
involves significant estimation is based on the estimates of the gross replacement costs of the
property, plant and equipment, from which appropriate deductions may then be made to allow for
the age, condition, economic and functional obsolescence and environmental factors. The review
led to the recognition of a reversal of impairment loss of RMB3,200,000 (2019: Nil) and an impairment
loss of RMB1,867,000 (2019: Nil) being made in profit or loss.
For advance payments of land use rights and land use rights, management had adopted the
market approach technique to value these non-financial assets as disclosed in Notes 6 and 10 to
the financial statements. The values of land use rights are derived by analysing prices of similar land
use rights transacted recently and making adjustments based on differences in land sizes and useful
lives of these land use rights. The review led to a reversal of impairment loss of RMB11,090,000 (2019:
Nil) for advance payments of land use rights and a reversal of impairment loss of RMB13,579,000
(2019: Nil) for land use rights required to be made.
The carrying amounts of advance payments of land use rights, property, plant and equipment and
land use rights are disclosed in Notes 6, 9 and 10 to the financial statements.
		 (c) Income tax expense
The Group has exposure to income tax in the PRC. Significant judgement is involved in determining
the provision for income taxes. There are certain transactions and computations for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises
liabilities for expected tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where
the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised,
such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such
determination is made. The Group’s income tax expense is disclosed in Note 25 to the financial
statements.
ThePRCsubsidiariesmaketaxsubmissionstothelocaltaxauthoritiesinaccordancewithinterpretations
and local practices. Management has assessed and concluded that all tax submissions to local tax
authorities had since been finalised and hence are appropriate. Accordingly, management is of
the view that there are no further tax and related liabilities as at the end of the reporting period.
As at 31 December 2020, the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets in relation to unutilised tax
losses due to uncertainty over the availability of future taxable profit against which the Group can
utilise such benefit.
		 (d) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Management estimates the useful lives of property, plant and equipment to be within 3 to 25 years.
These are common life expectancies applied in the relevant industry. Changes in the expected level
of usage and technological development could impact the economic useful lives and the residual
values of these assets. Hence, future depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount
of the Group’s property, plant and equipment is disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
72
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
4. Cash and cash equivalents
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Cash and bank balances		 182 1,574 8 8
							
The renminbi is not freely convertible into foreign currencies. Under the PRC Foreign Exchange Control
Regulations and Administration of Settlement, Sales and Payment of Foreign Exchange Regulations, the
Group is permitted to exchange renminbi for foreign currencies through banks that are authorised to
conduct foreign exchange business. These regulations place restriction on the amount of currency being
exported other than through dividends.
5. Trade and other receivables
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Trade receivables					
- third parties		 47,416 61,066 - -
- impairment allowance (Note 31.2)		 (182) (1,738) - -
							
						 47,234 59,328 - -
							
Other receivables				
- refundable deposits		 8 8 8 8
						 47,242 59,336 8 8
							
							
The average credit period given to trade receivables is 120 (2019: 120) days.
Allowance for impairment on trade receivables is determined based on management’s assessment of
collectability and by reference to past default experience.
There is no other class of financial asset that is past due and/or impaired except for trade receivables.
Expected credit losses
The movement in allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables computed based on lifetime
ECL is as follows:
			 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Balance at 1 January				 1,738 10,274
Reversal of allowance made (Note 21)			 (1,556) (8,536)
			
Balance at 31 December				 182 1,738
			
			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
73
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
6. Prepayments
			 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Advance payments				 159,429 159,429
Others						 10 21
Prepaid rental				 - 173
Less: Impairment loss on advance payments of land use rights		 (82,099) (93,189)
			
								 77,340 66,434
Movements in impairment loss on advance payment of land use rights:
			 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Balance at beginning				 93,189 93,189
Reversal of impairment loss (Note 21) 			 (11,090) -
			
								 82,099 93,189
			
Advance payments relate to up-front payments for the acquisition of land use rights. As at the end of the
reporting period, the subsidiaries are still in the process of obtaining the certificates of these land use rights
for the following plots of land:
Location Tenure Total land area
(Square Meters)
i) Ju County Anzhuang Dong Cun, Bei Cun
(莒县安庄东村，北村)
50 years from 2 July 2012 42,182
ii) Ju County Anzhuang Town, Xiao Ma Jia Yu
Cun, Huang Jia He Cun, Da Xian Fu Cun
(莒县安庄镇小马家峪村，黄家河村，大咸服村)
50 years from 2 July 2012 58,038
iii) Ju County Xia Zhuang Liu Jia Miao Jiang Cun
(莒县夏庄刘家苗蒋村)
50 years from 2 July 2012 43,172
iv) Ju County Xia Zhuang Sun Jia Po Cun
(莒县夏庄孙家坡村)
50 years from 2 July 2012 69,600
v) Ju Country Qishan Shi Quan Guan Zhuang
Cun (莒县碁山石泉官庄村)
50 years from 2 March 2013 80,000
vi) Ju Country Qishan Shi Quan Guan Zhuang
Cun (莒县碁山石泉官庄村)
50 years from 3 April 2013 56,666.67
vii) Ju Country Qishan Shi Quan Guan Zhuang
Cun (莒县碁山石泉官庄村)
50 years from 4 April 2013 13,333.33
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
74
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
6. Prepayments (continued)
Impairment testing of advance payments
During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amounts. Management
relied on past valuation methods and carried out an impairment review on its advance payments of land
use rights. A reversal of impairment loss of RMB11,090,000 (2019: Nil) representing an impairment loss written
back was recognised in “Other income” (Note 21) in profit or loss. The recoverable amount of the advance
payments of land use rights was determined based on fair value less costs of disposal. The valuation method
used is that of the market approach which is categorised under Level 3 of the fair values hierarchy.
The key assumption to the fair value measurement is as follows:
Land use rights comparable price				
RMB 2,800,000 to RMB 17,400,000
The key assumption includes consideration of the market value in Shandong Province within the region,
economic or external obsolescence and physical deterioration of assets.
7. Inventories
			 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Statement of financial position:			
Raw materials				 3,293 5,081
Finished goods				 6,530 5,721
			
								 9,823 10,802
			
Statement of comprehensive income:			
Inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 		 97,200 112,659
Inclusive of the following charges			
- inventories written down (Note 22)				 692 -
8. Investments in subsidiaries
			 Company
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Unquoted equity shares, at cost 			 172,800 172,800
			
			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
75
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
					 Country of		
					 incorporation/		
					 place of Percentage of
Name of subsidiaries operation equity held Principal activities
						 2020 2019
						 % %
				
Held by the Group				
Shandong Hengbao People’s Republic 100 100 Processing, packaging
Foodstuff Co., Ltd. * of China			 and producing various
								 types of foods
Held by Shandong Hengbao				
Foodstuffs Co., Ltd.				
				
Juxian Hengbao Farming People’s Republic 100 100 Rearing and trading of
Co., Ltd. *		 of China			 livestocks, temporarily
								 ceased operation
				
Juxian Wan Hui Food People’s Republic - 90 Dormant
Co., Ltd. ** of China			
								
				
Juxian Houz Best Food People’s Republic - 90 Dormant
Co., Ltd. ** of China			
* Audited by UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements.
** These entities were sold to a third party on 20 December 2020.
Disposal of subsidiaries
On 20 December 2020, the Group disposed of two 90%-owned subsidiaries, Juxian Wan Hui Food Co., Ltd.
and Juxian Houz Best Food Co., Ltd. to a third party for a total consideration of RMB3,600,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
76
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Disposal of subsidiaries (continued)
The effects of the disposal on the cash flows of the Group were:
							 Juxian Wan Juxian Houz Group at
							 Hui Food Best Food 20 December
							 Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 2020
							 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
Carrying amounts of assets as at the date of disposal: 			
Cash and cash equivalents			 - 8 8
Other receivables 			 2,015 2,009 4,024
					
Total assets				 2,015 2,017 4,032
					
					
Net assets derecognised			 2,015 2,017 4,032
Less: Non-controlling interests			 (201) (202) (403)
					
Net assets disposed of			 1,814 1,815 3,629
					
					
Cash outflows arising from disposal:					
					
Net assets disposed of (as above) 		 1,814 1,815 3,629
Less: 					
Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries disposed of		 - (8) (8)
Recorded in amount due to directors		 (1,800) (1,800) (3,600)
Loss on disposal			 (14) (15) (29)
					
Net cash outflow on disposal			 - (8) (8)
					
					
					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
77
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
9. Property, plant and equipment
Group
					 Leasehold 							
					 buildings 		 Furniture, 				 Construction
					 and Plant and fittings and Motor Other 		 work-in-
					 infrastructure machinery equipment vehicles facilities Renovation progress Total
					 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
		
Cost								
		 At 1 January 2019 364,958 103,578 2,236 1,772 8,025 5,000 42,280 527,849
		 Additions 15,708 500 - - - - 7,322 23,530
		 Written off - - - (257) - - - (257)
		 At 31 December 2019 380,666 104,078 2,236 1,515 8,025 5,000 49,602 551,122
		 Additions - 361 - - - - 374 735
		 Written off (7,237) (73,065) (21) - (2,373) - (42,280) (124,976)
		 At 31 December 2020 373,429 31,374 2,215 1,515 5,652 5,000 7,696 426,881
		Accumulated depreciation								
		 At 1 January 2019 62,867 49,527 2,231 1,728 4,791 5,000 - 126,144
		 Depreciation charge for the
		 year 10,634 5,053 3 11 834 - - 16,535
		 Written off - - - (257) - - - (257)
		 At 31 December 2019 73,501 54,580 2,234 1,482 5,625 5,000 - 142,422
		 Depreciation charge for the
		 year		 11,252 3,753 1 9 700 - - 15,715
		 Written off (977) (33,089) (20) - (1,499) - - (35,585)
		 At 31 December 2020 83,776 25,244 2,215 1,491 4,826 5,000 - 122,552
									
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
78
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
9. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Group
					 Leasehold 							
					 buildings 		 Furniture, 				 Construction
					 and Plant and fittings and Motor Other 		 work-in-
					 infrastructure machinery equipment vehicles facilities Renovation progress Total
					 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
		
Accumulated impairment losses								
		
At 1 January 2019 and								
		 31 December 2019 96,550 31,573 - - - - - 128,123
		 Charge for the year 1,867 - - - - - - 1,867
		 Written back (3,197) (3) - - - - - (3,200)
		 Written off (2,396) (30,642) - - - - - (33,038)
		 At 31 December 2020 92,824 928 - - - - - 93,752
								
		Carrying amount								
		 At 31 December 2020 196,829 5,202 - 24 826 - 7,696 210,577
								
		 At 31 December 2019 210,615 17,925 2 33 2,400 - 49,602 280,577
									
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
79
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
9. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant and equipment of the Group with carrying amount of approximately RMB71,674,000 (2019:
RMB95,804,000) has been pledged to secure the bank loans (Note 15).
Property, plant and equipment of the Group with a carrying amount of RMB66,098,000 (2019: RMB76,650,000)
was previously used in the duck farming business that had temporarily ceased operation. This carrying
amount is after deducting accumulated impairment loss of RMB25,196,000 (2019: RMB55,858,000).
Construction work-in-progress which are stated at cost, comprises factory premises and building under
construction as well as production plants, machinery and other equipment under installation.
Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment
During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount. Management
relied on past valuation methods and carried out an impairment review on its property, plant and equipment.
Arising from this valuation, a reversal of impairment loss of RMB3,200,000 (2019: Nil) representing an impairment
loss written back was recognised in “Other income” (Note 21) and an impairment loss of RMB1,867,000 (2019:
Nil) was recognised in “Other expenses” (Note 22) in profit or loss.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment was based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The valuation method used is that of the replacement cost approach. These are regarded as Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy.
The key assumption to the fair value measurement is as follows:
Residual rate 					 80 - 85%
The key assumption includes consideration of technical obsolescence and physical deterioration of the
property, plant and equipment.
10. Land use rights
Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Cost			
Balance at 1 January and 31 December			 128,861 128,861
			
Accumulated depreciation 		
Balance at 1 January				 19,863 18,367
Amortisation for the year (Note 24)				 1,495 1,496
Balance at 31 December				 21,358 19,863
			
Accumulated impairment losses			
Balance at 1 January				 46,486 46,486
Reversal of impairment loss (Note 21)				 (13,579) -
Balance at 31 December				 32,907 46,486
			
Carrying amount			
Balance at 31 December				 74,596 62,512
			
			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
80
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
10. Land use rights (continued)
The above land use rights relate to:
Location Tenure Total land area
(Square Metres)
∙ Ju County Yanzhuang Town Jianhua Cun Zhu
Di, Weifang Lu Bei Ce (莒县闫庄镇建华村
驻地，潍坊路北侧)
50 years from 22 December
2006 to 10 December 2056
64,427
∙ Ju County Wei Fang Middle Road No.39
(莒县潍坊中路39号)
55 years from 10 June 2011
to 7 January 2066
24,034
∙ Ju County South of Qingzhou Lu, East of
Cheng Yang Lu (莒县青州路以南、城阳路以东)
50 years from 10 May 2011
to 28 July 2061
65,046
∙ Ju County AnZhuang Town, ZhuDi North
Avenue, Dao Huang Road, West
(莒县安庄镇驻地以北道黄路以西)
50 years from 16 May 2011
to 19 January 2061
58,196
∙ Ju County AnZhuang Town, ZhuDi North
Avenue, Dao Huang Road, West
(莒县安庄镇驻地以北道黄路以西)
50 years from 12 May 2011
to 19 October 2061
35,257
∙ Ju County QiShan Town, ShiQuanGuanZhuang
Village (莒县碁山镇石泉官庄村)
50 years from 18 May 2011
to 19 January 2061
68,814
∙ Ju County QiShan Town, ShiQuanGuanZhuang
Village (莒县碁山镇石泉官庄村)
50 years from 23 June 2011
to 19 January 2061
57,967
Land use rights of the Group with carrying amount of approximately RMB19,891,000 (2019: RMB30,130,000)
has been charged to secure the bank loans (Note 15).
Impairment testing of land use rights
During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount. Management
relied on past valuation methods and carried out an impairment review on its land use rights.
Arising from this valuation, a reversal of impairment loss of RMB 13,579,000 (2019: Nil) was recognised in
“Other income” (Note 21) in profit or loss.
The recoverable amount of the land use rights was based on fair value less costs of disposal. The valuation
method used is that of the market approach which is regarded as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The key assumption is as follows:
Land use rights comparable price				 RMB 6,100,000 to RMB 16,400,000
The key assumption includes consideration of the market value in Shandong Province within the region,
economic or external obsolescence and physical deterioration of assets.
11. Other payables
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Accrued operating expenses		 13,185 11,840 402 565
Subsidiary (non-trade)		 - - 6,582 6,445
Sundry payables		 6,157 7,025 2,987 3,105
Tenant deposits		 - 250 - -
							
						 19,342 19,115 9,971 10,115
							
Non-trade amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash on demand.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
81
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
12. Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company
In prior financial year, the amounts due to ex-shareholders consist of a sum of RMB1,291,000 which represents
payment on behalf and a sum of RMB1,770,000 which represents outstanding accrued interest when the
principal amount due was fully repaid in year 2012. These amounts were denominated in Singapore dollar
and were fully repaid on behalf by a director during the financial year.
13. Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company
Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company represent payment on behalf. These amounts are unsecured,
interest-free, repayable in cash on demand and are denominated in Malaysia ringgit.
14. Amounts due to directors
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Current 					
Advances (i) 		 12,773 13,429 10,572 8,393
Advances (ii) 		 20,017 - 20,017 -
							
						 32,790 13,429 30,589 8,393
							
Non-current 					
Advances (ii) 		 - 20,976 - 20,976
							
						 32,790 34,405 30,589 29,369
(i) The amounts due to directors are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash on
demand.
(ii) On 31 December 2018, a loan agreement with the director, Mr. Shen Hengbao was signed for an amount
of RMB20,017,000 (2019: RMB20,976,000) for a 3-year period at an interest rate of 5.50% per annum.
Fair value of non-current amounts due to directors
			 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Amounts due to directors				 - 20,976
			
The fair values above are determined from the cash flow analyses, discounted at market borrowing rates of
an equivalent instrument at the end of the reporting period of 5.50% (2019: 5.50%) per annum. The fair values
are within Level 2 of the fair values hierarchy.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
82
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
15. Bank loans
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Secured bank loans				
				
Industrial Bank Co., Ltd			 #1 - 14,400
兴业银行股份有限公司日照分行				
				
Rural Commercial Bank of Juxian 			 #2 24,460 24,470
山东莒县农村商业银行				
				
Bank of Rizhao 			 #3 20,000 20,000
日照银行股份有限公司莒县支行				
				
China Construction Bank			 #4 24,101 24,300
中国建设银行股份有限公司莒县支行				
				
								 68,561 83,170
The bank loans are secured by:
(i) legal charges over the leasehold land and buildings of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 9;
(ii) legal charges over the land use rights of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 10;
(iii) a corporate guarantee provided by a third party;
(iv) a jointly and severally guarantee provided by certain directors and key management personnel of
certain subsidiaries.
Details of bank loans denominated in renminbi are as follows:
(a) In prior financial year, the bank loan #1 of RMB14,400,000 bears interest of 5.43% over the benchmark
lending rate of People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) per annum. The loan’s effective interest rate is 6.53%
per annum and was repayable within one year.
Due to the impact of Covid-19 outbreak, the People’s Republic of China Government had initiated
financial assistance to special categories of industries such as food industries to avert any possible
financial crises in the near future. As such, the Group has obtained waiver from bank borrowing amounted
RMB14,400,000 and this amount was recognised in “Other income” (Note 21) in profit or loss.
(b) The bank loans #2 of RMB24,460,000 (2019: RMB24,470,000) bear fixed interest rate of 7% (2019: 7%) per
annum and are repayable within one year.
(c) The bank loan #3 of RMB20,000,000 (2019: RMB20,000,000) bears fixed interest rate of 6.96% (2019: 6.96%)
per annum and is repayable within one year.
(d) The bank loan #4 of RMB4,801,000 (2019: RMB5,000,000) bears fixed interest rate of 5.87% (2019: 5.87%)
per annum and bank loans of RMB19,300,000 (2019: 19,300,000) bear interest of 0.91% over the prevailing
prime rate of People’s Bank of China per annum. The effective interest rate is 5.21% (2019: 5.21%) per
annum. The bank loans are repayable within one year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
83
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
15. Bank loans (continued)
A reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:
2020
				 						
Non-cash changes
									 Income from 		 Net off cash 		
									 wavier of Foreign consideration 		
		 				 At Financing Interest bank exchange from disposal Payment At
					 Note 1.1.2020 cash flows expense borrowing movement of subsidiaries on behalf 31.12.2020
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
									
Amounts due to
ex-shareholders 									
of the Company 12 3,061 - - - - - (3,061) -
Amounts due to
a shareholder									
of the Company 13 - - - - - - 3,276 3,276
Amounts due
to directors 14 34,405 2,188 1,113 - (1,101) (3,600) (215) 32,790
Bank loans		 15 83,170 (209) - (14,400) - - - 68,561
									
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
84
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
15. Bank loans (continued)
2019
				 				 Non-cash changes
									 Foreign
						 At Financing Interest exchange At
					 Note 1.1.2019 cash flows expense movement 31.12.2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
						
Amounts due to 						
ex-shareholders of
the Company 12 2,839 - - 222 3,061
Amounts due to 						
ex-shareholders of
a subsidiary		 3,478 (3,478) - - -
Amounts due
to directors 14 41,976 (8,319) 1,133 (385) 34,405
Bank loans		 15 83,180 (1,040) 1,030 - 83,170
16. Share capital
		 Group/Company
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Issued and fully paid			
468,000,000 ordinary shares, with no par value			 146,161 146,161
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All
ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions.
17. Capital reserve
The capital reserve comprises the difference between purchase consideration and attributable net assets
relating to the acquisition of additional interest in a subsidiary from non-controlling interests with no change
in control in 2015.
18. Equity contribution reserve
The equity contribution reserve represents the difference between the gross proceeds and its fair value at
initial measurement and recognition on 25 September 2009 with respect to the aggregate interest free loan
of RMB21,800,000 from the directors and ex-shareholders of a subsidiary. The loan was fully repaid and this
equity contribution reserve was not distributable and was derecognised during the financial year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
85
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
19. Statutory reserve
The Group follows the accounting principles and relevant financial regulations of the People’s Republic of
China (“PRC”) in the preparation of the accounting records and statutory financial statements of the PRC
subsidiaries.
In accordance with the Foreign Enterprise Law applicable to the subsidiaries in the PRC, one of the subsidiaries
of the Group is required to make appropriation to a Statutory Reserve Fund (“SRF”). At least 10% of the
statutory after tax profits as determined in accordance with the applicable PRC accounting standards and
regulations must be allocated to the SRF until the cumulative total of the SRF reaches 50% of the subsidiary’s
registered capital. Subject to approval from the relevant PRC authorities, the SRF may be used to offset any
accumulated losses or increase the registered capital of the subsidiary. The SRF is not available for dividend
distribution to shareholders.
20. Revenue
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Sale of goods				 97,880 157,481
Revenue is recognised at a point in time.
21. Other income
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
				
Foreign exchange gain				 1,340 -
Impairment loss written back on:			
- advance payments of land use rights (Note 6) 		 11,090 -
- land use rights (Note 10)				 13,579 -
- property, plant and equipment (Note 9)			 3,200 -
- trade receivables (Note 5)				 1,556 8,536
Income from wavier of bank borrowing (Note15)			 14,400 -
Rental income				 - 630
Reversal of accrued interest				 345 -
Sundry income				 56 -
			
								 45,566 9,166
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
86
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
22. Other expenses
									 Group
									 2020
									 RMB’000
			
Impairment loss on:			
- inventories (Notes 7)					 692
- property, plant and equipment (Notes 9 and 30) 				 1,867
Property, plant and equipment written off				 56,353
			
									 58,912
23. Finance costs
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
Interest expense on			
- bank loans				 3,264 5,477
- borrowings from ex-shareholders 				 - 122
- borrowings from directors 				 1,113 1,616
			
								 4,377 7,215
24. (Loss)/Profit before income tax
This is stated after charging:
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
Amortisation of land use rights (Note 10)			 1,495 1,496
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 9) 		 15,715 16,535
- recognised in cost of sales				 8,541 8,134
- recognised in administrative expenses			 7,174 8,401
			
			
Employee benefits expense (Note 27) 			 23,916 26,882
- recognised in cost of sales				 19,073 20,994
- recognised in administrative expenses 		 4,843 5,888
			
			
Fees paid/payable to external auditors for: 			
- audit services				 374 395
- non-audit services				 53 56
Foreign exchange loss				 - 937
Legal and professional fee				 866 102
Operating lease expense - land				 173 345
Security and share registration fee				 339 -
Tax expenses - land				 5,914 5,914
Tax expenses - property				 1,997 1,997
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
87
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
25. Income tax expense
There is no income tax expense as the Group has no taxable income for the current and previous financial
years.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
			
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
(Loss)/Profit before income tax				 (45,290) 16,833
			
			
Tax at statutory rate of 25% (2019: 25%)			 (11,000) 4,940
Tax at statutory rate of 17% (2019: 17%)			 (219) (497)
Adjustments:			
- non-deductible expenses				 219 497
- deferred tax assets not recognised 			 7,264 -
- utilisation of deferred tax assets previously not recognised		 - (6,318)
- tax losses disregarded				 3,736 1,378
			
								 - -
			
Unutilised tax losses
As at 31 December 2020, the subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co., Ltd. has unutilised tax losses of
approximately RMB42,111,000 (2019: RMB261,837,000) which are subject to agreement with the relevant tax
authorities. These unutilised tax losses can be carried forward for offsetting against future taxable income
provided that the provisions of the relevant tax legislations are complied with. The tax losses have the
following expiry dates:
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
Expiring in:		
2020						 - 248,783
2021				 		 13,054 13,054
2025						 29,057 -
			
								 42,111 261,837
			
Tax losses disregarded
Pursuant to the corporate income tax law of the PRC under Chapter 4 No 27(1), all PRC companies engaged
in livestock and poultry breeding business are tax exempted. Accordingly, the losses of Juxian Hengbao
Farming Co., Ltd which is engaged in duck farming business are disregarded given that the profits arising
from livestock and poultry breeding are exempted from tax.
Unappropriated profits
Pursuant to the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law, a 10% withholding tax is levied on the dividends to foreign
investors from foreign investment enterprises established in Mainland China. The requirement is effective
from 1 January 2008 and applies to earnings after 31 December 2007. As at 31 December 2020, the PRC
subsidiaries have unappropriated profits amounting to RMB299,297,000 (2019: RMB320,121,000) which have
not yet been utilised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
88
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
25. Income tax expense (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
As at 31 December 2020, the aggregate amount of temporary differences relating to undistributed
profits of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is RMB29,930,000 (2019:
RMB32,012,000). No deferred tax liability has been recognised because the Group is able to control the
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
26. (Loss) / Earnings per share
The basic and diluted (loss) / earnings per share attributable to the owners of the Group is computed as
follows:
		 Group
								 2020 2019
Net (loss)/profit attributable to owners of the Company (RMB’000)		 (45,290) 16,834
			
			
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (‘000)		 468,000 468,000
			
			
(Loss)/Earnings per share (RMB cents)			
- Basic						 (9.68) 3.60
			
- Diluted					 (9.68) 3.60
			
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share are the same as basic (loss)/earnings per share as the Group does not have
potential dilutive shares.
27. Employee benefits expense
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
Salaries, bonuses and related costs (including directors’ remuneration) 23,379 26,327
Employer’s contributions to defined contribution plans 		 537 555
			
							 23,916 26,882
			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
89
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
28. Commitments
28.1 Capital commitments
In prior financial year, capital expenditure contracted for as at the end of the reporting period but
not recognised in the financial statements were as follows:
									 Group
			 						 2019
									 RMB’000
			
			 Construction of duck and poultry slaughter factory			 52,720
			 Construction of feed mill plant					 30,000
			 Construction of production factory			 278
			
									 82,998
28.2 Lease commitments - as lessor
The Group leases out its property and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases. These
leases have remaining lease terms of one year with option to renew the leases after the expiry dates.
In prior financial year, future minimum rental receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at
the end of the reporting period were as follows:
									 Group
			 						 2019
									 RMB’000
			 Within one year					 700
28.3 Financial guarantees
The Group has issued corporate guarantees to banks for bank borrowings granted to third parties
which have provided corporate guarantees to the banks for bank borrowings (Note 15) granted
to the Group. These guarantees are financial guarantee contracts as they require the Group to
reimburse the banks if the third parties fail to make principal or interest payments when due in
accordance with the terms of their respective borrowings.
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			 Corporate guarantees to banks on loans granted to third parties 19,458 31,110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
90
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
29. Related party transactions
In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following
are the significant transactions between the Group and related parties that took place at terms agreed
between the parties during the financial year:
		 Group
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
Compensation of key management personnel			
Short-term benefits paid to:			
Directors of the Company			
- salaries and related costs				 1,400 2,718
- directors’ fees				 331 311
			
								 1,731 3,029
			
			
Other key management personnel			
- salaries and related costs 			 694 700
- employer’s contribution to defined contribution plans			 19 32
			
								 713 732
			
								 2,444 3,761
30. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and has four
reportable operating segments as follows:
(i) Ready-to-serve food
(ii) Frozen vegetables
(iii) Duck farming
(iv) Others
Except as indicated above, no operating segments have been aggregated to/from the above reportable
operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making
decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated
based on operating profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the table below, is measured
differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions
with third parties.
Unallocated costs represent corporate expenses.
Capital expenditure comprised additions to property, plant and equipment, construction in progress and
intangible assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
91
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
30. Segment information (continued)
Financial year ended 31 December 2020
						 Ready-to
						 -serve Frozen
						 food vegetables Others Total
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Revenue (external customers) 44,863 29,818 23,199 97,880
Segment results		 3,494 (4,325) 1,511 680
Other income					 45,566
Unallocated costs					 (87,159)
Finance costs					 (4,377)
							
Loss before income tax					 (45,290)
Income tax expense					 -
							
Net loss for the financial year					 (45,290)
							
							
Other segment information					
Depreciation and amortisation (Notes 9 and 10)				 17,210
Interest expense (Note 23)					 4,377
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment (Note 22)			 1,867
Capital expenditure					 735
Financial year ended 31 December 2019
						 Ready-to
						 -serve Frozen
						 food vegetables Others Total
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
Revenue (external customers) 47,664 78,933 30,884 157,481
							
Segment results		 9,616 29,997 5,209 44,822
Other income					 9,166
Unallocated costs					 (29,940)
Finance costs					 (7,215)
							
Profit before income tax					 16,833
Income tax expense					 -
							
Net profit for the year					 16,833
							
Other segment information
Depreciation and amortisation (Notes 9 and 10)				 18,031
Interest expense (Note 23)					 7,215
Capital expenditure					 23,530
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
92
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
30. Segment information (continued)
The Group’s revenue is categorised based on countries where the customers are located.
			 Revenue
								 2020 2019
								 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
China						 97,880 157,481
All non-current assets are located in the PRC.
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management
31.1 Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying amounts of various categories of financial assets and liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period are as follows:
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
			Financial assets
			 Financial assets at amortised cost 47,424 60,910 16 16
							
			Financial liabilities
			 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 123,969 139,751 43,836 42,545
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Group has documented financial risk management policies. These policies set out the Group’s
overall business strategies and its risk management philosophy. The Group’s overall risk management
strategy seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the objectives and underlying principles of financial
risk management for the Group. Risk management policies and procedures are reviewed regularly
to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to various financial risks and
the objectives, policies and processes for the management of the risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that the counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting
in a loss to the Group. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises primarily from trade and other
receivables. For other financial assets (including cash), the Group minimises credit risk by dealing
exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties. The Group
performs ongoing credit evaluation of its counterparties’ financial condition and generally do not
require a collateral.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
93
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
The Group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there
has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
The Group has determined the default event on a financial asset to be when internal and/or external
information indicates that the financial asset is unlikely to be received, which could include default
of contractual payments due for more than 60 days, default of interest due for more than 30 days or
there is significant difficulty of the counterparty.
To minimise credit risk, the Group has developed and maintained the Group’s credit risk ratings to
categorise exposures according to their degree of risk of default.
The credit rating information is supplied by publicly available financial information and the Group’s
own trading records to rate its major customers and other debtors. The Group considers available
reasonable and supportive forward-looking information which includes the following indicators:
- Internal credit rating
- External credit rating
- Actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions
that are expected to cause a significant change to the debtor’s ability to meet its obligations
- Actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the debtor
- Significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor
- Significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the debtor, including
changes in the payment status of debtors in the group and changes in the operating results of
the debtor.
Regardless of the above analysis, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more
than 60 days past due in making contractual payment.
The Group determined that its financial assets are credit-impaired when:
- There is significant difficulty of the debtor
- A breach of contract, such as a default or past due event
- It is becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
- There is a disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial
difficulty
The Group uses the following categories of internal credit risk rating for financial assets which
are subject to expected credit losses (“ECL”) under the 3-stage general approach. These four
categories reflect the respective credit risk and how the loss provision is determined for each of
those categories.
Category of
internal
credit rating Definition of category
Basis for recognition of
expected credit losses
Performing Borrower or issuer have a low risk of default and
a strong capacity to meet contractual cash flows
12-month expected
credit losses
Under-performing Significant increase in credit risk is presumed if
interest and/or principal repayment are 60 days
past due
Lifetime expected credit
losses
Non-performing Interest and/or principal payment are 365 days
past due
Lifetime expected credit
losses
Write-off Interest and/or principal repayments are 365 days
past due and there is no reasonable expectation
of recovery
Asset is written off
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
94
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
			Credit risk (continued)
The table below details the credit quality of the Group’s financial assets, as well as maximum
exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating categories:
							 12-month Gross 		 Net
							 or lifetime carrying Loss carrying
					 Note Category ECL amount allowance amount
								 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
						
			31 December 2020						
			 Cash and cash 4 NA Exposure 182 - 182
			 equivalents			 Limited			
			 Trade receivables 5 Note 1 Lifetime 47,416 (182) 47,234
							 ECL 			
							 (simplified)			
			 Other receivables 5 I 12-month 8 - 8
							 ECL 			
						
			31 December 2019						
			 Cash and cash 4 NA Exposure 1,574 - 1,574
			 equivalents			 Limited			
			 Trade receivables 5 Note 1 Lifetime 61,066 (1,738) 59,328
							 ECL 			
							 (simplified)			
			 Other receivables 5 I 12-month 8 - 8
							 ECL 			
Trade receivables (Note 1)
For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in SFRS(I) 9 to measure the
loss allowance at lifetime ECL. The Group determines the ECL by using a provision matrix, estimated
based on historical credit loss experience based on the past due status of the debtors, adjusted as
appropriate to reflect current conditions and estimates of future economic conditions. Accordingly,
the credit risk profile of trade receivables is presented based on their past due status in terms of the
provision matrix.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
95
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
			Credit risk (continued)
							 Days past due
					 Current ≤30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days >90 days Total
					 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
						
			31 December 2020				 		
			 ECL rate 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
			 Trade receivables 47,416 - - - - 47,416
			 Loss allowances (182) - - - - (182)
						
			31 December 2019						
			 ECL rate 2.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
			 Trade receivables 61,066 - - - - 61,066
			 Loss allowances (1,738) - - - - (1,738)
			 Information regarding loss allowance movement of trade receivables is disclosed in Note 5.
Excessive risk concentration
Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities,
or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their
ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political
or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to
developments affecting a particular industry.
Exposure to credit risk
At the end of the reporting period, approximately 100% (2019: 100%) of the Group’s trade
receivables were due from 3 (2019: 3) major external customers. The maximum exposure to credit
risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset presented on the statements of
financial position. Cash is placed with banks which are regulated.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments
will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk
arises mainly from bank loans with variable rates. The Group’s policy is to obtain the most favourable
interest rates available and maintain a balanced portfolio mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed based on the outstanding floating rates of the Group’s
bank loans as at the end of the reporting period. If interest rate increases or decreases by 50 basis
points with all other variables held constant, the Group’s loss before tax would increase or decrease
by RMB97,000 (2019: Group’s profit before tax would decrease or increase by RMB169,000), as a
result of lower or higher interest expense on these loans.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
96
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in raising funds to meet
commitments associated with financial instruments.
The Group maintains sufficient cash and cash equivalents, and internally generated cash flows
to finance its activities. Where necessary, it can also obtain financing from its directors and
management is satisfied that such funding is available when required.
As detailed in Note 1.2, management is of the view that the liquidity risk is mitigated as the Group
is confident that it will be able to obtain continuing support from its creditor banks and hence be
able to rollover the bank loans as and when they fall due. In addition, management believes that
its business operation will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to finance its obligations.
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at the end
of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted payments:
			Group
								 1 year Carrying
								 or less amount
			 					 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
			2020					
					
			 Cash and cash equivalents			 182 182
			 Trade and other receivables				 47,242 47,242
			 Total undiscounted financial assets			 47,424 47,424
					
					
			 Other payables				 19,342 19,342
			 Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company			 3,276 3,276
			 Amounts due to directors				 34,992 34,992
			 Bank loans				 72,953 72,953
								
			 Total undiscounted financial liabilities		 130,563 130,563
			 Total net undiscounted financial liabilities			 (83,139) (83,139)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
97
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
			Liquidity risk (continued)
					 				 Carrying
						 1 year or less 1 to 5 years amount
							 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
			2019					
					
			 Cash and cash equivalents			 1,574 - 1,574
			 Trade and other receivables 		 59,336 - 59,336
			 Total undiscounted financial assets		 60,910 - 60,910
					
			 Other payables			 19,115 - 19,115
			 Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company 3,061 - 3,061
			 Amounts due to directors 		 14,583 22,130 36,713
			 Bank loans			 87,085 - 87,085
			 Total undiscounted financial liabilities 123,844 22,130 145,974
					
			 Total net undiscounted financial liabilities (62,934) (22,130) (85,064)
			Company
								 1 year Carrying
								 or less amount
			 					 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
			2020					
			 Cash and cash equivalents				 8 8
			 Trade and other receivables				 8 8
			 Total undiscounted financial assets			 16 16
					
			 Other payables				 9,971 9,971
			 Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company			 3,276 3,276
			 Amounts due to directors				 32,791 32,791
			 Total undiscounted financial liabilities			 46,038 46,038
					
			 Total net undiscounted financial liabilities			 (46,022) (46,022)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
98
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
			Liquidity risk (continued)
					 				 Carrying
						 1 year or less 1 to 5 years amount
							 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
					
			2019					
			 Cash and cash equivalents			 8 - 8
			 Trade and other receivables			 8 - 8
			 Total undiscounted financial assets		 16 - 16
					
			 Other payables			 10,115 - 10,115
			 Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company 3,061 - 3,061
			 Amounts due to directors 		 9,547 22,130 31,677
			 Total undiscounted financial liabilities 22,723 22,130 44,853
					
			 Total net undiscounted financial liabilities (22,707) (22,130) (44,837)
			 Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises when transactions or balances are denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk mainly on its sales and purchases and other transactions
that are denominated primarily in Singapore dollar (“SGD”) and Malaysian ringgit (“RM”).
The Group does not enter into currency options and does not use forward exchange contracts for
speculative trading purposes. The Group’s and Company’s main exposures to foreign currencies
are as follows:
Group
						 SGD RM
					 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
2020			
Cash and cash equivalents				 - 8
Trade and other receivables				 - 8
Other payables				 (3,169) (791)
Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company			 - (3,276)
Amounts due to directors				 (23,413) (181)
						 (26,582) (4,232)
			
2019			
Cash and cash equivalents				 - 8
Trade and other receivables				 - 8
Other payables				 (3,840) (212)
Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company		 (3,061) -
Amounts due to directors 			 (23,677) (239)
						 (30,578) (435)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
99
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
			 Foreign currency risk (continued)
			Company
								 SGD RM
							 RMB’000 RMB’000
			
			2020			
			 Cash and cash equivalents				 - 8
			 Trade and other receivables				 - 8
			 Other payables				 (2,599) (791)
			 Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company			 - (3,276)
			 Amounts due to directors				 (23,413) (181)
								 (26,012) (4,232)
			
			2019			
			 Cash and cash equivalents				 - 8
			 Trade and other receivables				 - 8
			 Other payables				 (3,460) (210)
			 Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company		 (3,061) -
			 Amounts due to directors				 (23,677) (239)
							 (30,198) (433)
Sensitivity analysis
A 3% strengthening of the Chinese renminbi against the following currencies at the reporting date
would affect profit or loss before tax as shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables,
in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Group
						 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000
						 Decrease loss Increase profit
						 before before
						 income tax income tax
			
Singapore dollar				 797 917
Malaysian ringgit				 127 13
						 924 930
			
Company
						 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000
						Decrease loss before income tax
			
Singapore dollar				 780 906
Malaysian ringgit				 127 13
						 907 919
A 3% weakening of the Chinese renminbi against the above currencies would have equal but
opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other
variables remain constant.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
100
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.3 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the statement of
financial position where the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised
amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously.
The following table presents the recognised financial instruments that are offset as at 31 December
2020 and 31 December 2019.
								 Gross
								 amounts set Net amounts
								 off in the presented in
								 statement the statement
							 Gross of financial of financial
							 amounts position position
							 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
			2020			
			
			Financial assets			
			 Cash and cash equivalents 		 182 - 182
			 Trade and other receivables 		 70,460 (23,218) 47,242
			Total			 70,642 (23,218) 47,424
			
			
			Financial liabilities			
			 Trade and other payables 		 42,560 23,218 19,342
			 Amounts due to a shareholder of the Company 3,276 - 3,276
			 Amounts due to directors 		 32,790 - 32,790
			 Bank loans			 68,561 - 68,561
			Total			 147,187 23,218 123,969
			
			2019					
					
			Financial assets					
			 Cash and cash equivalents 		 1,574 - 1,574
			 Trade and other receivables 		 74,033 (14,697) 59,336
			Total			 75,607 (14,697) 60,910
			
					
			Financial liabilities					
			 Trade and other payables 		 33,812 14,697 19,115
			 Amounts due to ex-shareholders of the Company 3,061 - 3,061
			 Amounts due to directors			 34,405 - 34,405
			 Bank loans			 83,170 - 83,170
			Total			 154,448 14,697 139,751
			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
101
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.4 Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern and to maintain an adequate and efficient capital structure so as to
maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or achieve an optimal capital structure, the Group
may issue new shares or obtain additional borrowings.
No changes were made to the policies or processes of capital management for the financial years
ended 31 December 2020 and 2019.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements, except for a subsidiary
of the Group as disclosed in Note 19 which is required by the Foreign Enterprise Law of the PRC to
contribute to and maintain a non-distributable statutory reserve fund whose utilisation is subject to
approval by the relevant PRC authorities. This externally imposed capital requirement has been
complied with by the subsidiary for the financial years ended 31 December 2020 and 2019.
The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2019.
32. Fair value of financial instruments
32.1 Fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value
			Fair value hierarchy
The Group classifies fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance
of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
• Level 1 - Quote prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset
or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
• Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs).
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the financial
years ended 31 December 2020 and 2019.
32.2 Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying
			 amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value
Management has determined that the carrying amounts of current financial assets and liabilities
approximate their fair values because these instruments are short-term in nature or repriced
frequently.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
102
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
33. Events occurring after the reporting period
(i) Covid-19
With the Covid-19 pandemic still raging globally and causing unprecedented disruption to economic
activity, the Group continues to prioritise cash conservation and cost control as well as to continue to
focus on increase the consumption of our products among consumers in People’s Republic of China.
Besides, sustainability remains a top priority for the Group. The Group will stay agile and keep the interests
of our consumers and safety of our people at the forefront.
The performance of the Group for the new financial year ending 2021 will remain challenging with the
current uncertainty in the global and local economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
However, management is cautious on the potential impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and will continue
to manage the Group’s businesses with vigilance during this period of uncertainty.
If this unprecedented health and economic crisis can be improved in the near term with vaccination,
the Group expects that its performance to improve for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
In addition, due to the impact of trade war between the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and the
United States of America, economic slowdown in PRC and outbreak of swine fever, the Government
of PRC had initiated financial assistance to companies in food processing industry. This is to avert any
possible financial crises in the near future. One of the Group’s subsidiaries is negotiating with Rural
Commercial Bank of Juxian and China Construction Bank for this special financial assistance scheme on
its current borrowings and may need further endorsement by the Government of PRC in the near future.
(ii) Private placement
On 26 March 2021, the Group completed a private placement of 93,600,000 new ordinary shares at
issued price of RM0.185 per share for a total cash consideration of RM17,361,000.
(iii) Proposed acquisition of a subsidiary
On 1 April 2021, the Group entered into a conditional share sale agreement with Lean Kock Kiang
and Lee Sek Ang for the proposed acquisition of 600,000 ordinary shares in Forward Resources and
Construction Sdn Bhd (“Forward Resources”), representing 60% equity interest in Forward Resources, for
a purchase consideration of RM66 million to be satisfied via the issuance of 208,413,740 ordinary shares
in the Group at an issue price of RM0.2591 each and RM12 million in cash.
34. Supplementary information - breakdown of accumulated profits/(losses) into realised and unrealised
The breakdown of the accumulated profits/(losses) of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
2020 into realised profit/(loss) and unrealised profit is presented in accordance with the directive issued by
Bursa Securities dated 20 December 2010 and prepared in accordance with Guidance on Special Matter
No. 1, Determination of Realised and Unrealised Profits or Losses in the Context of Disclosure Pursuant to
MMLR, as issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (cont’d)
103
Annual Report 2020
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
34. Supplementary information - breakdown of accumulated profits/(losses) into realised and unrealised
(continued)
		 Group Company
						 2020 2019 2020 2019
						 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
							
Total accumulated profit/(loss) of the
Company and its subsidiaries
- Realised profit/(loss)		 89,139 128,373 (18,426) (14,954)
- Unrealised gain/(loss) 1,245 (936) 1,245 (936)
							
					 90,384 127,437 (17,181) (15,890)
35. Standards issued but not yet effective
The Group has not adopted the following standards applicable to the Group that have been issued but not
yet effective:
Description		 Effective for annual
					 periods beginning
					 on or after
Amendments to SFRS(I) 9 Financial Instruments,
SFRS(I) 1-39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement,
SFRS(I) 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures,
SFRS(I) 4 Insurance Contracts, SFRS(I) 16 Leases: Interest Rate
Benchmark Reform - Phase 2 1 January 2021
Amendments to SFRS(I) 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-37 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a
Contract		 1 January 2022
Annual Improvements to SFRS(I)s 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-16 Property, Plant and Equipment
- Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 Presentation of Financial Statements
- Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2023
The directors are still in their preliminary assessment of the above standards but expect that the adoption
of these new standards will not have any material impact on the financial statements in the year of initial
application.
104
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
GROUP PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO
The landed property of the Group as at the date of this Annual Report is as follows:
(i) Land
Our subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao has obtained the State-owned Land Use Right Certificates for the
following seven (7) parcels of land and seven (7) parcels of land without certificate, the details of which are
set out below:
No. Land No. / Location
State-owned
Land Use Right
Certificate No.
/ Certificate
Issuance Date
Tenure /
Expire of
Tenure
Revaluation /
Acquisition
Land Area
(Square Metres)
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2020
RMB’000
1. 2011-18/
ShiQuanGuanZhuan
Village, QiShan
Town, Ju County
Shandong Province,
PRC (“Land X”)
Juguoyong
(2011)
No. 377/
23.05.2011
44 years /
19.01.2061
2020 57,967.00 12,066
2. 2011-10/Huang
Road, ZhuDi North
Avenue, West,
Anzhuan Town Ju
County Shandong
Province, PRC
(“Land VIII”)
Juguoyong
(2011)
No. 178/
18.05.2011
44 years /
19.01.2061
2020 68,814.00 14,324
3. 2011-12/Huang
Road, ZhuDi North
Avenue, West,
Anzhuan Town Ju
County Shandong
Province,
PRC (“Land VII”)
Juguoyong
(2011)
No. 118/
16.05.2011
44 years /
19.01.2061
2020 58,196.00 12,114
4. Anzhuang Town
Baowa Village East,
Daohuang Road
West, Ju Country
Shandong
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No. 0006656/
01.11.2017
44 years /
13.10.2061
2020 35,257.00 7,376
5. South of Qingzhou
Road, East of
Chengyang Road,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juguoyong
(2015)
No. 116/
07.12.2015
44 years /
28.07.2061
2020 65,046.00 16,201
6. Weifang Road No.
39, Ju Country
Shandong
Lu (2016) Ju
property rights
No. 0000826/
10.06.2011
49 years /
01.07.2066
2020 24,034.00 6,014
7. Yanzhuang Town
Dachang Anpo
Village, Jianhua
Village, Ju Country
Shandong
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No.0006660/
01.11.2017
46 years /
08.11.2058
2020 64,426.96 6,501
105
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
GROUP PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO (cont’d)
No. Land No. / Location
State-owned
Land Use Right
Certificate No.
/ Certificate
Issuance Date
Tenure /
Expire of
Tenure
Revaluation /
Acquisition
Land Area
(Square Metres)
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2020
RMB’000
8. An Zhuang Zhen
East Village, North
Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juguoyong
No. 2012-18/
02.07.2012
44 years /
01.07.2062
2020 42,182.00 8,882
9. An Zhuang Xiao
Ma Jiayu Village,
Huangjiahe village,
Daxianfu Village,
Ju Country,
Shandong
Juguoyong
No. 2012-30/
02.07.2012
44 years /
01.07.2062
2020 58,038.00 12,222
10. Xia Zhuang Town
Liu Jiamiao Jiang
Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juguoyong
No. 2012-38/
02.07.2012
44 years /
01.07.2062
2020 43,172.00 9,269
11. Xiazhuang Town Sun
Jiapo Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juguoyong
No. 2012-40/
02.07.2012
44 years /
01.07.2062
2020 69,600.00 14,943
12. Qishanshi
Quanguan Zhuang
Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juxian
No. 01-2013-
0022/
02.03.2013
44 years /
01.03.2063
2020 80,000.00 17,255
13. Qishanshi
Quanguan Zhuang
Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juxian
No. 01-2013-
0036/
03.04.2013
44 years /
02.04.2063
2020 56,666.67 11,992
14. Qishanshi
Quanguan Zhuang
Village,
Ju Country
Shandong
Juxian
No. 01-2013-
0038/
04.04.2013
44 years /
03.04.2063
2020 13,333.33 2,767
Grand Total 736,732.96 151,926
106
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
GROUP PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO (cont’d)
(ii) Leasehold Building and Infrastructure
Details of the Leasehold Building and Infrastructure held by our subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao are set out
below :-
No. Location
Description /
Existing Use
Certificate
of Real
Estate
Ownership
No. /
Certificate
of Issuance
Date
Built-up
Area
(Square
Metres)
Approximate
Age
(Years)
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2020
RMB’000
1. First Production Plant
North of Weifang
Middle Road No. 1,
Ju County Shandong
Province PRC
A single-
storey
factory
building and
a five-storey
workers’
hostel,
warehouse
and workers’
hotel
Lu (2017)
Ju property
rights
No.0006660/
01.11.2017
28,221.12 9 2020 33,826
2. Third Production Plant
North of Weifang
Road No. 1, Ju
County Shandong
Province PRC
A single-
storey
factory
building /
Production
plant
Lu (2016)
Ju property
rights No.
0000826/
10.06.2011
23,938.00 4 – 11 2020 68,347
3. Head Quarter and
R&D Centre
North of Weifang
Road No. 1, Ju
County Shandong
Province PRC
An eight
storey office
building
equipped
with R&D
facilities
Ju Fang
Quan
Zheng
Cheng
Qu Zi
No.
20134138/
24.10.2013
14,851.35 8 – 11 2020 23,558
4. Incubation Facilities
ZhuDi North Avenue,
West
AnZhuang Town, Ju
County Shandong
Province PRC
A single
storey
factory
building
/hatching
plant
Lu (2017)
Ju property
rights No.
0006656/
01.11.2017
16,297.00 8 – 9 2020 26,015
5. Duck Farm 1
ZhuDi North Avenue,
West AnZhuang
Town, Ju County
Shandong Province
PRC
A duck farm
completed
15 duck
sheds
* 23,250.00 8 – 9 2020 12,329
6. Duck Farm 2
ZhuDi North
Avenue,West
AnZhuang Town, Ju
County
Shandong Province
PRC
A duck farm
completed
15 duck
sheds
* 22,472.72 8 – 9 2020 11,133
7. Duck Farm 3
2011-18 /
ShiQuanGuanZhuan
Village, QiShan Town,
Ju County Shandong
Province, PRC
A duck farm
completed
15 duck
sheds
* 16,008.00 8 2020 16,621
Grand Total 196,829
* The company has yet to receive certificate of real estate ownership as at todate
107
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
STATISTICS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 12 APRIL 2021
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 12 APRIL 2021
Size of Shareholdings 		 No. of % of No. of % of
						 Shareholders Shareholders Shares Issued Share
Less than 100 			 15 0.5302 500 0.0001
100 - 1,000 				 177 6.2566 98,700 0.0176
1,001 - 10,000 			 925 32.6971 6,306,200 1.1229
10,001 - 100,000 		 1,262 44.6094 50,377,000 8.9703
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 		 447 15.8006 339,781,600 60.5024
5% and above of issued shares 		 3 0.1060 165,036,000 29.3867
Total					 2,829 100.00 561,600,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE COMPANY’S REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 12 APRIL 2021)
						 No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
No. Name of Substantial Shareholder		 Direct % Indirect %
1 KEH CHUAN SENG		 129,500,000 23.0591 -		 -
2. CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR LGT BANK AG (FOREIGN) 35,536,000 6.3276 -		 -
3 Shen Hengbao		 - - 35,536,000 (a) 6.3276
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Hengbao Foodstuffs Holding Limited pursuant to Section 4A of
the Companies Act of Singapore, Cap.50
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AS AT 12 APRIL 2021
						 No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
No. Name of Director 		 Direct % Indirect %
1 Keh Chuan Seng		 129,500,000 23.0591 -		 -
2 Shen Hengbao 		 - - 35,536,000(a) 6.3276
3 Yang Chin Shen 		 - - -		 -
4 Ho Pui Hold			 - - -		 -
5 Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat		 - - -		 -
6 Khoo Chee Siang		 - - -		 -
7 Lee Ping Wei		 - - -		 -
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Hengbao Foodstuffs Holding Limited pursuant to Section 4A of
the Companies Act of Singapore, Cap.50
108
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
LIST OF TOP THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 12 APRIL 2021)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1 KEH CHUAN SENG 94,500,000 16.8269
2 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD ( 263367W )
EXEMPT AN FOR LGT BANK AG (FOREIGN)
FOR HENGBAO FOODSTUFFS HOLDING LIMITED 35,536,000 6.3276
3 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD ( 258939H )
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN SENG 35,000,000 6.2322
4 HOOI JIA HAO 14,733,900 2.6236
5 LEOW CHOON CHANG 13,513,500 2.4063
6 SIM SHIAU TYNG 12,336,000 2.1966
7 LAM YEOW YIN 10,810,800 1.9250
8 KHOR WEI HAN 8,108,100 1.4438
9 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD ( 263367W )
EXEMPT AN FOR BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD (SBL/PB) 7,443,300 1.3254
10 NG WEI YEE		 6,934,100 1.2347
11 CHIN CHIN SEONG 6,021,200 1.0722
12 PANG CHIN KAN 6,000,000 1.0684
13 YONG KIM SIONG 5,883,600 1.0476
14 YEONG JOO HOCK 5,012,100 0.8925
15 GAN BOON CHEW 4,900,000 0.8725
16 CHOO KIM HIN 4,452,900 0.7929
17 BROTHER ASSETS FUND HOUSE CORP. 4,356,700 0.7758
18 KOH KEAN LOON 4,319,800 0.7692
19 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD ( 258939H )
CHUA ENG HO WA’A @ CHUA ENG WAH 4,000,000 0.7123
20 TAN SWOOI HENG 3,972,000 0.7073
21 KEH CHUAN CHOON 3,930,100 0.6998
22 GOH PHAIK LIM 3,808,000 0.6781
23 TAN CHOR KHAI 3,783,800 0.6738
24 WONG YONG LEE 3,762,000 0.6699
25 CHONG LOI TAI 3,434,200 0.6115
26 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. ( 41117T )
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHU KERD YEE (M01) 3,400,000 0.6054
27 LAM JI HO		 3,000,000 0.5342
28 NG CHONG MING 3,000,000 0.5342
29 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD ( 4381U )
SOCIETE GENERALE PARIS 2,971,100 0.5290
30 ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD ( 42234H )
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN JAI WEI (6000352) 2,800,000 0.4986
					 321,723,200 57.2873
STATISTICS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (cont’d)
AS AT 12 APRIL 2021
109
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fourteenth (14th) Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at No.
17-04 Blk B, Austin V Square, Jln Austin Perdana 2, Taman Austin Perdana, 81100 Johor Bahru, Johor on Monday,
14 June 2021 at 9.00 a.m., to transact the following businesses:-
AGENDA
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements of the Company and of the Group
for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 together with the Reports of the
Directors and Auditors thereon.
2. To re-elect Mr Ho Pui Hold, who retires pursuant to Article 104 of the Company’s
Articles of Association.
3. To re-elect Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat who retires pursuant to Article 111 of the
Company’s Articles of Association.
4. To re-elect Mr Khoo Chee Siang who retires pursuant to Article 111 of the Company’s
Articles of Association.
5. To re-elect Mr Lee Ping Wei who retires pursuant to Article 111 of the Company’s
Articles of Association.
6. To re-elect Mr Keh Chuan Seng who retires pursuant to Article 111 of the Company’s
Articles of Association.
7. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31
December 2020.
8. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Company for the
ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
9. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
“THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies Act of Singapore,
Cap. 50, and subject otherwise to the provisions of that Act and the Articles of
association of the Company, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to issue
shares of the Company to such persons and on such terms and conditions and
with such rights or restrictions as they may think fit to impose, provided that the
aggregate number of shares to be issued does not exceed 10% of the issued share
capital of the Company for the time being, and subject always to the approval of
all the relevant regulatory bodies having been obtained for such allotment and
issue, and that such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting or the expiration of the period within which the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company is required by law to be held, whichever
is the earlier.”
As Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions:
10. SPECIAL RESOLUTION
Proposed Adoption Of New Constitution
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to revoke the existing constitution of
the Company with immediate effect and in place thereof, the proposed new
constitution of the Company, as set out in the “Appendix A” accompanying the
Company’s Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 be
and is hereby adopted as the constitution of the Company.
AND THAT the directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to assent
to any modifications, variations and/or amendments as may be required by the
relevant authorities and to do all acts and things and take all such steps as may
be considered necessary to give full effect to the foregoing.”
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
(Ordinary Resolution 1)
(Ordinary Resolution 2)
(Ordinary Resolution 3)
(Ordinary Resolution 4)
(Ordinary Resolution 5)
(Ordinary Resolution 6)
(Ordinary Resolution 7)
(Ordinary Resolution 8)
(Special Resolution 1)
110
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (cont’d)
11. To transact any other business of the Company for which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
KEH CHUAN SENG
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
7 May 2021
NOTES ON APPOINTMENT OF PROXY:
1. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member and / or a qualified
legal practitioner, an approved company auditor or a person approved by the Registrar of Companies.
2. Where a member duly executes the form of proxy but does not name any proxy, such member shall be
deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the meeting as his/their proxy, provided always that the rest
of the proxy form, other than the particulars of the proxy have been duly completed by the member.
3. Where a member appoints more than one proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the
proportion of his holding to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories
Act which is exempted from compliance with the provision of subsection 25A(1) of the Central Depositories
Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one Securities Account
(“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. In the case of a corporate member, the instrument appointing a proxy shall be under its Common Seal or
under the hand of an officer or attorney, duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar’s Office in Malaysia
at Level 5, Block B, Dataran PHB, Saujana Resort, Section U2, 40150 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia not less
than 48 hours before the time for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 14th Annual General Meeting,
the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a General Meeting Record of
Depositors as at 4 June 2021. Only members whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 4 June
2021 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on his/her behalf.
8. Please be informed that in the event the Movement Control Order is extended, the Company will make
the necessary arrangement and announcement on details of the virtual Annual General Meeting via Bursa
Securities and Company’s website.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2020
The Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 174(5) of the Companies Act of Singapore provide
that the audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
2. Retirement of Director
Article 104 of the Company’ Articles of Association states that one-third (1/3) of the Directors for the time
being, or, if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third (1/3)
shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall retain office until the close of the
meeting at which he retires.
111
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Annual Report 2020
3. Ordinary Resolution 8 : Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, is a renewal of the general mandate to empower the Directors
to issue and allot shares up to an amount not exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company
for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the best interest of the Company.
This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a General Meeting, will expire at the next Annual
General Meeting.The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, is a renewal of the General Mandate to
empower the Directors to issue and allot shares up to an amount not exceeding 10% of the issued share
capital of the Company for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the best
interest of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a General Meeting, will
expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s) workings
capital and/or acquisitions.
As at the date of this Notice, a new issue of securities via private placement amounted 93,600,000 in the
Company were issued pursuant to the general mandate granted to the Directors at 25 March 2021.
4. Special Resolution 1 : Proposed adoption of New Constitution
The Special Resolution, if passed, will align the Constitution of the Company with the Companies Act of
Singapore, Cap.50 and Companies Act 2016 (“CA 2016”) which came into force on 31 January 2017, the
updated provisions of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
and the prevailing statutory and regulatory requirements as well as to provide clarity and consistency with
the amendments that arise from the CA 2016 and MMLR.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
No notice of nomination has been received to date from any member nominating any individual for election
as a Director at the 14th Annual General Meeting of the Company. There is therefore no individual standing for
election as Director, save for the above Director who are standing for re-election.
Further details of Director standing for re-election as Director is set out in his profile which appear in the Directors’
Profile of this Annual Report and the details of his interests in the securities of the Company is disclosed in the
Statistics of Shareholdings of this Annual Report.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 3 for information relating to general mandate for issue of securities.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (cont’d)
This page is intentinally left blank.
PROXY FORM
NUMBER OF SHARES HELD CDS ACCOUNT NO.
HBGLOBALLIMITED
I / We (Full Name in Block Letters)
NRIC No. / Passport No. / Company No.
of
being a member / members of HB GLOBAL LIMITED, hereby appoint
NRIC No. / Passport No.
of
and or
NRIC No. / Passport No.
of
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as my / our proxy to vote and act on my / our behalf at the Fourteenth
(14th) Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at No. 17-04 Blk B, Austin V Square, Jln Austin Perdana 2,
Taman Austin Perdana, 81100 Johor Bahru, Johor on Monday, 14 June 2021 at 9.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
The proportion of my/our* holding to be represented by my/our* proxies are as follows:
First Proxy (1)				 Second Proxy (2)
My/our* proxy is to vote as indicated below :
NO. ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FOR AGAINST
1. To re-elect Mr Ho Pui Hold as Director.
2. To re-elect Dato’ Chow Chin Kiat as Director.
3. To re-elect Mr Khoo Chee Siang as Director.
4. To re-elect Mr Lee Ping Wei as Director.
5. To re-elect Mr Keh Chuan Seng as Director.
6. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December
2020.
7. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Company for the
ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
To approve the ordinary resolution pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act of
Singapore, Cap.50.
9. SPECIAL RESOLUTION
To approve proposed Adoption of New Constitution
Please indicate with “X” where appropriate against each resolution how you wish to cast your vote. In the absence of
specific directions, the proxy may vote or abstain from voting in the resolutions as he / she may think fit.
Signature of Shareholder(s)
(If shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
Date :
NOTES:
1. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies
to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member and / or a qualified legal practitioner, an approved
company auditor or a person approved by the Registrar of Companies.
2. Where a member duly executes the form of proxy but does not name any proxy, such member shall be deemed to have
appointed the Chairman of the meeting as his/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the proxy form, other than the
particulars of the proxy have been duly completed by the member.
3. Where a member appoints more than one proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his
holding to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is
exempted from compliance with the provision of subsection 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act which holds ordinary shares
in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one Securities Account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of
proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. In the case of a corporate member, the instrument appointing a proxy shall be under its Common Seal or under the hand of an
officer or attorney, duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar’s Office in Malaysia at Level 5, Block B,
Dataran PHB, Saujana Resort, Section U2, 40150 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia not less than 48 hours before the time for holding
the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 14th Annual General Meeting, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 4 June 2021. Only
members whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 4 June 2021 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or
appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on his/her behalf.
8. Please be informed that in the event the Movement Control Order is extended, the Company will make the necessary
arrangement and announcement on details of the virtual Annual General Meeting via Bursa Securities and Company’s website.
Fold here
Fold here
Please affix
postage stamp
here
The Company Registrar’s Office in Malaysia
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
c/o Boardroom.com Sdn Bhd
Level 5, Block B, Dataran PHB,
Saujana Resort, Section U2,
40150 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
