HB GLOBAL LIMITED
(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
HB GLOBAL LIMITED (Company Registration No.:200608505W) ANNUAL REPORT 2023
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
Corporate Information 2
Board of Directors’ Profiles 3
Profiles of Key Senior Management 6
Chairman Statement 7
Management Discussion and Analysis 9
Corporate Sustainability Statement 12
Corporate Governance Overview Statement 53
Audit Committee Report 67
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control 72
Other Disclosure Requirements Pursuant to 74
the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities
Directors’ Statement 75
Statutory Declaration 79
Independent Auditors’ Report 80
Statements of Financial Position 85
Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss and Other 87
Comprehensive Income
Statements of Changes in Equity 88
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 91
Notes to the Financial Statements 93
Group Properties Portfolio 170
Statistics of Shareholdings 172
Notice of Annual General Meeting 175
Statement Accompanying Notice of Annual General Meeting 178
Proxy Form
CONTENTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
2
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CORPORATE INFORMATION
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Yang Chin Shen - Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Ho Pui Hold - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
		
Lew Seh Li - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Ho Pui Hold - Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Yang Chin Shen - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Lew Seh Li - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
		
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chan Kay Ding - Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive
Chairman)
		
Ho Pui Hold - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Yang Chin Shen - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
		
RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Ho Pui Hold - Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Yang Chin Shen - Member
(Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Keh Chuan Yee - Member
(Executive Director)
COMPANY SECRETARY
Ong Tian Soon
(FA 20122993) Filing Agent under
Section 28F
of the ACRA Act 2014
		
AGENT IN MALAYSIA
Boardroom.com Sdn Bhd
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B
Northpoint Mid Valley City
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara
59200 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur
		
REGISTERED OFFICE IN
SINGAPORE
726A Geylang Road
Singapore 389637
Republic of Singapore
Telephone No.: +65 6255 5977
		
REGISTERED OFFICE IN
MALAYSIA
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B
Northpoint Mid Valley City
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara
59200 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur
Telephone No.: +6(03) 9770 2200
Facsimile No.: +6(03) 2201 7774
		
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
(Listed since 17 December 2010)
Stock name: HBGLOB
Stock Code: 5187
		
HEAD OFFICE
6th Floor, VIDA Bukit Ceylon
1D, Jalan Ceylon
Bukit Ceylon
50200 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur
Telephone No.: + 6(03) 2733 3388
Email: contact@hbglob.com
Website: www.hbglob.com
		
AUDITORS
Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.
6001 Beach Road
#14-01 Golden Mile Tower
Singapore 199589
Telephone No.: +65 6395 5100
SHARE REGISTRAR IN
MALAYSIA
Aldpro Corporate
Services Sdn Bhd
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B
Northpoint Mid Valley City
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara
59200 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur
Telephone No.: +6(03) 9770 2200
Facsimile No.: +6(03) 2201 7774
		
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
China Construction Bank
Corporation
(Ju County Branch)
No. 25, Zhenxin Road
Ju County Shandong Province PRC
Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China Limited
(Ju County Branch)
No. 102, Fulai Middle Road
Ju County Shandong Province
PRC
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Berhad
Alor Setar Branch
55 Jalan Gangsa, Kawasan
Perusahaan Mergong 2
05150 Alor Setar, Kedah
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chan Kay Ding Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Shen Hengbao Chief Executive Officer
Keh Chuan Yee Executive Director
Yang Chin Shen Independent Non-Executive Director
Ho Pui Hold Independent Non-Executive Director
Lew Seh Li Independent Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
3
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
CHAN KAY DING
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Chan Kay Ding, a Malaysian, male, aged 30 was
appointed as the Independent Non-Executive
Chairman on 22 February 2024. He is a member of
Remuneration Committee.
Mr Chan Kay Ding, who is also known as Damien Chan
completed his pupilage in Messrs. Chooi, Saw & Lim
and was admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor of the
High Court of Malaya in 2017. He then joined Messrs. Sri
Ram as a junior associate. Throughout his early years
as a litigator, he had the honour and opportunity to
assist prominent senior counsel i.e Dato Lim Choon
Khim and Datuk Seri Gopal Sri Ram (retired Federal
Court Judge).
He later continued his legal practicing career in
Messrs. Kevin & Co. where he was promoted as a
Senior Associate cum Head of Litigation in his third year
with the firm. He also lectured and prepared aspiring
lawyers for the Certificate of Legal Practice (CLP)
examination in Criminal Procedure and Land Law with
Advance Tertiary College (ATC). He is also a co-author
of a law textbook titled Criminal Procedure & Practice
in Malaysia. His journey has allowed him to be exposed
to a plethora of experiences in contentious litigation
matters ranging from civil, commercial, and corporate
disputes and criminal defense briefs (including capital
punishment offences) which often leads to appeals
to appellate courts, in particular he was in charge
of disputes between public listed companies and
their subsidiaries. Besides that, he is also well-versed
in corporate drafting and advisory. He subsequently
set-up his practice on 1 December 2021 and he is
currently the Managing Partner of Messrs. Damien
Chan, Hannibal & Ng Chambers.
KEH CHUAN YEE
Executive Director
Keh Chuan Yee, a Malaysian, male, aged 31 was
appointed as the Executive Director on 15 October
2021. He is a member of Risk Management Committee.
He graduated from Newcastle University, United
Kingdom in 2015 and obtained his Masters in Financial
Analysis from the University of New South Wales,
Australia in 2017.
He embarked on his professional career with Public
Bank Limited in 2015, where he initially served as a
credit analyst. During his tenure there, he gained
valuable experience in analyzing credit risks and
assessing financial data. Building upon this foundation,
he transitioned to Frazel Group Sdn Bhd in 2017,
assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer. In his
current position, he plays a pivotal role in overseeing
the financial operations and strategies of the
company, contributing to its growth and success.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
4
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
(cont’d)
SHEN HENGBAO
Chief Executive Officer
Shen Hengbao, a national of the People’s Republic
of China (“PRC”), male, aged 62, was appointed as
our Chief Executive Officer on 12 October 2009. He is
the founder of our Group and has more than 27 years
of experience in the PRC food industry and export
business. He has been spearheading the expansion
and growth of our Group since the commencement
of our Group’s business in 2005.
He graduated from Linyi Agricultural Academy in 1982
and obtained his Masters in Business Administration
from the Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences in 1998. He also obtained his Masters in
Business Administration from the California American
University in 2001.
He started his career with Ju County Foreign Trade
Company (莒县外贸公司) in 1982 as the head of
department of livestock obstetrics. He joined Ju
County Foreign Trade Canned Food Factory (莒县外
贸罐头厂) as the factory manager in 1990 where he
was put in-charge of the day-to-day management.
In 1998, he joined Shandong Foodstuffs Import and
Export Company (山东食品进出口公司), a provincial
level state-owned enterprise based in Qingdao as
deputy general manager in-charge of overseeing
and assisting in the management of several state-
owned companies in Shandong Province which were
engaged in the manufacturing of foodstuffs for export
markets, in particular, to Japan.
In 2005, he left Shandong Foodstuffs Import and Export
CompanyandfoundedRizhaoHengbaotogetherwith
Meng Xiangzhen and several other individuals. With
the sales network and contacts, he had accumulated
in the course of his career (in particular those with
major Japanese food companies), he successfully
grew Rizhao Hengbao into a well-established food
export company over a short time span.
YANG CHIN SHEN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Yang Chin Shen, a Malaysian, male, aged 47, was
appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director
on 28 February 2014. He is the Chairman of the Audit
Committee and a member of the Nomination
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk
Management Committee of the Company. He is
a Practicing Member of the Institute of Singapore
Chartered Accountants (ISCA), and also a member
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) and
he holds a Bachelor of Business in Accountancy from
Queensland University of Technology, Australia (with
Distinction).
He has over 20 years of international audit
experience including 10 years with the Big Four firms
in Malaysia,Singapore and USA, and 6 years with
smalland mid-sized firms. He brings along extensive
experiences in servicing both multinationals and local
companies in wide variety of industries such as property
developers, hotels, real estate investment trusts, credit
cards, retail, semiconductor, investment companies,
retail malls, manufacturing, construction, hospitals,
plantations, steel mills, education, statutoryboard,
software, trading, logistics, shipping and leasing.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
5
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
(cont’d)
HO PUI HOLD
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ho Pui Hold, a Malaysian, male, aged 42, was
appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director
on 18 September 2015. He is the Chairman of the
Nomination Committee and Risk Management
Committee. He is also a member of the Audit
Committee and Remuneration Committee of the
Company. He is an Accountant by profession, a fellow
member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (FCCA), United Kingdom, a member
of Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) and a
member of Asean Chartered Professional Accountant
(ACPA).
Mr Ho has over 15 years of professional experience in
auditing, banking and corporate finance. He started
his career in 2004 by joining a Singapore advisory firm
as IPO consultant where he participated in a few
successful listing of companies in Singapore Exchange
Limited. He then joined Ernst & Young as Senior Audit
Associate until 2009 before he left to join AmBank (M)
Berhad – Corporate & Institutional Banking. In this role,
he was responsible in client credit evaluation and
marketing of the Bank’s products mainly in debt capital
market, offshore loan syndication, corporate finance
advisory & treasury products. To further advance his
career, he took up the chief financial officer position in
a foreign company listed on Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad until 2013.
He now sits on the board of Permaju Industries Berhad,
Milux Corporation Berhad,Xidelang Holdings Limited,
and EP Manufacturing Bhd, companies listed on Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
LEW SEH LI
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lew Seh Li, a Malaysian, female, aged 35, was
appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director on
15 October 2021. She is also a member of the Audit
Committee and Nomination Committee.
Ms. Lew is a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (MIA) and fellow member of the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
(FCCA). She graduated from Tunku Abdul Rahman
College, Malaysia majoring in Financial Accounting
cum Association of Chartered Certificate Accountants
(ACCA).
She started her career as a Senior Auditor in S.J Grant
Thornton Malaysia in 2012 and BDO LLP in Singapore.
In 2015, she held the position as an accountant in Far
East Organisation, Singapore. She is now presently
working as a freelance Accountant and consultant.
Note :
Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors hold directorships in any other public companies, have
any family relationship with any director and / or major shareholder of the Company nor has any conflict
of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past 5 years other than
traffic offences, if any and has not been imposed any public sanction or penalty by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
6
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
PROFILES OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
LEE KIM VUN
Lee Kim Vun, a Malaysian, male, aged 45 was appointed as Senior Finance Manager of the Group in 2021.
Mr. Lee is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA) and a fellow member of the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA).
He has about 21 years of combined experience working with international accounting firm and public listed
companies. Throughout his years of work, he has gained wide range of experience in the areas of external
audit, internal audit, group financial reporting, corporate finance, corporate restructuring, budgetary control,
corporate governance and tax compliance.
Mr.Lee does not hold any directorships in any public companies. He has no relationship with any Director and/or
major shareholder(s) of the Company. He does not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has no
conviction of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and has not been imposed
any public sanction or penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 December
2023.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
7
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CHAIRMAN STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that despite facing numerous challenges during the year, HB Global
Limited (“HB” or “the Group”) recorded an overall commendable performance for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“FY2023”).
As the Covid-19 pandemic began to recede, HB faced intensified supply chain disruptions due to rapidly
escalating costs of raw materials and energy shortages, leading to near-record-high commodity prices. These
inflationary pressures have been driven by factors such as increased demand for oil and geopolitical tensions,
significantly impacting our entire value chain from procurement to production and supply chain management.
In response, HB has taken strategic measures to manage these increased costs, including re-evaluating our
sourcing strategies, optimizing production processes, and enhancing operational efficiency. Despite these
challenges, we remain dedicated to delivering exceptional value to our customers while upholding our financial
strength and stability.
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, our risk management systems are crucial for identifying,
monitoring, and mitigating risks that could impact our achievement of short-, medium-, and long-term
objectives. Our governance team, led by HB, focuses on optimally allocating resources and prioritizing initiatives
that enhance our value chain strengths, replicate regional successes, integrate downstream processes, drive
sustainable performance, adopt new technologies, and empower our talented workforce. This proactive
approach in risk management positions us well to navigate through challenges and achieve our strategic goals
in a sustainable and resilient manner.
FY2023 was marked by significant challenges, as the repercussions of COVID-19 and containment measures
continued to pose obstacles. Nevertheless, HB demonstrated remarkable resilience and steadfastness. During
this period, the well-being and safety of our employees were paramount. We facilitated the vaccination of our
workforce, conducted extensive testing as needed, and implemented stringent standard operating procedures
(SOPs) in line with government guidelines to ensure a safe working environment.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
8
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CHAIRMAN STATEMENT
(cont’d)
Stakeholders
This year has been marked by an unprecedented
confluence of global challenges, including the
COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine, inflationary
pressures, energy crises, supply chain disruptions,
and the urgent need to address climate change. To
effectively manage these difficult circumstances, it
is crucial that we come together and leverage the
diverse skills and expertise of individuals and businesses
alike.
Throughout these challenges, our talented staffs has
demonstrated exceptional talent and dedication
in supporting our clients and making positive
contributions to society. I’m incredibly proud of our
people and the range of skills and experiences they
bring to the table each day, which serve as the driving
force behind our continued success. I would like to
extend our deepest gratitude to each and every one
of them for their unwavering commitment, resilience,
and perseverance.
Delivering Sustainable Growth
As part of our commitment to strong governance,
we have implemented a comprehensive framework
of policies and codes, which includes our Code
of Conduct and Business Ethics, Anti-Bribery and
Corruption Policy, Director’s Fit and Proper Policy,
Gift and Entertainment Policy, and Whistleblowing
Policy. These policies and codes were developed in
accordance with the recommendations outlined in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG)
2021. They emphasize the critical importance of
ethical business practices and promote principles such
as transparency, anti-discrimination, and anti-bribery
and anti-corruption across our business operations
and supply chain. Upholding high standards of ethical
conduct is central to our business philosophy, and
we remain fully committed to implementing best
practices that reinforce these principles at every level
of our organization.
The Board understands its fiduciary duty to stakeholders
to promote business prosperity and corporate
accountability. We are committed to continuously
enhance HB’s governance structure with the ultimate
objective of creating and preserving value for our
stakeholders.
HB are keenly aware of our responsibility to minimize
our environmental impact and contribute to
sustainable development. We have made a steadfast
commitment to advancing environmental, social, and
governance (ESG) initiatives over the long term.
We recognize that climate change poses a significant
challenge to the world, and we have taken steps to
decarbonize our business and value chain.We are
equally committed to ethical sourcing and supporting
local farmers and suppliers to reduce our carbon
footprint from transportation. Our sustainability
programs are not merely a responsibility, but a chance
to create value for our customers, employees, and
stakeholders. We believe that the shift toward a
low-carbon economy brings both challenges and
opportunities, and we are committed to doing our
part in forging a sustainable future for all.
Prospect
Amidst the uncertainties that characterize our world,
businesses, communities, and households alike
face challenging decisions. While food remains a
basic human need that must be met, the complex
nature of global supply chains and rising commodity
prices are presenting considerable obstacles for
HB in the upcoming financial year. Such pressures
pose a particular threat in light of the potential for
a recession. As HB remains committed to offering
Malaysians access to nutritious and affordable
sources of protein, the impact of cost pressures will
narrow margins considerably. In addition, the ongoing
conflict between Russia and Ukraine has produced an
inflationary environment that drives logistics, energy,
and fertilizer costs upward, further complicating
matters. Despite these challenges, HB is confident that
our governance, strategies, and policies will guide us
toward positive outcomes.
Our risk management procedures assist us in
identifying, monitoring, and addressing key risks,
enabling us to seize opportunities as they arise. In the
face of adversity, our strategies will guide us forward
as our prospects remain bright. HB will continue to
persevere and adapt, executing our plan with the
support of our hardworking and committed talent
pool, strong leadership, and robust fundamentals.
We remain committed to our values of transparency,
integrity, and accountability, supplementing our
efforts with a focus on sustainability.
Acknowledgements
I wish to extend my sincere gratitude to our esteemed
customers, suppliers, employees, business partners,
and other stakeholders for their unwavering trust and
commitment in supporting our Group through the
various challenges encountered in the past year.
I would also like to express my appreciation to the
Board of Directors for their consistent guidance and
to acknowledge the dedication and hard work of
our management team and employees who are
the backbone of our accomplishments. With the
continued support of all stakeholders, we strive to
improve our efforts towards enhancing the stability,
profitability, and sustainability of our operations and
achieving even greater success for many years to
come.
Mr Chan Kay Ding
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
9
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Overview of Business and Objectives
HB Global Limited (“HBGL”) is principally an investment
holding company and currently the Group has one
active wholly owned subsidiary as below:
100% owned Subsidiary:
(i) Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd. (“SHF”) –
the main operating plant situated in China
Our Group specializes in the processing, packaging,
and production of a wide array of ready-to-serve
foods, frozen vegetables, and other culinary products
through our subsidiaries. Over the years, we have
established ourselves as a leading gourmet convenient
food specialist in China, equipped with advanced
food processing technologies such as cleaning,
slicing/cutting, blanching, boiling, frying, vacuum
frying, steaming, smoking, stewing, and barbequing.
We produce a diverse range of food materials and
quick-frozen products, primarily catering to the needs
of our customers and distributors. Additionally, we
operate as an original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
for third-party brands. Our products are marketed
both under our customers’ brands and our proprietary
brands, including “Geleifu” (Green Food), “Hengbao
Food,” “Qing Long Tan” (Asparagus Tea), and “The
Four Seasons Farm”.
Our product portfolio includes over 1,000 items, which
are exported to more than 20 countries, including
Japan, the USA, Singapore, Australia, and Korea. Our
products are accessible to a variety of users, from
hypermarkets and tourist markets to food stalls and
residential homes.
At the heart of our operations is the principle of
providing high-quality, affordable food products
with unique flavors. Our commitment to technical
excellence and stringent quality control standards
has solidified our reputation as a premier food
manufacturer. We maintain a comprehensive quality
monitoring and control system, and our facilities are
certified with international standards such as ISO 9001,
ISO 22000, HACCP, FDA, and BRC.
The Group believes that maintaining high quality is
crucial for attracting and retaining customers. To
support this belief, we are dedicated to enhancing
the quality of our products, services, and processes,
adopting industry best practices, and ensuring
customer satisfaction. Recognizing that customer
preferences evolve, we continuously strive to monitor
and refine our offerings to meet their changing needs.
By prioritizing quality, the Group aims to fortify its
market position and cultivate enduring relationships
with its customers.
Operation Overview
HBGL Group’s revenue had increased by RMB3.9
million or approximately 4.9% from RMB76.1 million in
financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FYE2022”) to
RMB80.0 million in financial year ended 31 December
2023 (“FYE2023”). The increase was mainly due to
increase in sales of China subsidiary as during FYE2023,
there was recovery from disruption in the production
and supply chain due to lockdown in certain areas of
China which have been affected with rising Covid 19
cases. The Group had a decrease in net loss before
taxation to RMB47.9 million in FYE2023 as compared to
RMB171.0 million in FYE2022.
Dear Valued Shareholders,
The following MD&A of the operating
performance and financial condition
of the Group for the twelve (12) months
ended 31 December 2023 should be
read in conjunction with the Audited
FinancialStatementfortheyearended
31 December 2023 and related notes
thereto. The information presented
in the MD&A, including information
relating to comparative year in 2022,
is presented in accordance with
the Singapore Financial Reporting
Standards (International) [SFRS(I)s],
unless otherwise stated.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
10
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
In order to maintain competitiveness in the current
market conditions, it is essential for the Group to
focus on improving its production planning and
implementing rigorous quality control measures on
its manufactured products. The Group is continuously
monitoring and enhancing its production lines to
ensure optimal efficiency.
HBGL expenses are classified into five main
components: costs of sales, selling and distribution
expenses, administrative expenses, other expenses,
and finance costs. In the year under review, costs of
sales constituted the largest portion of the Group’s
expenditure, accounting for 54.9% of total expenses.
Given the potential risks posed by currency fluctuations
and changing consumer behavior, HBGL has put in
place effective contingency plans to mitigate such
risks. To minimize costs, management has implemented
a tight control operating model, while also leveraging
technology to enhance operational efficiency.
Financial Review
In the FYE2023, the Group’s revenue slightly increase
by RMB 3.9 million or approximately 4.9% compared
to the previous financial year, mainly attributable to
increase sales by the China subsidiary. This shows the
recovery from disruptions in the production and supply
chain caused by lockdowns in certain areas of China
that were affected by the rising number of Covid-19
cases. In addition, other income in FYE 2023 amounted
to RMB7.9 million, which was considerably lower than
the RMB14.1 million recorded in FYE 2022.
Furthermore, the Group’s other operating expenses
decreased from RMB137.3 million to RMB28.5 million,
mainly due to higher impairment loss provided on
property, plant and equipment and write off of
intangible assets and prepayments of land use rights
in FYE 2022. As a result, the Group incurred a net
loss before taxation of RMB45.8 million in FYE 2023
compared to RMB167.7 million in FYE 2022, mainly due
to significantly lower other operating expenses in FYE
2023.
Financial Position
As of December 31, 2023, the Company’s net assets
amounted to approximately RMB162.4 million. The
decrease was mainly due to total comprehensive
loss incurred amounted to RMB47.9 million in FYE 2023.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
decreased by about RMB25.5 million and RMB7.7
million mainly due to impairment loss provided,
depreciation and amortization in FYE 2023. Decrease
in trade and other receivables from RMB22.3 million
to RMB13.4 million was mainly due to better average
collection period from trade receivables.
To preserve its financial stability and enhance
competitiveness, the Group is committed to
implementing robust cash flow management and
improving revenue generation strategies to ensure a
positive cash balance. Additionally, a key focus will
be placed on reducing costs through several strategic
initiatives. These include optimizing operational
efficiency, increasing production capacity, and
streamlining supply chain management processes.
By adopting these measures, the Group will be able
to allocate resources more effectively, thereby
maintaining financial health amidst the challenging
market conditions. These strategies are critical to our
ongoing efforts to ensure sustainable growth and
continued success in the industry.
Business Strategics and Risk Factors
The Research and Development division of our
company is dedicated to enhancing product quality
to meet growing consumer demands and maintain
market competitiveness. Our focus centers on
innovation and creativity to develop healthier options
that resonate with consumer preferences, all while
upholding the highest standards of quality.
In addition to these efforts, we are actively expanding
our customer base through exploring new domestic
and international markets, launching innovative
products, and continuously improving product quality
and variety. To align with shifts in the retail landscape,
significant investments have been made in online
shopping initiatives to bolster sales.
Further strategic investments have been directed
towards upgrading our factories and acquiring
advanced machinery to boost production efficiency,
reduce operational costs, and enhance profitability.
These investments ensure our adherence to the latest
technological advancements in the industry, helping
us maintain a competitive edge.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
11
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Given our role in the food industry, we are acutely
aware of the risks associated with product quality and
safety. To mitigate these risks, we have implemented
rigorous policies and procedures for processing, plant
and machinery sanitation, and employee hygiene.
Our strict adherence to quality systems and product
traceability protocols underscores our commitment
to preventing contamination and ensuring product
safety.
Acknowledging various business risks such as labour
shortages, fluctuations in raw material prices, logistics
costs, and national policies, our management team
has taken comprehensive measures to mitigate
these issues. These include forming partnerships with
multiple suppliers, investing in advanced machinery
and automation, and optimizing our logistics
operations through technology solutions and strategic
negotiations.
To address the risk of changing national policies, we
actively engage with government officials, expand
operations internationally, and ensure compliance
with all regulations. These proactive steps help us
minimize exposure to policy shifts, maintaining our
compliance and adapting to changes effectively.
In conclusion, by actively managing these risks and
continually investing in both product and operational
advancements, our company strives to sustain its
position as a reliable and responsible manufacturer in
the food industry, ensuring long-term profitability and
success.
Declaration of Dividends
With the current financial position and further unknown
challenges ahead, in view of financial prudence, no
dividend is to be declared.
Business Prospect
The Group acknowledges that 2024 will be marked by
persistent challenges and uncertainties, notably the
ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, rising energy costs,
supply chain disruptions, and the effects of climate
change. Among these issues, the priority will be to
effectively manage escalating materials costs in the
long term.
Despite these obstacles, there is optimism regarding
the potential of the food industry. As global trade
and economic conditions show signs of recovery,
and restrictions ease, we have observed an increase
in consumption. Demand is anticipated to further
strengthen, leading to stabilization in trading volume
and margins.
Looking ahead, the Group is committed to exploring
new markets and opportunities to enhance revenue
streams and product competitiveness. While
uncertainties persist, our proactive approach to
adapting to changes in the business landscape
positions us positively for sustained growth. We remain
hopeful and committed to our strategic goals.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
12
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
2
ABOUT THE COMPANY
HB Global Limited ("HBGL" or "the Group") is a reputable investment option renowned for its focus on
processing, packaging, and manufacturing a diverse range of food products, all while upholding a
dedication to sustainability. Our unwavering commitment to upholding the highest standards in product
quality and service excellence persists, as our cohesive team collaborates closely to ensure customer
satisfaction while remaining faithful to our principles of environmental stewardship.
Our Core Businesses
The Group's core operations centre on the processing, packaging, and manufacturing of a diverse
range of ready-to-serve foods, frozen vegetables, and various food items through its subsidiary entities.
Over time, the Group has cemented its position as a leading one-stop destination for gourmet
convenience foods in China. By harnessing advanced food processing capabilities that include cleaning,
slicing/cutting, blanching, boiling, frying, vacuum frying, steaming, smoking, stewing, and barbecuing,
we ensure the highest quality in our offerings. Our company specialises in producing a wide array of
food materials and quick-frozen products, primarily meeting the needs of our customers and distributors.
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
At HBGL, our resolve is to shape a brighter tomorrow through ethical business practices, unwavering
focus on our objectives, and streamlined operational efficiency. This commitment embodies our
dedication to making a constructive impact on the local economy, society, environment, and governance.
Through concerted efforts and initiatives within our organisation, we strive to drive positive change and
contribute meaningfully to the betterment of our communities and the world at large.
Scope and Basis of Scope
The reporting period corresponds with our fiscal year spanning from 1 January to 31 December 2023.
This Statement comprehensively addresses the Group's sustainability performance and highlights the
progress of our business operations in Malaysia.
Details of the Group’s subsidiaries are shown in the table below.
Name of Company Principal Activities
Country of
Incorporation/Operation
Held by the Group
Shandong Hengbao
Foodstuff Co., Ltd.
Processing, packaging and producing
various types of foods
People’s Republic of
China
Welltech Utopia Sdn.
Bhd.
Producing, supplying and manufacturing
food supplement product
Malaysia
Biztech Utopia Sdn.
Bhd.
Business management consultancy services
for supply chain management
SLH Global Sdn. Bhd. Business management consultancy and
investment
HB Global Capital Sdn.
Bhd.
Investment holding
SLH Group Capital
Sdn. Bhd.
Business management consultancy and
investment advisory services
SLH Universe Sdn.
Bhd.
Business management consultancy and
investment advisory services
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
13
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
3
HB Infrastructures &
Technologies Sdn.
Bhd.
Telecommunication services
Held by Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd.
Juxian Hengbao
Farming Co., Ltd.
Rearing and trading of livestock, temporarily
ceased operation
People’s Republic of
China
Held by SLH Global Sdn. Bhd.
SLH Infra Sdn. Bhd. Investment holding
Malaysia
Alphaverse Sdn. Bhd. Business management consultancy
Held by SLH Infra Sdn. Bhd.
Forward Resources
and construction Sdn.
Bhd.
Civil, mechanical and electrical engineering
service provider for telecommunication
industry
Malaysia
Reporting Framework and Standards
This report is prepared in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide 3rd Edition
and is adopted in line with the IFRS Foundations - International Integrated Reporting Framework and
Integrated Thinking Principles. The Company also decided to adopt the TCFD recommendations and
Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) as part of the report as well.
Feedback
We welcome and encourage our stakeholders to provide feedback pertaining to this Statement and the
issues covered to our Sustainability Committee at rizhaohengbao@126.com.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
14
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
4
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Sustainability Governance
HBGL places significant emphasis on sustainability within our Group. Consequently, we have
meticulously established a systematic and comprehensive governance framework to effectively achieve
all our sustainability objectives and targets. Our governance structure adopts a two-tier approach,
wherein the Executive Director, supported by the finance department, directly reports to the Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors assumes leadership in shaping our sustainability journey and
supervising its implementation throughout the Group.
To complement the Board's efforts, we have instituted various committees, including the Audit
Committee, Risk Management Committee, Nomination Committee, and Remuneration Committee.
These committees contribute significantly to monitoring performance and risk management within the
organisation.
In addition to these committees, we have formed a specialised Sustainability Committee, which serves
as an integral component of our governance framework. This committee is entrusted with the pivotal
responsibility of formulating and executing the Group's sustainability strategy, ensuring alignment with
our overarching goals and values.
Our commitment to establishing a resilient governance framework is evident in the defined roles and
responsibilities outlined in the table below.
Board of Directors
Coordinate daily activities and drive the implementation of Group-wide sustainability initiatives.
Integrate sustainability across the entire value chain, from innovation to retail, ensuring holistic
sustainability practices throughout all business operations.
Executive Director (Supported by the Finance Department)
Produce detailed reports on sustainability progress for the Board of Directors, offering deep insights
and analysis. Offer strategic recommendations on sustainability strategy and initiatives aligned with
the Group's objectives and values. Ensure alignment with long-term sustainability goals and drive
continuous improvement.
Audit Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Ensures the
accuracy and
integrity of the
Group's financial
reporting,
meticulously
adhering to all legal
and regulatory
standards to uphold
transparency and
trust among
stakeholders.
Ensures the
effectiveness of the
Group's enterprise-
wide risk
management and
internal control
framework through
thorough
assessment and
continuous
monitoring.
Ensures the
establishment of a
well-structured and
proficient leadership
team, advocating for
diversity and
nurturing continuous
professional
development within
the organisation.
Ensures the
implementation of a
fair and effective
remuneration
structure that aligns
with the company's
strategic objectives
and human resources
policies, promoting
motivation and
retention of talent.
Sustainability Committee
Lead the development of sustainability strategies, assess risks, evaluate performance, and monitor
policy implementation to drive positive environmental and social impact while enhancing
organisational sustainability.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
15
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
5
Furthermore, our Sustainability Committee comprises individuals from various departments. We firmly
believe that by involving different departments, we can harness diverse perspectives to develop more
robust sustainability strategies. This approach enables us to consider a wide range of viewpoints and
expertise, leading to more comprehensive and effective sustainability initiatives.
Stakeholder Engagement
As HBGL positions itself as a sustainable business group, we recognise the potential impact of our
operations on various stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, investors, government
agencies, and local communities. Understanding their perspectives is vital for comprehending our
activities, identifying areas for improvement, and discovering potential opportunities.
To underscore our commitment to nurturing positive relationships with stakeholders and fostering
sustainable business practices, we prioritise establishing open communication channels. This is
achieved through regular engagements utilising both formal and informal approaches. These
interactions are crucial for gathering feedback and effectively addressing the needs and concerns of
our stakeholders.
Outlined below are the key stakeholders of the Group, along with the different engagement methods
and channels employed:
Stakeholder Areas of Concern/
Interest
Engagement Approach Our Responses
Customers
(End users)
• Product quality, safety
and compliance
• Customer service and
experience
• Efficient complaints
resolution
• Best practices in
product pricing
Ongoing/Daily
• Prompt after sales
service
• Prompt response to
calls
Ad hoc/As needed
• Pricing product to
commensurate with
product quality
• Adhere to quality
standards (i.e. ISO
9001 Quality
Management Systems,
ISO 22000 Food Safety
Management System,
etc.)
Customers
(Dealers)
• Efficient complaints
resolution
• Customer-Company
relationship
management
• Timely product delivery
Ongoing/Daily
• Daily update of delivery
details for outstation
customers to sales
personnel
Monthly
• Regular client meetings
through sales team
• Feedback channel
through sales team
• Ensure our dealers
have direct access to
our logistic team during
the delivery process to
ensure prompt delivery
• Ensure good
relationship is fostered
between the customer
and the Group
Sustainability
Committee
Finance Production
Sales and
Marketing
Purchasing
Research and
Development
Quality
Control
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
16
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
6
Stakeholder Areas of Concern/
Interest
Engagement Approach Our Responses
Annually
• Community and
networking events
Employees • Health and safety
• Welfare and
remuneration
• Workplace diversity
• Training and career
development
• Value equal
opportunities
Ongoing/Daily
• Training programmes
Ad hoc/As needed
• Management and staff
meeting
Annually
• Performance appraisal
• Annual event
• Encourage transparent
communication with
employees
• Ensure equal
employment
opportunities for all
individuals without
discrimination
• Provide reasonable
benefits and
remuneration package
Suppliers • Transparent
procurement practices
• Payment schedule
• Anti-bribery
• Timely delivery of
products
• Pricing of services
Ad hoc/As needed
• Contract negotiation
• Vendor registration
• Timely delivery
• Payment to supplier
Annually
• Evaluation on
performance
• Anti-bribery commitment
• Prioritise the
establishment of
transparent
procurement processes
• Require suppliers to
undergo a Due
Diligence procedure
Investors • Financial performance
• Business strategy
• Shareholder value
• Corporate governance
• Corporate
developments
• Sustainable and stable
distribution
Ongoing/Daily
• Corporate website
Ad hoc/As needed
• Company
announcements
• Investor relations
activities
Quarterly
• Quarterly interim
financial reports
Annually
• Annual report
• Annual general meeting
• Provide timely updates
on the Group's strategy
and financial
performance through
investor briefings and
announcements
• Uphold good
governance practices
across the Group, and
supply chain
Government
Agencies
• Governance
compliance
• Environment
management and
compliance
• Fair labour practices
• Policy matters (public,
health safety)
Ad hoc/As needed
• Direct meetings
Annually
• Annual report
• Public announcement
• Inspection/audit by local
authority
• General meeting
between management
and regulators
• Full compliance with
regulatory requirements
• Adoption of practices
outlined in the
Malaysian Code on
Corporate Governance
(“MCCG”)
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
17
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
7
Stakeholder Areas of Concern/
Interest
Engagement Approach Our Responses
Local
Communities
• Impact of business
operation
• Social issue
• Transparency and
quality products and
services
Ongoing/Daily
• Customer relationship &
engagement
Annually
• Community
programmes
• Investing in welfare to
enhance community
well-being
Materiality Matrix
Since 2021, we have been conducting materiality assessments to identify sustainability issues of
significant importance to our business and stakeholders. HBGL acknowledges that these material
issues can significantly impact our ability to create enduring value for stakeholders, whether directly or
indirectly. To underscore our commitment to sustainable practices, we intend to reevaluate these
material impacts. This initiative is aimed at identifying the most impactful sustainability developments
relevant to both our business and stakeholders. It encompasses assessing industry dynamics, progress,
and both global and local sustainability challenges.
Outlined below are the material topics identified in 2023:
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120%
Level of Stakeholder Concerns
Impact on Business Operations
Materiality Matrix
S3
G2
G3
S2
S5
G1
E1
S4
S1
F1
S6
S7
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
18
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
8
Material Sustainability Matter Relevant Stakeholders
F1 – Financial/Economic Performance Investors and Customers
E1 – Climate Change Employees, Regulatory Agencies and Local
Communities
S1 – Customer Experience Investors and Customers
S2 – Brand Reputation Investors, Suppliers/Contractors/Vendors,
Customers, and Local Communities
S3 – Cybersecurity and Data Protection Employees and Customers
S4 – Labour Standards and Human Right Employees and Regulatory Agencies
S5 – Occupational Health and Safety Employees and Regulatory Agencies
S6 – Training and Development Employees and Regulatory Agencies
S7 – Social Contribution Investors and Public
G1 – Business Ethics and Compliance Regulatory Agencies and Local Communities
G2 – Governing Purpose Regulatory Agencies and Local Communities
G3 – Risk Management Regulatory Agencies and Local Communities
The table below provides a detailed analysis of the materiality level of sustainability matters:
High Priority Materiality
F1 – Financial/Economic
Performance
HBGL considers these significant sustainability issues crucial
for ensuring compliance and advancing sustainability initiatives,
ultimately delivering lasting value to stakeholders. We
understand that customer experience is our primary concern
and recognise its potential impact on our brand reputation.
Therefore, we are firmly dedicated to prioritising these critical
sustainability issues to ensure the smooth functioning of our
operations and the enhancement of stakeholder value.
Furthermore, as an ethical enterprise, obtaining proper licensing
and promoting good governance are pivotal elements of our
business practices. Our overarching purpose includes:
• Board Charter and Terms of Reference
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management
• Anti Money Laundering
• Conflict of Interest
• Executive Pay
S1 – Customer Experience
S2 – Brand Reputation
S4 – Labour Standards and
Human Right
G1 – Business Ethics and
Compliance
G2 – Governing Purpose
G3 – Risk Management
Medium Priority Materiality
E1 – Climate Change Even though these material sustainability issues may presently
be categorised as medium in terms of materiality, they
nevertheless hold substantial importance for the Group. We
firmly believe that by prioritising each of these sustainability
concerns, we can positively influence and enhance the overall
performance of the organisation.
S3 – Cybersecurity and Data
Protection
S5 – Occupational Health and
Safety
S6 – Training and Development
S7 – Social Contribution
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
19
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
9
Sustainability Framework
HBGL places a strong emphasis on maintaining a balanced approach that encompasses economic,
environmental, and social responsibilities, while sincerely prioritising the well-being of our stakeholders
for a brighter future. To adapt to the rapidly changing business landscape, we have embraced the
International Integrated Reporting Framework and Integrated Thinking Principles established by the
IFRS Foundation. Through the utilisation of the Six Capitals model, we effectively evaluate and derive
financial insights from our sustainability performance. This model enables us to consistently create
value for our business and stakeholders, reinforcing our sustainability strategy, policies, and practices,
and aligning with global standards such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs"). The Six
Capitals represent the essential sources of value crucial for the Group's value creation, defined as
follows:
Capitals Aspects Main Focus Areas
Financial
Funds available to firm from operations and financing
Financial Highlight
Resources to support the Group’s operation and
implement other Capitals
• Economic Performance
Manufactured
Manufactured physical objects used in value creation
Marketplace
Implementing sustainability through product quality
and compliance
• Cybersecurity and Data
Protection
• Sustainable Supply
Chain Management
• Sustainable Operation
Management
• Product Quality and
Compliance
Governance
Governance, internal control system and procedures
Governance
Board engagement on strategy, internal control to
enhance the sustainability initiative
• Anti-corruption
Human
Skills, motivation, alignment with organisational goals
Workplace
Creating a safe and supportive working environment,
training, and self-development
• Health and Safety
• Employee Management
• Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion
Social
Relations with key institutions, stakeholder groups,
shared norms and values, trust and confidence, and
its social license to operate
Community
Contributing to local community development
• Contributing to Local
Communities/CSR
• Customer Satisfaction
and Service
Natural
Renewable and non-renewable natural elements, and
the eco-system, used as inputs by the firm now or in
the past or future, and impact of firm on them
Environment
Improving our environment by utilising greener
alternatives
• Climate Change
(Energy Management
and Emissions)
• Waste Management
• Water Management
1The Integrated Reporting Framework and Integrated Thinking Principles are maintained under the auspices of the IFRS
Foundation, a global not-for-profit, public interest organisation established to develop high-quality, understandable, enforceable
and globally accepted accounting and sustainability disclosure standards. (https://integratedreporting.ifrs.org/the-iirc-2/)
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
20
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
10
Management Approach for Material Matters
Economic
Resources to support the Group’s operation and implement other Capitals
Economic Performance
At HBGL, our primary objective is to ensure long-term resilience through proficient management of our
assets and equitable distribution of generated wealth among stakeholders. We recognise that our
financial performance forms the cornerstone for achieving enduring value and advancing sustainability
goals across the Group. Committed to fostering economic development and providing exceptional
employment opportunities, we prioritise collaboration within local communities.
Our approach and performance
In FY 2023, the Group experienced a slight increase in economic value generated compared to FY
2022, accompanied by a significant decrease in operating expenses from RMB 169.5 million to RMB
52.3 million, marking a reduction of RMB 117.2 million. FY 2023 posed notable challenges driven by
inflationary pressures, particularly impacting input costs such as raw materials, transportation, labour,
and overhead. Additionally, the current upcycles in interest rates and a weakened macroeconomic
outlook further compounded these challenges. These factors may potentially undermine consumer
spending ability, leading to a possible decrease in demand for ready-to-eat and frozen food products in
the future.
Nevertheless, the Group remains steadfast in its commitment to maintaining and enhancing economic
performance. Through diligent monitoring of financial metrics and the implementation of strategic
business initiatives, we continually strive to create enduring value for our stakeholders. These outcomes
underscore our dedication to delivering value while concurrently maintaining a resilient financial position
and pursuing opportunities for sustainable growth.
Below are the financial results of HBGL:
2021
RMB’000
2022
RMB’000
2023
RMB’000
Economic value generated (e.g., revenue and other
operating/comprehensive income)
205,592 90,215 90,229
Economic value distributed:
• Cost of sales 110,171 85,498 80,240
• Operating expenses (e.g., selling and distribution
expenses, administrative expenses)
130,331 169,495 52,278
• Finance costs 3,627 2,920 1,711
• Payment to government (e.g., tax) 1 - -
• Other comprehensive loss 375 3,302 -
Economic value retained -38,913 -171,000 -44,000
Related UNSDGs:
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
21
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
11
Marketplace
Implementing sustainability through product quality and compliance
Cybersecurity and Data Protection
HBGL recognises the opportunities and risks associated with digital technologies, particularly in light of
remote work, e-commerce, and automation trends. With the increasing adoption of digital infrastructure,
cybersecurity vulnerabilities are amplified. Therefore, HBGL prioritises protecting customer data from
cyber threats by implementing robust security measures to mitigate risks and maintain stakeholder trust.
Our approach and performance
Despite the absence of significant threats to operations from cybersecurity risks, the Group maintains
vigilance and proactivity in addressing them. Implemented as a protective measure, the company
adheres to a Personal Data Protection Act (“PDPA”) policy compliant with PDPA 2010 provisions. While
efforts may seem modest, HBGL is fully committed to fulfilling all regulatory obligations.
Furthermore, as part of our dedication to ensuring network security, the company adopts the CIA triad—
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability. These principles serve as the foundation of information
security practices, guiding the design, implementation, and evaluation of security controls in network
environments. By comprehensively addressing these principles, we can safeguard our network
infrastructure, data, and resources against diverse security threats and risks.
As of 31 December 2023, no substantiated complaints regarding breaches in customer privacy or data
loss have been reported.
2021 2022 2023
Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches in
customer privacy or data loss
0 0 0
Related UNSDGs:
Confidentiality
•Confidentiality ensures that sensitive information is only accessible to authorised users,
processes, or systems. It aims to prevent unauthorised disclosure or exposure of data to
unauthorised individuals or entities.
Integrity
•Integrity ensures that data remains accurate, complete, and trustworthy throughout its lifecycle. It
guards against unauthorised modification, alteration, or destruction of data, whether accidental or
intentional.
Availability
•Availability ensures that information and resources are accessible and usable when needed by
authorised users. It involves ensuring that network services, applications, and data are reliably
accessible and performant, even in the face of disruptions or attacks.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
22
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
12
Sustainable Supply Chain Management
At HBGL, we prioritise the establishment of sustainable, ethical, and equitable supply chains, achieved
through collaborative efforts with suppliers, spanning from smallholder farmers to large enterprises. Our
commitment extends to fostering responsible procurement practices and enhancing the resilience of
our supply chain by integrating sustainability considerations into our procurement processes. We aim
to prioritise sourcing from local suppliers and actively seek opportunities to enhance their livelihoods
through business collaborations. Our steadfast belief in supporting local enterprises aligns with our
commitment to fostering economic development within the communities where we operate.
Our approach and performance
To maintain the high-quality standards in our products and services, HB Global collaborates exclusively
with approved and reputable suppliers. Prospective suppliers undergo a rigorous due diligence process,
including submission of their business and production licenses, along with product test reports. These
documents are meticulously assessed by our quality inspection department before any collaboration is
confirmed.
Throughout the years, we have steadfastly upheld this stringent due diligence process, ensuring a
sustainable and dependable supply chain. Looking ahead, the Group remains steadfast in evaluating
all new suppliers against our sustainability criteria.
HB Global is also committed to bolstering local businesses and fortifying supply chain resilience. While
prioritising quality, we predominantly engage with local suppliers to ensure prompt delivery, mitigate
freight costs, and enhance cost-effectiveness. Our relationships with suppliers are nurtured through
transparent communication, regular site visits, annual performance evaluations, and supplier
satisfaction surveys. Concurrently, we guarantee integrity and confidentiality by maintaining strict
confidentiality regarding suppliers’ technology and performance.
We take pride in achieving a growing percentage of spending on local suppliers over the years,
underscoring our dedication to supporting local enterprises. This commitment will persist as we strive
to generate more value for local businesses and the community.
2021 2022 2023
Proportion of spending on local suppliers (%) 96 97 98
HB Global firmly believes that establishing fair and transparent supply chains is not only ethically
responsible but also strategically imperative for mitigating risks within our supply networks. By upholding
ethical and transparent practices, we aim to safeguard the security and integrity of our products, thereby
fostering long-term value for all stakeholders involved.
Related UNSDGs:
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
23
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
13
Sustainable Operation Management
HBGL maintains an unwavering focus on excellent quality control and sustainable operational
management, which are paramount priorities for the company. To this end, we regularly assess our
operational processes to ensure they align with current standards and contribute to a sustainable future.
Acknowledging the urgency of addressing climate change, our commitment extends to environmental
protection, regulatory compliance, and continuous research aimed at enhancing sustainability
strategies. We firmly believe that adopting proactive measures is essential for both adapting to and
mitigating potential future risks.
Our approach and performance
In our pursuit of a net-zero future, the Group is deeply committed to reducing carbon emissions through
a comprehensive approach. We are actively working to enhance energy efficiency, integrate renewable
energy sources, and adopt cost-effective strategies for long-term sustainability. Furthermore, we
envision transitioning towards a circular economy model, wherein resources are utilised, reused,
recycled, and regenerated to minimise waste and maximise resource efficiency.
Our sustainable operations strategy is anchored on three fundamental pillars: sustainable resource
procurement, responsible process management, and maintaining product quality while minimising
environmental and community impacts. We are resolute in aligning our practices with these objectives,
continuously monitoring and reporting our progress to ensure accountability.
Moreover, we adhere strictly to relevant laws and regulations, including:
By prioritising sustainability in our operations, we strive to make a positive contribution to the
environment and society, while also safeguarding our long-term business interests. This commitment
underscores our dedication to shaping a better future for all stakeholders, both present and future
generations alike.
Related UNSDGs:
Product Quality and Compliance
The Group places significant emphasis on maintaining high standards of product quality, recognising
that access to safe and nutritious food is vital for sustaining life and promoting good health. Unsafe food,
which may contain harmful bacteria, viruses, parasites, or chemical substances, can lead to over 200
different diseases, ranging from diarrhoea to cancers, according to the World Health Organisation.
Globally, an estimated 600 million people, almost 1 in 10, fall ill each year after consuming contaminated
food, resulting in approximately 420,000 deaths and the loss of 33 million healthy life years. In light of
these statistics, HBGL is dedicated to upholding and delivering exceptional standards of product quality
as a core component of its commitment to value creation and sustainable business growth.
Environmental
Protection Law
Air Pollution
Prevention and
Control Law
Water Pollution
Prevention and
Control Law
Solid Waste
Environmental
Prevention and
Control Law
Acoustic Noise
Environmental
Prevention and
Control Law
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
24
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
14
Our approach and performance
To ensure high standards of product quality, HBGL implements rigorous quality management
procedures throughout its operations. Upon receipt at our facilities, products undergo thorough
inspections conducted by our Quality Control team, adhering to established Standard Operating
Procedures. Our subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd, which specialises in processing,
packaging, and producing ready-to-serve foods and frozen vegetables, strictly follows prescribed work
instructions and Standard Operating Procedures to uphold quality standards.
At HBGL, we recognise our responsibility as a reliable and trustworthy organisation, thus prioritising
top-notch quality across all facets of our operations. We are committed to compliance with relevant
legislations and directives, underscoring our dedication to responsible food manufacturing.
Our commitment to quality control is evidenced by the attainment of various certifications and awards,
including:
These certifications not only affirm our unwavering commitment to stringent quality standards but also
underscore our dedication to being a safe and dependable organisation, focused on delivering
exceptional products and services to our esteemed customers.
By adhering to these robust quality control measures and continually striving for excellence, HBGL aims
to strengthen its reputation as an industry leader in delivering superior quality food products.
Governance
Board engagement on strategy, internal control to enhance the sustainability initiative
ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System
ISO 22000:2018 Food Safety Management System
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points ("HACCP")
BRCGS Food Safety Global Standard
China Business Federation Science and Technology Award (Special Prize)
Increased Corporate Value
Achieve Business Goals
Risk Management and Strategies
Company Policy
Management Philosophy
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
25
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
15
Anti-corruption
HBGL is strongly dedicated to upholding exceptional corporate governance principles, maintaining strict
adherence to ethical business practices and compliance standards throughout the organisation. The
Board recognises the crucial importance of having a robust risk management framework and a
comprehensive internal control system in fostering a culture of solid corporate governance in line with
the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance ("MCCG") 2021. By transparently disclosing relevant
sustainability-related information, our goal is to increase the transparency of our management
processes, thereby building greater confidence and trust among our esteemed customers, stakeholders,
and the wider community.
Our approach and performance
The Group maintains an unwavering dedication to conducting business with the highest level of integrity,
guided by our comprehensive Code of Conduct ("CoC"), which outlines fundamental principles and
guidelines for all employees. As part of this commitment, we uphold a zero-tolerance stance towards
fraud, bribery, corruption, money laundering, and insider trading. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption
("ABC") Policy, alongside our Whistleblowing Policy, are integral tools in promoting transparency and
fostering a governance-friendly environment. These policies are readily accessible on our website,
ensuring accessibility for all stakeholders.
A robust Whistleblowing Policy is also in place to facilitate the reporting of concerns, including clear
information on reporting channels. We encourage all employees to raise any concerns directly with the
designated officer, who will then escalate the matter to the Audit Committee Chairman and Chairman
of the Board. Additionally, for external stakeholders, a Whistleblowing Report Form is available for
submission to the Group’s Manager in cases of suspected unethical behaviour. These procedures are
conducted with the utmost assurance of strict confidentiality for the reporter.
As of 31 December 2023, we have recorded zero incidents of corruption across the Group's business
operations.
2021 2022 2023
Number of confirmed corruption incidents 0 0 0
Furthermore, the Group consistently communicates and provides training for employees on anti-
corruption and bribery prevention. The training programme is structured into three segments:
Through these training initiatives, the Group aims to equip employees with the necessary knowledge
and tools to identify, prevent, and report instances of corruption and bribery in their professional
endeavours.
•This covers foundational knowledge regarding corruption
prevention.
Anti-corruption Training
•This section emphasises the significance of such training in
fostering a culture of integrity within the organisation.
The Importance of Anti-
Corruption Training
•This segment delves into the specific policies and procedures
outlined by the company to combat corruption effectively.
Company Anti-Corruption
Policy
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
26
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
16
The table below provides details on the completion rate of trained employees at HBGL.
Employee Category
Completion Rate (%)
2021 2022 2023
Management 100 100 100
Executive 100 100 100
Non-executive/Technical Staff 80 80 80
General Workers 60 60 60
In addition to the initiatives mentioned, we remain vigilant and steadfast in our dedication to identifying
any unethical or corruption-related cases within the organisation. However, we recognise the need to
further enhance our practices in assessing corruption-related risks in the future. We view this as a vital
step in building sustainable operational management processes.
2021 2022 2023
Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related
risks (%)
1 1 0.8
By continuously improving our methods for identifying and mitigating corruption risks, we aim to
strengthen our commitment to ethical conduct and integrity throughout the organisation. This proactive
approach not only helps safeguard against potential instances of corruption but also contributes to the
overall sustainability and longevity of our business operations.
Related UNSDGs:
Workplace
Creating a safe and supportive working environment, training, and self-development
Health and Safety
The Group places the utmost importance on the health and safety of our employees. We are firmly
dedicated to nurturing a work environment that is healthy, secure, and conducive to the well-being of
our workforce. Our primary goal is to prevent injuries and illnesses among our employees,
demonstrating our unwavering commitment to their well-being. By prioritising the health and safety of
our employees, we directly contribute to increased efficiency and productivity across our organisation.
This holistic approach to employee well-being underscores our commitment to creating a workplace
where our employees can thrive and excel.
Our approach and performance
At HBGL, we have established a dedicated Safety Committee tasked with overseeing and implementing
robust safety measures across our organisation. These committee members, carefully selected and
collaborating, spearhead safety initiatives to ensure a secure working environment for all employees
within the Group.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
27
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
17
By prioritising safety, our employees can focus on productivity without concerns for their well-being at
work. Our proactive approach to occupational health and safety not only positions us as a practical and
progressive workplace but also facilitates the establishment of operations in new jurisdictions.
We strive to set an example of best practices in health and safety within our industry, surpassing
regulatory requirements. Our comprehensive Safety and Health Policy outlines safety standards for
daily operations, distributed to all employees, with new hires informed during the Occupational Safety
and Health (“OSH”) induction programme.
To foster a culture of safety awareness and adherence, we have implemented safety measures at the
workplace, including safety signs and regulations. Additionally, we organise comprehensive health and
safety training sessions for employees. In fiscal year 2023, 398 participants underwent these sessions,
reflecting our steadfast commitment to workforce well-being.
2021 2022 2023
Number of employees trained on health and safety standards 269 306 398
Our paramount objective is ensuring every employee returns home safely each workday, without injury.
Over the past three years, we have maintained zero reported injury cases, a testament to our dedication
to prioritising workforce well-being and fostering a safe working environment.
2021 2022 2023
Total hours worked 1,050,000 1,120,000 1,190,000
Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Number of lost time injuries 0 0 0
Lost time incident rate 0 0 0
Looking ahead, we are committed to sustaining and enhancing our occupational health and safety
performance. By refining safety protocols, investing in training, and nurturing a safety-first culture, we
aim to provide utmost protection for our employees, enabling them to perform their duties confidently
and securely.
Related UNSDGs:
Employee Management
At our Group, we hold our employees in high regard, recognising them as integral to our organisation's
success. Prioritising their well-being and satisfaction is central to our management strategy. This
dedication is evident in our efforts to attract, nurture, and retain top-tier talent within a supportive and
nurturing work environment. We invest significantly in comprehensive development programmes to
ensure our employees remain competitive, forward-thinking, and equipped for the future. Our approach
acknowledges that a motivated and skilled workforce is essential for fostering innovation, achieving
operational excellence, and sustaining long-term growth. By promoting employee well-being and
professional growth, we cultivate an engaged and high-performing team that consistently delivers
exceptional value to our stakeholders.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
28
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
18
Our approach and performance
Our Human Resources department is dedicated to three critical aspects of employee management:
Training and Development, Remuneration Packages and Performance Management, and Employee
Engagement and Initiatives. We firmly believe that these pillars are essential for enhancing employee
productivity and fostering ongoing performance improvement in the workplace.
• Training and Development
HBGL is committed to prioritising its human capital, recognising that investing in employee training and
development is essential for organisational growth and success. The company allocates resources to
provide various learning opportunities tailored to employees at different career stages, ensuring they
acquire the necessary skills to excel in their roles. By offering comprehensive training programmes,
HBGL aims to attract and retain top talent, ultimately enhancing its financial performance.
The company's objective is to deliver a holistic training experience that empowers employees to realise
their full potential and effectively contribute to the organisation's goals. Additionally, HBGL ensures that
training is implemented whenever there are changes in products or when new personnel are recruited,
emphasising the importance of continuous learning and adaptation.
In HBGL, we strive to cultivate an environment that fosters talent development, encourages continuous
improvement, and equips employees with the skills and knowledge needed to navigate the evolving
business landscape successfully. By nurturing our workforce and promoting a culture of learning and
growth, HBGL aims to sustain its competitive edge and drive long-term success.
In total, HBGL invested MYR 50,000.00 in training initiatives, resulting in employees receiving a total of
48 to 60 training hours. The breakdown of employees' training hours is as follows:
18
36
48
18
36
48
12
30
48
24
48
60
2021 2022 2023
TOTAL TRAINING HOURS
Management Executive Non-executive/Technical Staff General Workers
2
4
5.33
0.67
1.33
1.78
0.86
2.14
3.43
0.05 0.11 0.13
2021 2022 2023
AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE
Management Executive Non-executive/Technical Staff General Workers
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
29
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
19
• Remuneration Packages and Performance Management
HBGL places utmost respect on its employees, recognising them as the cornerstone of the Group's
enduring growth and remarkable achievements. Guided by principles of results-orientation,
accountability, collaboration, and shared success, we are committed to elevating individual and team
performance to unprecedented levels. To instil a culture of excellence, we conduct monthly performance
reviews, ensuring continual feedback and improvement.
The Group firmly upholds the evaluation of human resource practices, including employment, talent
development, and advancement, solely based on merit, without any discrimination. We believe in
acknowledging and celebrating outstanding performance, superior results, and exemplary conduct
through our compensation and recognition system. Our goal is to cultivate a motivating and supportive
environment by providing competitive benefits and compensation packages, attracting and retaining top
talent in the industry.
In alignment with our commitment to safeguarding the welfare of our workforce, our current employment
terms adhere to standard industry practices. Through our steadfast dedication to nurturing a high-
performance culture and prioritising employee well-being and recognition, we strive to create an
environment conducive to growth, innovation, and a profound sense of shared success. This, in turn,
contributes to the long-term sustainability and prosperity of our organisation.
Moreover, we take pride in maintaining a highly engaged workforce. The charts provided below illustrate
the total number of new hires, employee turnover, and turnover rate over the past three years:
0.14
0.3
0.41
OVERALL AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE
2021 2022 2023
25
32
38
TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW HIRES
2021 2022 2023
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
30
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
20
• Employee Engagement and Initiatives
In addition to safeguarding the physical health and safety of our employees, HBGL places significant
emphasis on their mental well-being. We are strong advocates of achieving a balanced work-life
harmony and strive to organise a diverse array of engagement initiatives aimed at fostering camaraderie
and enhancing work productivity.
With our primary focus on cultivating a positive and dynamic workplace culture that supports the holistic
development of our workforce, we annually host a meeting with our employees. In FY 2023, this
gathering served as a pivotal platform for nurturing collaboration, alignment, and engagement across
our organisation. Throughout the event, we shared crucial insights, celebrated milestones, and outlined
our strategic direction for the future.
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
2 2 2
2021 2022 2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
Management Executive Non-executive/Technical Staff General Workers
4.98
6.4
7.63
0.4 0.4 0.4
2021 2022 2023
RATES OF NEW HIRES AND TURNOVER IN FY 2023
New hire rates (%) Turnover rates (%)
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
31
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
21
HBGL Annual Meeting
Through our unwavering dedication to prioritising the health and well-being of our employees, both
physically and mentally, HBGL is committed to establishing an environment where individuals can thrive
personally and professionally. This commitment ultimately translates into heightened satisfaction,
productivity, and overall success within our organisation.
Related UNSDGs:
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
The Group's commitment to fostering a nurturing work environment that strongly opposes all forms of
unlawful discrimination is unwavering. Regardless of factors such as race, colour, gender, religion, age,
disability, or any other legally protected classification, we are dedicated to cultivating a culture that
promotes inclusivity and provides equal opportunities for all our employees. We firmly believe in
empowering every individual to thrive and excel to their fullest potential, irrespective of background or
identity. Through our policies, practices, and initiatives, we strive to create a workplace where diversity
is celebrated, and differences are embraced as strengths.
By upholding these principles of fairness, respect, and inclusivity, the Group remains committed to
fostering a work environment where every employee feels valued, respected, and supported in their
professional growth and development.
Our approach and performance
The Group unwaveringly upholds principles of fairness and equity in all its interactions, extending this
commitment to the treatment of employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, and competitors alike.
We are dedicated to fostering an inclusive environment where employees from diverse backgrounds
feel respected, valued, and empowered to contribute their unique perspectives and talents.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
32
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
22
In the fiscal year 2023, we are pleased to report that we recorded zero cases of complaints regarding
human rights violations. This achievement reflects our ongoing commitment to upholding human rights
standards and ensuring the well-being and dignity of all individuals associated with our operations.
2021 2022 2023
Number of substantiated complaints concerning human
rights violation
0 0 0
Moving forward, we remain steadfast in our efforts to maintain a workplace culture characterised by
fairness, respect, and inclusivity, as we believe these values are fundamental to our success as an
organisation and to our positive impact on society.
Furthermore, we are committed to ensuring equal access to career advancement opportunities and
leadership roles for all employees, irrespective of their individual characteristics. Our talent
management process includes regular skills assessments and career development planning for all
employees, fostering equal chances for professional growth and advancement.
By promoting a merit-based approach to talent management, we not only attract and retain exceptional
individuals but also enhance overall business performance. This commitment to equal opportunity
strengthens our organisational culture, fosters innovation, and drives sustainable growth. Thus, we will
continue to prioritise diversity, equity, and inclusion in all aspects of talent management, reaffirming our
dedication to creating a workplace where every employee has the opportunity to thrive and succeed.
The charts below showcase the Group’s board diversity performance and workforce profile.
Board Diversity
Total Directors of 7 in FY 2023
55.56 55.56 55.56
44.44 44.44 44.44
2021 2022 2023
GENDER (%)
Male Female
22.22 22.22 22.22
44.44 44.44 44.44
33.33 33.33 33.33
2021 2022 2023
AGE (%)
Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
33
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
23
Workforce Profile
Total Employees of 498 in FY 2023
21.71 21.20 20.88
78.29 78.80 79.12
2021 2022 2023
GENDER DIVERSITY (%)
Male Female
8.96 8.20 9.04
73.31 73.60 72.69
17.73 18.20 18.27
2021 2022 2023
AGE DIVERSITY (%)
Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50
0 0 0
100 100 100
0 0 0
0 0 0
2021 2022 2023
ETHNIC DIVERSITY (%)
Bumiputera Chinese Indian Others
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
34
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
24
Gender Diversity by Employee Category (%)
Male Female
55.56 55.56 55.56
44.44 44.44 44.44
2021 2022 2023
MANAGEMENT
55.56 55.56 55.56
44.44 44.44 44.44
2021 2022 2023
EXECUTIVE
36 43 42.86
64 57 57.14
2021 2022 2023
NON-EXECUTIVE/TECHNICAL STAFF
19 18 17.41
81 82 82.59
2021 2022 2023
GENERAL WORKERS
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
35
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
25
Age Diversity by Employee Category (%)
Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50
22.22 22.22 22.22
33.33 33.33 33.33
44.44 44.44 44.44
2021 2022 2023
MANAGEMENT
14.81 14.81 14.81
62.96 62.96 62.96
22.22 22.22 22.22
2021 2022 2023
EXECUTIVE
21.43 21.43 21.43
57.14 57.14 57.14
21.43 21.43 21.43
2021 2022 2023
NON-EXECUTIVE/TECHNICAL STAFF
7.96 7.11 8.04
75.22 75.56 74.55
16.81 17.33 17.41
2021 2022 2023
GENERAL WORKERS
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
36
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
26
Related UNSDGs:
Community
Contributing to local community development
Contributing to Local Communities/CSR
In recognition of the crucial importance of fostering strong connections between businesses and
communities to promote social inclusion and sustainable progress, HBGL is dedicated to actively
engaging with communities through a diverse range of programmes. Our primary objective is to
enhance our brand image and reputation while effectively addressing community needs and concerns.
Our commitment aims to extend beyond merely meeting expectations and delivering exceptional
products and services; it involves educating communities about our core business principles and
building trust in our endeavours. Additionally, our participation in welfare-driven initiatives is aimed at
improving local communities further strengthens our relationship with them.
Our approach and performance
Over the past three years, our community initiatives faced restrictions due to the emergence of Covid-
19. However, in fiscal year 2023, with the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions in China, we found the need to
adapt our strategies, leading to the postponement of community initiatives. Despite this, as we enter a
new year, we are fully committed to adjusting our approaches. Our dedication to supporting
communities remains steadfast, and we are actively exploring alternative methods to engage and
contribute meaningfully during these uncertain times. We firmly believe that our efforts not only directly
benefit communities but also strengthen the relationship between our company and the community.
Looking ahead, our focus remains on identifying opportunities to support community initiatives and
programmes aligned with our core values and mission. Our overarching objective is to build upon our
previous efforts, creating lasting impacts, and reinforcing the bond between HBGL and the communities
we proudly serve.
2021 2022 2023
Total amount invested in the community where the
target beneficiaries are external to HBGL (RMB)
0 0 0
Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in the
communities
0 0 0
Number of employees participated in community
impact programmes
0 0 0
Total hours spent on community impact 0 0 0
Related UNSDGs:
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
37
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
27
Customer Satisfaction
At HBGL, our management philosophy revolves around two core values: Quality and Safety. These
values embody our dedication to serving society through our products and services, always with a focus
on prioritising the customer. Our continuous pursuit of improving customer satisfaction drives us to
deliver products, solutions, and services that enrich the lives of individuals globally. Central to our
approach is providing customers with products they can trust, promoting peace of mind and fulfilment.
This steadfast commitment to offering dependable and reliable products is foundational to our
philosophy and underpins all our endeavours at HBGL. With this in mind, we are dedicated to enhancing
customer satisfaction by actively seeking and incorporating their feedback.
Our approach and performance
HBGL remains steadfast in its dedication to enhancing our customers' experience by actively engaging
with them. This includes regularly collecting feedback and conducting surveys to gauge customer
satisfaction with our sales and purchasing processes. These initiatives serve as invaluable tools,
providing insights into our customers' needs and expectations, which in turn inform the improvement of
our product and service offerings.
Furthermore, we are committed to aligning our offerings with sustainability principles. This not only
enhances customer satisfaction but also contributes positively to environmental and social outcomes.
By integrating sustainability into our business practices, we aim to demonstrate our commitment to
responsible corporate citizenship while meeting the evolving expectations of our customers in an
increasingly sustainability-conscious world.
Related UNSDGs:
Environment
Improving our environment by utilising greener alternatives
Climate Change (Energy Management & Emissions)
As passionate advocates of environmental stewardship, our foremost priority lies in fostering tangible
advancements for the betterment of our planet. Recognising the substantial impact of energy
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions on climate change, we are steadfast in conducting our
operations sustainably and responsibly. We actively pursue opportunities to transition towards a low-
carbon economy and strive to reduce our carbon footprint by implementing and advocating for
environmentally friendly initiatives.
Our approach and performance
HBGL recognises the significant impact of diesel and electricity on our energy consumption, leading to
the emission of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) like carbon dioxide, with adverse effects on the environment.
Thus, we are fully committed to reducing our carbon footprint and conserving energy. This involves
advocating for the adoption of renewable energy sources and enhancing energy efficiency across our
operations.
Within our organisation, the Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co. Ltd (manufacture division) stands out
as a major contributor to GHG emissions. To address this, our logistics management department
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
38
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
28
meticulously plans delivery routes to optimise logistics and minimise carbon emissions. Our dedication
to mitigating climate change and reducing environmental impacts remains steadfast, ensuring lasting
value for our business and stakeholders.
At HBGL, we embrace a proactive approach that combines preventive actions with robust policies,
including the polluter-pay principle, strengthened environmental management policies, and
environmental protection training. These measures underscore our unwavering commitment to
environmental responsibility and sustainable practices throughout our operations. As a result of our
concerted efforts, we have consistently achieved low total energy consumption over the years.
2021 2022 2023
Total energy consumption (GJ) 1.44 1.43 1.65
Additionally, we have diligently monitored our scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, revealing consistently low
figures.
Total emissions by scope (tCO2
e) 2021 2022 2023
Scope 1 39.80 37.36 40.15
Scope 2 0.31 0.31 0.36
Scope 3 5.49 4.96 6.66
Related UNSDGs:
Waste Management
Improper disposal of effluents, which carry high levels of chemicals and nutrients such as nitrogen,
phosphorus, and potassium, can significantly harm water quality and the biodiversity of marine and
freshwater ecosystems. Similarly, insufficient waste management methods can lead to pollution of air,
water, and soil, posing considerable risks to both the environment and human health. Moreover, the
excessive generation of waste from industrial processes exacerbates pressure on natural resources,
ultimately accelerating environmental degradation.
Our approach and performance
In HBGL, we promote the principles of reducing, reusing, and recycling, particularly within our office
and factory premises, as integral components of efficient waste management practices. Our
commitment involves managing scheduled waste in a manner that minimises the environmental
footprint of our operations while safeguarding natural resources and human health. As part of our efforts,
we prioritise the reuse of corrugated boxes within our warehouses whenever feasible.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
39
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
29
Below is a table illustrating the waste generated by our operations over the past three years:
2021 2022 2023
Waste diverted from disposal 200 180 220
Waste directed to disposal 170 160 150
Total waste generated (MT) 370 340 370
Related UNSDGs:
Water Management
Acknowledging that excessive water usage can strain water resources and contribute to wastewater
contamination, thereby endangering water quality and ecosystem integrity, we are committed to
mitigating these risks. Our dedication to reducing overall water consumption involves advocating and
implementing water-saving practices to preserve this vital resource. By actively promoting efficient
water management strategies, we aim to minimise environmental impact and safeguard the well-being
of local communities and ecosystems.
Our approach and performance
In the fiscal year 2023, our company recorded an average annual water consumption of 28,201 m3,
equivalent to 28.2 megalitres. We remain steadfast in our resolve to further reduce our water usage
through the adoption of effective water management tactics. As a demonstration of this commitment,
we have implemented a rainwater harvesting system alongside two sewage treatment tanks.
Furthermore, we will persist in raising awareness among our employees regarding the critical
importance of water conservation. These proactive measures underscore our dedication to positively
impacting water resource preservation and protecting local ecosystems and communities.
Related UNSDGs:
27.91
26.54
28.2
2021 2022 2023
TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER USED (MEGALITRES)
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
40
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
30
Performance Data Table
Indicator Unit 2021 2022 2023 Target
Economic Performance
Economic value
generated (e.g., revenue
and other income)
MYR’000 205,592 90,215 90,229
Economic value
distributed (e.g., cost of
sales, operating costs,
payment ton providers of
capital, and payment to
government)
MYR’000 244,505 261,215 134,229
Economic value retained MYR’000 -38,913 -171,000 -44,000
Cybersecurity and Data Protection
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of
customer privacy or
losses of customer
Number 0 0 0
Sustainable Supply Chain Management
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local
suppliers
Percentage 96 97 98
Anti-Corruption
Bursa C1(a) Percentage
of employees who have
received training on anti-
corruption by employee
category
Management Percentage 100 100 100
Executive Percentage 100 100 100
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
Percentage 80 80 80
General Workers Percentage 60 60 60
Bursa C1(b) Percentage
of operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 1 1 0.8
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed
incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number 0 0 0
Health and Safety
Bursa C5(a) Number of
work-related fatalities
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost Time
Incident Rate (“LTIR”)
Rate 0 0 0
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
41
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
31
Indicator Unit 2021 2022 2023 Target
Bursa C5(c) Number of
employees trained on
health and safety
standards
Number 269 306 398
Labour Practices and Standards/Employee Management
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category
Management Hours 18 36 48
Executive Hours 18 36 48
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
Hours
12 30 48
General Workers Hours 24 48 60
Bursa C6(c) Total number
of employee turnover by
employee category
Management Number 0 0 0
Executive Number 0 0 0
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
Number
0 0 0
General Workers Number 2 2 2
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C3(a) Percentage
of employees by gender
and age group by
employee category
Gender group by
employee category
Management
- Male
Percentage
55.56 55.56 55.56
Management
- Female
Percentage
44.44 44.44 44.44
Executive
- Male
Percentage
55.56 55.56 55.56
Executive
- Female
Percentage
44.44 44.44 44.44
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
- Male
Percentage
36 43 42.86
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
- Female
Percentage
64 57 57.14
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
42
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
32
Indicator Unit 2021 2022 2023 Target
General Workers - Male Percentage 19 18 17.41
General Workers - Female Percentage 81 82 82.59
Age group by employee
category
Management
- Under 30
Percentage
22.22 22.22 22.22
Management
- Between 30-50
Percentage
33.33 33.33 33.33
Management
- Above 50
Percentage
44.44 44.44 44.44
Executive
- Under 30
Percentage
14.81 14.81 14.81
Executive
- Between 30-50
Percentage
62.96 62.96 62.96
Executive
- Above 50
Percentage
22.22 22.22 22.22
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
- Under 30
Percentage
21.43 21.43 21.43
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
- Between 30-50
Percentage
57.14 57.14 57.14
Non-executive/
Technical Staff
- Above 50
Percentage
21.43 21.43 21.43
General Workers - Under
30
Percentage
7.96 7.11 8.04
General Workers -
Between 30-50
Percentage
75.22 75.56 74.55
General Workers - Above
50
Percentage
16.81 17.33 17.41
Bursa C3(b) Percentage
of directors by gender and
age group
Male Percentage 55.56 55.56 55.56
Female Percentage 44.44 44.44 44.44
Under 30 Percentage 22.22 22.22 22.22
Between 30-50 Percentage 44.44 44.44 44.44
Above 50 Percentage 33.33 33.33 33.33
Bursa C6(b) Percentage
of employees that are
contractors or temporary
staff
Percentage
Gender diversity - Male Percentage 21.71 21.20 20.88
Gender diversity - Female Percentage 78.29 78.80 79.12
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
43
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
33
Indicator Unit 2021 2022 2023 Target
Age diversity - Under 30 Percentage 8.96 8.20 9.04
Age diversity
- Between 30-50
Percentage
73.31 73.60 72.69
Age diversity - Above 50 Percentage 17.73 18.20 18.27
Ethnic diversity
- Bumiputera
Percentage
0 0 0
Ethnic diversity - Chinese Percentage 100 100 100
Ethnic diversity - Indian Percentage 0 0 0
Ethnic diversity - Others Percentage 0 0 0
Contributing to Local Communities/CSR
Bursa C2(a) Total amount
invested in the community
where the target
beneficiaries are external
to the listed issuer
MYR 0 0 0
Bursa C2(b) Total number
of beneficiaries of the
investment in communities
Number 0 0 0
Climate Change (Energy Management & Emissions)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Gigajoules 1.44 1.43 1.65
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1
emissions in tonnes of
CO2e
tCO2e 39.80 37.36 40.15
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2
emissions in tonnes of
CO2e
tCO2e 0.31 0.31 0.36
Bursa C11 (c) Scope 3
emissions in tonnes of
CO2e
tCO2e 5.49 4.96 6.66
Waste Management
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric
tonnes
370 340 370
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total
waste diverted from
disposal
Metric
tonnes
200 180 220
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total
waste directed to disposal
Metric
tonnes
170 160 150
Water Management
Bursa C9(a) Total volume
of water used
Megalitres 27.91 26.54 28.20
Note: Italicised fonts represent indicators other than those under the common material matters.
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*) Restated
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
44
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
34
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
To bolster the credibility of our Sustainability Statement, specific sections have been subjected to the
following:
a) Internal Review by the Group’s Management Internal Audit Team
b) Independent Assurance in accordance with recognised standards for selected indicators and
has been approved by the Group’s Audit and Risk Management Committee
The Scope, Subject Matter(s) covered, and Conclusion (where applicable) are provided below:
Type of
Assurance
Material
Matters
Subject Matter Scope Conclusion
Review by
Independent
Assurance
Auditor
Climate
Change
Total energy consumption Operations
assessed:
China
Based on the
procedures we have
performed and the
evidence we have
obtained, nothing has
come to our attention
that causes us to
believe that the Subject
Matter as presented in
HBGL’s Sustainability
Statement 2023 have
not been prepared and
presented fairly, in all
material respects, in
accordance with the
Criteria defined below.
Scope 1 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e
Scope 2 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e
Scope 3 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e
Internal
Review by
Management
Internal
Audit Team
Economic
Performance
Direct economic value
generated and distributed
Operations
assessed:
China
Currently in review by
the management team
Anti-corruption Percentage of employees
who have received
training on anti-corruption
by employee category
Percentage of operations
assessed for corruption-
related risk
Confirmed incidents of
corruption and action
taken
Cybersecurity
and Data
Protection
Number of substantiated
complaints concerning
breaches of customer
privacy and losses of
customer data
Employee
Management
Total hours of training by
employee category
Total number of employee
turnover by employee
category
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
45
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
35
Please refer to the following page for the Independent Limited Assurance Statement provided by ASAP
Advisory PLT.
Moving forward, we are committed to enhancing the accuracy and quality of our data to bolster our
disclosures. We aim to achieve this by subjecting all indicators to independent assurance over the next
five years. This proactive approach underscores our dedication to transparency and accountability in
our sustainability reporting practices.
*Note: In preparing the Subject Matter mentioned above, HB Global applied the following criteria:
• IFRS Foundations - International Integrated Reporting Framework and Integrated Thinking
Principles
• Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”)
• HB Global’s relevant policies and procedures
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Independent Limited Assurance Statement
Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Directors of HB Global Limited on Sustainability
Metrics within the Sustainability Report 2023.
Our Conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come
to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter as presented in HB Global’s
Sustainability Statement 2023 have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in
accordance with the Criteria defined below.
Scope of Work
ASAP Advisory PLT (“ASAP” or “we”) was engaged by HB Global Limited (“HB Global”) to perform a
‘limited assurance engagement,’ as defined by the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(“ISAE”) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagement other than Audits or Review of Historical Financial
Information, on selected subject matters (“Subject Matter”) included in HB Global’s 2023 Sustainability
Statement (“SS2023”) for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Subject Matter
Our limited assurance engagement was performed for the Subject Matter listed in the table below, as
presented in the SS2023:
Material Matters Subject Matter Scope
Climate Change Total energy consumption Operations assessed: China
Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
The scope of our work was limited to the Subject Matter presented in the SS2023 and did not include
coverage of data sets or information unrelated to the data and information underlying the Subject Matter
and related disclosures; nor did it include information reported outside of the SS2023, comparisons
against historical data, or management’s forward-looking statements.
Criteria applied by HB Global
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
46
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
36
In preparing the Subject Matter mentioned above, HB Global applied the following criteria:
• IFRS Foundations - International Integrated Reporting Framework and Integrated Thinking
Principles Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”)
• HB Global’s relevant policies and procedures
HB Global’s Responsibilities
HB Global’s management is responsible for selecting the Criteria, and for presenting the Subject Matter
in accordance with that Criteria, in all material respects. This responsibility includes establishing and
maintaining internal controls, maintaining adequate records, and making estimates that are relevant to
the preparation of the Subject Matter, such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
ASAP’s responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express our conclusion on whether anything has come to our attention that
causes us to believe that the Subject Matter and related disclosures as presented in the SS2023 are
not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria.
We have performed our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the terms of reference for
this engagement agreed with HB Global, including performing the engagement in accordance with the
ISAE 3000, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This Standard
requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the
Subject Matter and related disclosures as presented in the SS2023 are free from material misstatement.
A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3000 involves assessing the
suitability in the circumstances of HB Global’s use of the criteria specified as the basis of preparation
used for the selected Subject Matter and related disclosures presented in the SS2023, assessing the
risks of material misstatement thereof, whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks
as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the Subject Matter and
related disclosures in the SS2024. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions.
Our Independence and Quality Control
This assurance has been conducted at a limited level according to International Professional Practices
Framework (“IPPF”), the IIA2, at a minimum the internal audit function should provide the following
assurance over ESG reporting;
1) Review reporting metrics for relevancy, accuracy, timeliness and consistency;
2) Review reporting for consistency with formal financial disclosure filings;
3) Conduct materiality or risk assessments on ESG reporting;
including the Principles contained within the International Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”), Task
Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”).
Statement Of Independence and Competence
ASAP provides a range of services, including internal audit, internal control review, risk management,
and environmental, social, and ethical auditing and training. Additionally, we offer assurance services
for environmental, social, sustainability, and ESG reports.
We affirm our independence from HB Global, ensuring freedom from bias and conflicts of interest with
the organisation, its subsidiaries, and stakeholders. The assurance team was carefully assembled
based on their knowledge, experience, and qualifications for this assignment. The team members
included:
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
47
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
37
Ong Tian Soon (Charlie) Lead Auditor
Koh Chee Keng Auditor
Description of Procedures Performed
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from and are less
in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained
in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been
obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion
and do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance.
Although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the
nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide
assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls or performing
procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems.
A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for
preparing the Subject Matter and related information and applying analytical and other appropriate
procedures.
Our procedures included:
• Gaining an understanding of HB Global’s business, internal processes and approach to
sustainability
• Conducting interviews with key personnel and collating evidence to understand HB Global’s
process for reporting performance indicators and disclosures, including inquiring regarding risks of
misstatement and quality controls to address risks
• Conducting limited assurance procedures over the selected Subject Matter and disclosures,
including:
− Undertaking analytical procedures to support the reasonableness of the data
− Checking that the calculation Criteria have been applied as per the methodologies for the
Subject Matter within the Statement
− Identifying and testing assumptions supporting calculations
− Testing, on a sample basis, underlying source information to check accuracy of the data
− Performing recalculations of performance indicators using input data
− Checking that measurements made at the end of the reporting period are timely entered in the
records and the sustainability statement
− Obtaining appropriate representations from management, in the form of a management
representation letter addressed to us to confirm that the management believes that it has
fulfilled its responsibilities
We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
Inherent Limitations
Inherent limitations of assurance engagements include use of judgement and selective testing of data,
which means that it is possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected in
the course of performing the engagement. Accordingly, there is some risk that a material misstatement
may remain undetected. Further, our limited assurance engagement is not designed to detect fraud or
error that is immaterial.
There are additional inherent risks associated with assurance engagements performed for non-financial
information given the characteristics of the subject matter and associated with the compilation of source
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
48
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
38
data using definitions and methods for determining, calculating, and estimating such information that
are developed internally by management. The absence of a significant body of established practice on
which to draw, allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can
result in materially different measurements and can impact comparability. The precision of different
measurement techniques may also vary. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the
accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. In particular, where the
information relies on factors derived by independent third parties, our assurance work has not included
examination of the derivation of those factors and other third-party information.
Other Matters
Information relating to prior reporting periods has not been subject to assurance procedures. Our report
does not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies
disclosed in the SS2023. The maintenance and integrity of HB Global’s website is the responsibility of
HB Global’s management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and,
accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to the Subject Matter and related disclosures,
the SS2023 or to our independent limited assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date
of presentation on the HB Global’s website.
Restriction of use
Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited assurance conclusion on the matters
stated above in our report provided to the directors of HB Global in accordance with the terms of our
engagement, and for no other purpose.
Our report is intended solely for the directors of HB Global and should not be used by any other parties.
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or assume liability to any party other than
the directors of HB Global, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have reached.
We agree to the publication of this assurance report in HB Global’s SS2023 for the financial year ended
31 December 2023, provided it is clearly understood by recipients of the SS2023 that they enjoy such
receipt for information only and that we accept no duty of care to them whatsoever in respect of this
report.
ASAP Advisory PLT
201804000474 (LLP0014854-LGN)
Johor Bahru, Malaysia
29 March 2024
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
49
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
39
LOOKING FORWARD
As a publicly listed company, we are deeply committed to conducting our business with transparency
and integrity. This Sustainability Statement serves as a crucial platform for us to engage with our
stakeholders and disseminate information regarding our sustainability initiatives. In accordance with
this commitment, we implemented policies such as the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the
Whistleblowing Policy in 2020. We maintain a zero-tolerance stance towards fraudulent activities,
bribery, corruption, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. Upholding these values and
principles, we aim to foster trust and confidence among our stakeholders and uphold our responsibilities
as a responsible corporate entity.
Looking forward, we are dedicated to supporting the transition to a more sustainable future and aiding
in the rebuilding of the economy. We understand that the pandemic has presented both challenges and
opportunities for businesses and society as a whole. With the easing of restrictions in China, we
anticipate expanding our growth and thriving in our endeavours. Moving forward, we will continue to
prioritise the health and safety of our employees, customers, and communities, while remaining
adaptable and innovative in response to evolving circumstances.
Furthermore, our management is fully committed to enhancing our digital capabilities to better serve
customers and champion sustainable practices across our operations. Our sustained emphasis on
sustainability builds upon our efforts to minimise our environmental footprint and engage stakeholders
on crucial social and ethical issues. Together, we embark on a journey of innovation and achievement,
poised to generate enduring value for our stakeholders, transform global landscapes, and make
meaningful contributions to society and the environment.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
50
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
40
RELATIONSHIP WITH UNSDGS
Sustainable Development Goals Main Activity Detailed Information
No Poverty
Providing equal work
opportunities
• Workplace
Zero Hunger - -
Good Health and Well-
being
Safe working environment • Workplace
Quality Education
Training and development for
employees
• Workplace
Gender Equality
Employment policy of no
discrimination
• Workplace
Clean Water and
Sanitation
Promoting water conservation • Environment
Affordable and Clean
Energy
- -
Decent Work and
Economic Growth
Good management
• Economic
• Marketplace
• Workplace
• Community
Industry, Innovation, and
Infrastructure
Fostering innovation
• Marketplace
• Community
Reducing Inequality
Employment policy of no
discrimination
• Workplace
Sustainable Cities and
Communities
Implementation of pollution
prevention initiatives
• Environment
Responsible Consumption
and Production
Promise to deliver safe and
quality products
• Marketplace
• Environment
Climate Action Reduce CO2 emission • Environment
Life Below Water - -
Life On Land - -
Peace, Justice, and Strong
Institutions
Anti-corruption, cybersecurity
and data protection
• Marketplace
• Governance
Partnerships for the Goals Sustainability report initiative • Looking Forward
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
51
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
41
TCFD-ALIGNED DISCLOSURES
(As recommended by IFRS1 and IFRS2, we can continue using the TCFD recommendations)
TCFD Recommendation HB Global Disclosure Reference
Governance – Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of
climate -related risks and opportunities
• Risk management Board skills and
experience – climate change
• Sustainability Committee – role and
focus
• Chairman Statement
• Governance
b) Describe management’s role in
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.
• Risk management Climate change –
managing risk and opportunity
• Sustainability Committee – role and
focus FY 2023
• Governance
• Supply Chain Management
• Environment
Strategy – Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material
a) Describe the climate-related risks
and opportunities the organisation has
identified over the short, medium, and
long term.
• Risk management – Risk factors
(climate change, greenhouse gas
emissions and energy)
• Climate change – managing risk and
opportunity
• Materiality Matrix
b) Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the
organisation’s businesses, strategy,
and financial planning.
• Risk management – Risk factors
(climate change, greenhouse gas
emissions and energy)
• Climate change – managing risk and
opportunity
• Materiality Matrix
c) Describe the resilience of the
organisation’s strategy, taking into
consideration different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower
scenario
• Climate change – evaluating the
resilience of our portfolio
• Energy Management &
Emissions
Risk management – Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks
a) Describe the organisation’s
processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related risks.
• Risk management • Materiality Matrix
b) Describe the organisation’s
processes for managing climate-
related risks.
• Risk management – Risk factors
(climate change, greenhouse gas
emissions and energy)
• Materiality Matrix
• Energy Management &
Emissions
c) Describe how processes for
identifying, assessing, and managing
climate related risks are integrated into
the organisation’s overall risk
management.
• Risk management non-financial
KPIs – sustainability KPIs
• Risk management – Risk factors
(climate change, greenhouse gas
emissions and energy)
• Materiality Matrix
• Energy Management &
Emissions
Metrics and targets – Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks
and opportunities where such information is material
a) Disclose the metrics used by the
organisation to assess climate-related
risks and opportunities in line with its
strategy and risk management
process.
• Non-financial KPIs – sustainability
• KPIs Climate change – Operational
emissions
• Climate change – Scope 3
emissions
• Energy Management &
Emissions
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions, and the related
risks.
• Non-financial KPIs – sustainability
KPIs
• Energy Management &
Emissions
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
52
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT HB GLOBAL LIMITED - YE2023
42
TCFD Recommendation HB Global Disclosure Reference
• Climate change – operational
emissions performance
• Climate change – Scope 3
emissions performance Climate
change data
c) Describe the targets used by the
organisation to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets.
• Non-financial KPIs – sustainability
KPIs
• Climate change – operational
emissions performance FY2023
performance outcomes
• Energy Management &
Emissions
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
53
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board is committed to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance is practised throughout HB
Global Limited (“HB Global” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) in discharging its responsibilities
with integrity, transparency and professionalism, to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the financial
position of the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and fully supports the principles and
best practices promulgated in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) issued by the
Securities Commission Malaysia to enhance business prosperity and maximise shareholders’ value. The Board will
continuously evaluate the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures, and where appropriate
will adopt and implement the best practices as enshrined in MCCG to the best interest of the shareholders of
the Company.
Below is a statement and description in general on how the Group has applied the principles and complied
with the best practice provisions as laid out in MCCG throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2023
(“FYE 2023”) pursuant to Paragraph 15.25 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
This Statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report 2023 (“CG Report”) of the Company
which is available on the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com. The detailed explanation on the application
of the corporate governance practices is reported under the CG Report.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
• Board Leadership on Objectives and Goals
Strategic Aims, Values and Standards
The Group is led and controlled by an effective Board. The Board provides strategic direction for the Group and
regularly meets to review corporate strategies, resolve operational affairs and monitor the financial performance
of the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the long-term success of the Group and
its overall strategic direction, its values and its governance. The Board is led by experienced and knowledgeable
Directors who provide the Company with the core competencies and the leadership necessary for the Group to
meet its business objectives and goals. The Board regularly reviews the Group’s business operations, management
performance and also ensures the necessary resources are in place.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, which includes the overall Group
strategy and direction, investment policy, major capital expenditures, consideration of significant financial
matters and review of the financial and operating performance of the Group.
The management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of the Company, are
responsible for managing the day-to-day running of the business activities in accordance with the direction and
delegation of the Board. The management meets regularly to discuss and resolve operational issues. The Chief
Executive Officer and Executive Director briefs the Board on business performance and operations as well as the
management initiatives during quarterly Board’s meetings.
The Board is entrusted with the responsibility to promote the success of the Group by directing and supervising
the Group’s affairs. Hence, to develope corporate objectives and position descriptions including the limits to
management’s responsibilities, which the management are aware and are responsible for meeting.
The Board understands the principal risks of all aspects of the business that the Group is engaged in recognising
that business decisions require the incurrence of risk. To achieve a proper balance between risks incurred and
potential returns to shareholders, the Board ensures that there are systems in place that effectively monitor and
manage these risks with a view to the long term viability of the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
54
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
The principal roles and responsibilities assumed by the Board are as follows:
• Review and adopt strategic plan of the Group
The Board plays an active role in the development of the Group’s overall corporate strategy, marketing plan
and financial plan. The Board is presented with the short and long-term strategy of the Group together with
its proposed business plans for the forthcoming year. The Board also monitors budgetary exercises which
support the Group’s business plan and budget plan.
• Implementation of internal compliance controls and justifies measures to address principal risks
The Board is fully alert of the responsibilities of maintaining a proper internal control system. The Board is
responsible for the Group’s internal control systems including financial condition of the business, operational,
regulatory compliance as well as risk management matters.
• To formulate and have in place an appropriate succession plan
The Board is responsible to formulate and have in place an appropriate succession plan encompassing the
appointment, training, and determination of compensation for senior management of the Group, as well
as assessing the performance of Directors and Board Committee members and, where appropriate, retiring
and appointing new members of the Board and Executive Directors.
The Board has entrusted the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee with the duty to review
candidates with required mix of skills and experience for the Board and to determine remuneration packages
for these appointments, and to formulate nomination, selection and remuneration for the Group.
• Developing and implementing an investor relations program or shareholder communications policy for the
Group
The Board recognises that shareholders and other stakeholders are entitled to be informed in a timely and
readily accessible manner of all material information concerning the Company through a series of regular
disclosure events during the financial year. Hence, the Company website is the primary medium in providing
information to all shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board will normally hold meetings at least four (4) times in each financial year to consider:
i) relevant operational reports from the management;
ii) reports on the financial performance;
iii) specific proposals for capital expenditure and acquisitions, if any;
iv) major issues and opportunities for the Company, if any; and
v) quarterly financial statements for announcement to authorities.
In addition, the Board will, at intervals of not more than one (1) year:
i) approve annual financial statements, and other reports to shareholders;
ii) consider and, if appropriate, declare or recommend the payment of dividends;
iii) review the Board composition, structure and succession plan;
iv) review the Company’s audit requirements;
v) review the performance of, and composition of Board committees;
vi) undertake Board and individual Board member evaluations;
vii) review Board remuneration; and
viii) review risk assessment policies and controls and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The roles and responsibilities of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors are clearly
defined and properly segregated. All the Independent Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Executive
Directors, management and major shareholders of the Company, and are free from any business or other
relationship with the Group that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. This
offers a strong check and balance on the Board’s deliberations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
55
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
The Executive Directors are responsible for the overall performance and operations as well as the corporate
affairs and administrations of the Group. They are assisted by the senior management personnel of the Group
in managing the business activities of the Group in the manner that is consistent with the policies, standards,
guidelines, procedures and/or practices of the Group and in accordance with the specific plans, instructions
and directions set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer holds the principal obligations in focusing, guiding, addressing, supervising,
regulating, managing and controlling as well as communicating the Company’s goals and objectives, as well
as all significant corporate matters, corporate restructuring plans, business extension plans and proposals.
TheIndependentNon-ExecutiveDirectorsoftheCompanyplay a keyrolein providingunbiased andindependent
views, advice and contributing their knowledge and experience toward the formulation of policies and in the
decision-making process. The Board structure ensures that no individual or group of individuals dominates the
Board’s decision-making process. Although all the Directors have equal responsibility for the Company and
the Group’s operations, the role of the Independent Directors are particularly important in ensuring that the
strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are deliberated on and have taken into account the interest, not
only of the Company, but also that of the shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the community.
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to four (4) Board Committees namely
the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee. All
the Board Committees have its own terms of reference and has the authority to act on behalf of the Board within
the authority as lay out in the terms of reference and to report to the Board with the necessary recommendation.
Separation of positions of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Chairman of the Board, Mr Chan Kay Ding, who is an Independent Non-Executive Chairman appointed to
the Board on 22 February 2024, plays an instrumental role in leading the Board by setting the tone at the top
and managing Board effectiveness by focusing on strategy, governance and compliance. The Chairman also
provides leadership at Board level and represents the Board to the shareholders and other stakeholders.
While the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Mr Shen Hengbao is primarily responsible for the day-to-day
management of the business and assessing the potential business opportunities and report the same to the
Board for their discussion.
Chairman of the Board should not be a member of the Board Committees
The Board endeavours to comply with the Practice 1.4 of the MCCG whereby the Chairman of the Board should
not be a member of the Board Committees. The Board also acknowledges the risk of self-review and may impair
the objectivity of the Chairman and the Board when deliberating on the observations and recommendations
put forth by the Board Committees.
Currently, the Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Board might
consider on the shuffling of the composition of the Board Committees, as and when it is necessary. However,
with the presence of two (2) independent directors from a total of three (3) committees members, the Board is
of the view that it is sufficient to provide the necessary checks and objectivity when comes to any deliberations.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Board is supported by one (1) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretary. The Company
Secretary plays an advisory role to the Board and is responsible to ensure that Board policies and procedures
are both followed.
The Company Secretary will attend all Board and Board Committee meetings and is responsible for the proper
maintenance of records of the discussions on key deliberations and decisions taken during the Board and Board
Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary renders necessary assistance to the Board and ensures meeting procedures are
followed and the applicable laws and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary has kept himself abreast of the development and new changes in relation to any
legislation and regulations concerning the corporate administration and to highlight the same to the Board of
Directors accordingly. 		
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
56
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Board Committees
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to the following four (4) Board
Committees:
a) Audit Committee (“AC”);
b) Nomination Committee (“NC”);
c) Remuneration Committee (“RC”); and
d) Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).
All the Board Committees have its own terms of reference and has the authority to act on behalf of the Board
within the authority as lay out in the terms of reference. These Committees are formed in order to enhance
business and operational efficiency as well as efficacy. The Chairman of the respective Committees will report
to the Board the outcome of the Committees meetings for the Board’s considerations and approvals. The Board
retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Company and the Group.
A copy of the terms of reference of the board committees is available on the Company’s website at
www.hbglob.com.
Access to Information and Advice
Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each meeting confirming the venue, time, date and agenda of the meeting
together with relevant Board papers shall be forwarded to each director no later than seven (7) days before the
date of the meeting. This is to ensure that Board papers comprising of due notice of issues to be discussed and
supporting information and documentation were provided to the Board sufficiently in advance. The deliberations
of the Board in terms of the issues discussed during the meetings and the Board’s conclusions in discharging its
duties and responsibilities are recorded in the minutes of meetings by the Company Secretary.
The Board has unrestricted access to all information within the Company as a full Board to enable them to
discharge their duties and responsibilities and is supplied on a timely basis with information and reports on
financial, regulatory and audit matters by way of Board papers for informed decision making and meaningful
discharge of its duties.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for
ensuring the Board’s meeting procedures are adhered to and that applicable rules and regulations are complied
with. In addition, external advisers are invited to attend meetings to provide insights and professional views,
advice and explanation on specific items on the meeting agenda, when required. Senior management team
are also invited to participate at the Board meetings to enable all Board members to have equal access to the
latest updates and developments of business operations of the Group. The Chairman of Board Committees briefs
the Board on matters discussed as well as decisions taken at the meetings of their respective Board Committees
meetings.
When necessary, Directors may whether as a full Board or in their individual capacity, seek independent
professional advice, including the internal and external auditors, at the Company’s expense to enable the
directors to discharge their duties with adequate knowledge on the matters being deliberated, subject to
approval by the Chairman of the Board, and depending on the quantum of the fees involved.
• Demarcation of Responsibilities
Board Charter
As part of governance process, the Board has adopted a Board Charter which sets out the composition and
balance, roles and responsibilities, operation and processes of the Board. The details of the Board Charter are
available for reference at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com.
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
Following the amendments to MMLR, the Board adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy to assess any person
identified to be appointed as a Director or to continue holding the position as a Director within the group.
The details of the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy are available for reference at the Company’s website at
www.hbglob.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
57
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
• Good Business Conduct and Corporate Culture
Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board is committed in maintaining a corporate culture which engenders ethical conduct. The Company
has established the Code of Conduct and Ethics, which summarises what the Company must proactively
endeavour to do in order to increase corporate value and describes the areas in daily activities that require
caution to minimise any risks that may occur. The details of the Code of Conduct and Ethics are available for
reference at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com.
Whistle-blowing Policy
The Company has established the Whistle-blowing Policy, with the aim to provide an avenue for raising concerns
related to possible breach of business conduct, non-compliance of laws and regulatory requirements as well
as other malpractices. The details of the Whistle-blowing Policy are available for reference at the Company’s
website at www.hbglob.com.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
The Company has in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to incorporate the policies and procedures
on anti-bribery and corruption to promote better governance culture and ethical behaviour within the Group
and to prevent the occurrence of corrupt practices in accordance with the new Section 17A of the Malaysian
Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2018 on corporate liability for corruption. The details of the Anti-Bribery and
Corruption Policy is available for reference at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com.
Governing Sustainability
The Board considered on the sustainability matters as recommended in the MCCG. The Board together with
the Management takes responsibility for the governance of sustainability in the company including setting
Company’s sustainability strategies, priorities and targets.
Despite challenging economic conditions amidst the uncertain political and pandemic-influenced climate
during the financial year under review, the Group had maintained its efforts to improve business sustainability
and stakeholder engagement throughout the financial year. The Management believes that sustainable success
will only be attainable through collaborative efforts between the Group, its stakeholders and the community.
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
• Board’s objectivity
Board Composition and Balance
The Board is committed in ensuring that its composition not only reflects the diversity as recommended by
MCCG, as best as it can, but also the right mix of skills and balance to contribute to the achievement of the
Group’s goal and business objectives.
As at the date of this report, the Board of HB Global comprises of six (6) members of whom one (1) is
Independent Non-Executive Chairman, one (1) is Executive Director, one (1) is Chief Executive Officer and three
(3) are Independent Non-Executive Directors, thereby meeting the minimum one-third (1/3) requirement for
independent directors to be appointed to the Board as required under the MMLR as well as the recommendation
of MCCG whereby at least half of the Board comprises of independent directors. In the event of any vacancy
on the Board, resulting in non-compliance with Paragraph 15.02 of the MMLR, the Company will fill the vacancy
within three (3) months.
The current composition of the Board provides an effective Board with a mix of industry specific knowledge,
broad based business and commercial experience together with independent judgement on matters of
strategy, operations, resources and business conduct. The combination of professionals with diverse and varied
backgrounds, wealth of experience and expertise in finance and corporate affairs also enables the Board to
discharge its responsibilities effectively and efficiently. The profiles of the Directors and Key Senior Management
are set out in this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
58
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Tenure of Independent Directors and Policy of Independent Director’s Tenure
Currently, the Board does not have a formal policy on the tenure for Independent Director as the Board is of
the view that a term of more than nine (9) years may not necessarily impair independence and judgement of
an Independent Director and therefore the Board does not deem it appropriate to impose a fixed term limit for
Independent Director at this juncture.
However, as recommended by the MCCG, the tenure of an Independent Director should not exceed cumulative
term of nine (9) years. Upon completion of the nine (9) years, an Independent Director may continue to serve
on the Board subject to the re-designation of the said person as a Non-Independent Director. In the event the
Board intends to retain such Director as Independent Director after the latter has served a cumulative term of
nine (9) years, the Board must provide justification and seek annual shareholders’ approval through a two-tier
voting process.
Currently, Mr Yang Chin Sen, the Independent Director of the Company who had served the Board for a
cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, is going to be retained as an Independent Directors through a two-
tier voting process at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
New Candidates for Board Appointment
The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the recommendations
of the NC. As a whole, the Company maintains a very lean number of Board members. New appointees will
be considered and evaluated by the NC. The NC will then recommend the candidates to be approved and
appointed by the Board. The Company Secretary will ensure that all appointments are properly made, and that
legal and regulatory obligations are met.
Generally, the Board adopts a flexible approach when selecting and appointing new Directors depending
upon the circumstances and timing of the appointment. The NC will help assess and recommend to the Board,
the candidature of Directors, appointment of Directors to Board Committees, review of Board’s succession plans
and training programmes for the Board.
In assessing suitability of candidates, consideration will be given to the core competencies, commitment,
contribution and performance of the candidates to ensure that there is a range of skills, experience and diversity
(including gender diversity) represented in addition to an understanding of the business, the markets and the
industry in which the Group operates and the accounting, finance and legal matters.
In general, the process for the appointment of director to the Board are as follows:
i) The NC reviews the Board’s composition through Board assessment/evaluation;
ii) The NC determines skills matrix;
iii) The NC evaluates and matches the criteria of the candidates, and will consider diversity, including gender,
where appropriate;
iv) The NC recommends to the Board for appointment; and
v) The Board approves the appointment of the candidates.
Factors considered by the NC when recommending a person for appointment as a director include:
i) Skills, knowledge, expertise and experience;
ii) the merits and time commitment required for a Non-Executive Director to effectively discharge his or her
duties to the Company;
iii) the outside commitments of a candidate to be appointed or elected as a Non-Executive Director and the
need for that person to acknowledge that they have sufficient time to effectively discharge their duties; and
iv) the extent to which the appointee is likely to work constructively with the existing Directors and contribute to
the overall effectiveness of the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
59
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Boardroom Diversity
The Board acknowledges the importance of boardroom diversity and is supportive of the recommendation of
MCCG to the establishment of boardroom and workforce gender diversity policy. However, the Board does
not adopt any formal boardroom diversity policy in the selection of new Board candidates and does not
have specific policies on setting target for female candidates in the Group. The Group basically evaluate the
suitability of candidates as new Board member or as a member of the workforce based on the candidates’
competency, skills, character, time commitment, knowledge, experience and other qualities in meeting the
needs of the Group, regardless of gender. Equal opportunity is given and does not practise discrimination of any
form, whether based on age, gender, race and religion, throughout the organisation. Nevertheless, the Board
will evaluate and match the criteria of the potential candidate as well as considering the boardroom diversity
for any new proposed appointment of Directors of the Company in the future.
Currently, our Board comprise of one (1) female Director and the Board may consider appointing more females
onto the Board in future to bring about a more diverse perspective.
The existing Directors’ age distribution falls within the respective age group and are as follows:
Age Group 30-39 40-49 50 & above
Number of Directors 3 2 1
The current diversity in the race/ethnicity and nationality of the existing Directors are as follows:
Number of Directors
Race/Ethnicity Nationality
Malay Chinese Indian Others Malaysian Foreign
0 5 0 1 5 1
Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies
The directorships in other public listed companies in Malaysia held by any Board member at any one time shall not
exceed any number as may be prescribed by the relevant authorities. In addition, at the time of appointment,
the Board shall obtain the Director’s commitment to devote sufficient time to carry out his responsibilities. Directors
are required to notify the Chief Executive Officer before accepting any new directorship(s). The notification
would include an indication of time that will be spent on the new appointment(s). Any Director is, while holding
office, at liberty to accept other Board appointment in other companies so long as the appointment is not in
conflict with the Company’s business and does not affect the discharge of his/her duty as a Director of the
Company. To ensure the Directors have the time to focus and fulfill their roles and responsibilities effectively, one
(1) criterion as agreed by the Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than five (5) public listed
companies as prescribed in Paragraph 15.06 of the MMLR.
Board Meetings and Attendance
There were five (5) Board of Directors’ meetings held during the FYE 2023. Details of the attendance of the
Directors at the Board of Directors’ meetings are as follow:
Name of Director Total Meetings Attended Percentage of Attendance
Chan Kay Ding
(appointed on 22 February 2024)
Nil Nil
Shen Hengbao 5/5 100%
Yang Chin Shen 5/5 100%
Ho Pui Hold 5/5 100%
Keh Chuan Yee 5/5 100%
Lew Seh Li 5/5 100%
Keh Chuan Seng
(resigned on 22 February 2024)
5/5 100%
Khoo Lay Tatt
(resigned on 6 December 2023)
5/5 100%
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
60
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
All the Directors complied with the minimum 50% attendance requirement in respect of Board of Directors’
meetings held during the FYE 2023 as stipulated under Paragraph 15.05 of the MMLR.
The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by the Directors of the Company towards fulfilling
their duties and responsibilities.
The Board meets on a quarterly basis, with amongst others, to review the operations, financial performance,
reports from the various Board Committees and other significant matters of the Group. Where any direction or
decisions are required expeditiously or urgently from the Board between the regular meetings, special Board
meetings may be convened by the Company Secretary, after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer.
Additionally, in between Board meetings, the Directors also approved various matters requiring the sanction of
the Board by way of circular resolutions.
The proceedings and resolutions concluded at each Board meeting are recorded in the minutes of the meetings,
which are kept in the Minutes Book at the Company’s registered office in Singapore.
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, the tentative dates for Board and Board Committee meetings will be
notified by the Company Secretary well in advance to ensure that each of the Directors is able to attend the
scheduled Board and/or Board Committee meetings including that of the AGM.
Continuing Education Programs
Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/conferences and shall as
such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of the latest development in statutory
laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate, in line with the changing business environment and
enhance their business acumen and professionalism in discharging their duties to the Group.
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by the Board members during the FYE 2023 as
listed below:
Name of Director Seminars/Conferences/Training Programmes Attended
Chan Kay Ding
(appointed on 22
February 2024)
Nil
Yang Chin Shen • Internal Policies, Procedures and Controls (IPPC)
• Anti-Money Laundering/ Combating Financing Of Terrorism
• Blockchain Technology
• Common Pitfalls in Valuation Review for Audits
• Pillar Two Model Rules
• Audit 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 and
Practice Statement 2) Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-12 International Tax Reform
Ho Pui Hold • 2023 Budget Seminar by Russell Bedford LC PLT
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II ; Leading For Impact (LIP) by Institute
of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
• Management of Cyber Risk by Ernst & Young
• Tax Webinar of Malaysia budget 2024 and E-invoice by CAS Tax Services Sdn Bhd
• SC’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with Audit Committee by Security
Commission
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
61
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
The Board will on continuing basis evaluate and determine the training needs of each Director, particularly
on relevant new law and regulations and essential practices for effective corporate governance and risk
management to enable the Directors to effectively discharge their duties. Saved as disclosed above, other
Directors of the Company were not able to select any suitable training programmes to attend during the financial
year due to their busy work schedule. However, they have constantly been updated with relevant reading
materials and technical updates, which will enhance their knowledge and equip them with the necessary skills
to effectively discharge their duties as Directors of the Company.
In addition to the above, the Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas of statutory
and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal Auditors and the Company
Secretary during the Board and/or Board Committees’ meetings.
Nomination Committee
The NC comprising exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The role of the NC is to assess and
recommend the candidates who have an optimal mix of qualifications, skills and experiences, including
core competencies to the Board. The NC is required to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board, each Board
Committees of the Company and also to assess the contribution of each Director in relation to the effectiveness
of the Board’s decision-making process on an annual basis.
The present members of the NC are follows:
Chairman 		
Ho Pui Hold			 - Independent Non-Executive Director
		
Members		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
Lew Seh Li 			 - Independent Non-Executive Director
The NC will meet at least once per year unless otherwise determined by the NC. During the FYE 2023, the
summary of activities undertaken by the NC included the following :
i) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Board, as a whole, Board Committees and individual Directors and make
appropriate recommendation to the Board; and
ii) Reviewed and recommended the re-election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in
accordance with the Company’s Constitution.
• Overall Board Effectiveness
Evaluation for Board, Board Committees and Individual Directors and Re-election of Directors
The NC is responsible for evaluating performance and effectiveness of the entire Board, the Board Committees
and individual Director on a yearly basis. The evaluation process is led by the NC Chairman and supported by
the Company Secretary Agent via questionnaires.
The effectiveness of the Board is assessed in the areas of the Board’s roles and responsibilities and composition,
attendance record, the intensity of participation at meetings, quality of interventions and special contributions.
Besides, the effectiveness of the Board Committees is assessed in terms of structure and processes, accountability
and responsibility as well as the effectiveness of the Chairman of the respective Board Committees.
Based on the annual assessment conducted during the FYE 2023, the NC was satisfied with the existing Board
composition and concluded that each Directors has the requisite competence to serve on the Board and
has sufficiently demonstrated their commitment to the Company in terms of time and participation during the
financial year under review. All assessments and evaluations carried out by the NC in discharge of its functions
were properly documented.
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, one-third (1/3) of the Directors are subject to retirement
for re-election by rotation at least once in every three (3) years at each AGM. Retiring Directors may offer
themselves for re-election. A director who is appointed during the financial period is, in accordance with the
Company’s Constitution, required to retire at the AGM following his appointment but is eligible for re-election by
the shareholders. NC which conducted the annual assessment, recommended to the Board the re-election of
retiring Directors at the Company’s forthcoming AGM.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
62
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
PART III – REMUNERATION
• Level and Composition of Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
The RC of the Company comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present members of the RC are as follow:
Chairman 		
Chan Kay Ding		 - Independent Non-Executive Chairman
						 (appointed on 22 February 2024)
		
Members		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
Ho Pui Hold			 - Independent Non-Executive Director
* Mr Keh Chuan Seng, the former Chairman of the RC, relinquished his membership due to his resignation of
Director in the Company on 22 February 2024.
The RC meet at least once a year and when required and is entrusted, among others, with reviewing the
remuneration packages and other benefits of the Executive Directors. The contribution, responsibilities and
performance of each Executive Director is taken into account when determining their respective remuneration
packages. However, the ultimate responsibility to approve the remuneration of these Directors remains with the
Board as a whole. The Executive Directors are not involved in any decisions with regard to their own remuneration.
During the financial year under review, the summary of activities undertaken by the RC included the following:
i) Reviewed and recommended the payment of Directors’ fees to the Board; and
ii) Reviewed and recommended the Executive Directors’ remuneration package.
• Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management
Directors’ Remuneration
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole. The
level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by other comparable organisations,
adjusted for the experience and levels of responsibilities undertaken by the particular Non-Executive Directors
concerned. The remuneration package for Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be deliberated by
the Board, with the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting in respect of his individual
remuneration. In addition, the Company also reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by all
the Non-Executive Directors in the course of their duties as Directors of the Company. The aggregate annual
Directors’ fees are to be approved by shareholders at the AGM based on recommendations of the Board.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors was determined fairly based on the performance and the profitability
of the Group as a whole. The Directors’ remuneration is at the discretion of the Board, taking into account the
comparative market rates that commensurate with the level of contribution, experience and participation of
each Director. The overriding principle adopted in setting the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors
by the RC is to ensure that the Company attracts and retains the appropriate Directors of the calibre needed
to run the Group effectively.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable to all Directors of the Company (both by the Company
and the Group) for the FYE 2023 are as follows:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
63
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Director
Company Group
Fees
(RMB’000)
Salaries and
other emoluments
(RMB’000)
Fees
(RMB’000)
Salaries and
other emoluments
(RMB’000)
Chan Kay Ding
(appointed on 22
February 2024)
Nil Nil Nil Nil
Shen Hengbao - - - 1,000
Yang Chin Shen 37 - 37 -
Ho Pui Hold 37 - 37 -
Keh Chuan Yee - - - 465
Lew Seh Li 37 - 37 -
Keh Chuan Seng
(resigned on 22 February
2024)
- - - -
Khoo Lay Tatt
(resigned on 6
December 2023)
37 - 37 -
Total 148 - 148 1,465
Remuneration of Top Five (5) Employees
The Board is aware of the need for transparency in the disclosure of its senior management’s remuneration.
Nonetheless, it is of the view that such disclosure could be detrimental to its business interests given the highly
competitive human resource environment in which the Group operates where intense headhunting for personnel
with the right expertise, knowledge and relevant working experience is the norm. As such, disclosure of specific
remuneration information could lead to recruitment and talent retention issues going forward.
The Board ensures that the remuneration of these personnel is commensurate with the level of responsibilities,
with due consideration in attracting, retaining and motivating these corporate key management to lead and
run the Group effectively.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Audit Committee
The AC is relied upon by the Board to, amongst others, provide advice in the areas of financial reporting,
external audit, internal control environment and internal audit process, review of related party transactions
as well as conflict of interest situation. The AC also undertakes to provide oversight on the risk management
framework of the Group.
Chairman of the AC
The current composition of AC comprises of three (3) members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive
Directors. The AC is chaired by an Independent Director and the positions of the Chairman of the Board and AC
are held by separate individuals. All members of the AC are relatively financially literate, while the Chairman of
AC is a member of Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
The composition, roles and responsibilities of the AC are set out under the AC Report in this Annual Report. The
duties and responsibilities of the AC are also available in the AC’s term of reference.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
64
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
Former Audit Partner
None of the Board members nor the AC were former audit partner of the External Auditors appointed by
the Group. The Company will observe a cooling-off period of at least three years in the event any potential
candidate to be appointed as a member of the AC was a audit partner of the external auditors of the Group.
Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The AC has established a transparent and appropriate relationship with the Company’s External Auditors. From
time to time, the Auditors will highlight matters that require the AC and the Board’s attention.
The AC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services provided by the
External Auditors. The AC has been explicitly accorded the power to communicate directly with both the
External Auditors and Internal Auditors. The terms of engagement for services provided by the External Auditors
are reviewed by the AC prior to submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and performance of the
External Auditors are reviewed annually by the AC.
To assess or determine the suitability and independence of the External Auditors, the AC has taken into
consideration of the following:
(i) the adequacy of the experience, competence and resources of the External Auditors;
(ii) the External Auditor’s ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely
manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
(iii) the nature of the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and fees paid for such services relative
to the audit fee; and
(iv) whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence
of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of the External Auditors.
The External Auditors are being invited to attend the AGM of the Company to response and reply to the
shareholders’ enquiries on the conduct of the statutory audit and the preparation and contents of the audited
financial statement.
The AC is satisfied with the competence and independence of the External Auditors for the financial year under
review. Having regard to this, the Board approved the AC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to
be sought at the AGM on the reappointment of Messrs. UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co., as the External Auditors of
the Company.
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
• Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system of internal
control, which covers not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls as well as risk
management, and the need to review its effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’ investments
and the Company’s assets. A RMC which comprises of two (2) Independent Non-Executive Directors and one
(1) Executive Director has been formed to assist the Board on the ongoing process of risk identifying.
The internal control system is designed to access current and emerging risks as well as, respond appropriately to
risks of the Group. As an effort to enhance the system of internal control, the RMC together with the assistance
of the outsourced professional Internal Audit firm, adopted on-going monitoring and review to the existing
risk management process in place within the various business operations, with the aim of formalising the risk
management functions across the Group. This function also acts as a source to assist the AC and the Board to
strengthen and improve current management and operating style in pursuit of best practices.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
65
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
As an ongoing process, significant business risks faced by the Group are identified and evaluated and
consideration is given on the potential impact of achieving the business objectives. This includes examining
principal business risks in critical areas, assessing the likelihood of material exposures and identifying the measures
taken to mitigate, avoid or eliminate these risks.
The information on the Group’s internal control is further elaborated on the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of this Annual Report.
• Internal Audit Functions
The Group has appointed an established professional Internal Audit firm, which reports to the AC and assists
the AC in reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems whilst ensuring that there is an appropriate
balance of controls and risks throughout the Group in achieving its business objectives.
Further details of the activities of the internal audit function are set out in the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control and Audit Committee Report in this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PART I – COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
• Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders
The Board always recognizes that effective communication with stakeholders is an essential requirement of the
Group’s sustainability. In view thereof, stakeholders are informed of all material business events and risks of the
Group in a factual, timely and widely available manner.
The Group relies on the following channels for effective communication with the shareholders and stakeholders:
i) Interim financial reports to provide updates on the Group’s operations and business developments on a
quarterly basis;
ii) Annual audited financial statements and annual report to provide an overview of the Group’s state of
governance, state of affairs, financial performance and cash flows for the relevant financial year;
iii) Corporate announcements to Bursa Securities on material developments of the Group, as and when
necessary and mandated by the MMLR; and
iv) AGM.
The practice of disclosure of information is to adopt the best practices recommended in the MCCG with regard
to strengthening engagement and communication with shareholders. It is not merely established to comply with
the MMLR of Bursa Securities.
The Company’s financial performance, major corporate developments and other relevant information are
promptly disseminated to shareholders and investors via announcements of its quarterly results, annual report,
corporate announcements to Bursa Securities and press conferences.
The Group also endeavour to provide additional disclosures of information on a voluntary basis, where necessary.
The management believes that consistently maintaining a high level of disclosure and extensive communication
is vital to shareholders and investors in making informed investment decisions.
Leverage on Information Technology for Effective Dissemination of Information
In its efforts to promote effective communication, the Board recognises that timely and equal dissemination of
consistent and accurate information are provided to them through public announcements made throughout
the year to Bursa Securities. The shareholders and members of the public are also invited to access the Group’s
website for the latest information on the Group.
The quarterly financial results are announced to the public via announcement in Bursa Securities, after the
Board’s approval. This is important in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public.
Shareholders and investors may also forward their queries to the Company via email to contact@hbglob.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
66
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
• Encourage Shareholders’ Participation at General Meeting
The Board has oversight that the General meetings are a crucial mechanism as they provide the Board an
important forum for shareholders communication. At each AGM, the Board encourages shareholders to
participate in question-and-answer sessions in order to communicate their views and seek clarifications.
As recommended by the MCCG, the notice of AGM will be despatched to shareholders at least twenty eight
(28) days before the AGM, to allow shareholders to have additional time to go through the Annual Report and
make the necessary attendance and voting arrangements. The notice of AGM, which sets out the business to
be transacted at the AGM, is also published in a major local newspaper. The Board will ensure that each item of
special business included in the notices of the AGM or extraordinary general meeting is accompanied by a full
explanation of the effects of any proposed resolution.
At the AGM, the Board will brief the shareholders on the progress and performance of the Group and the
shareholders are encouraged to participate in the questions and answers session thereat, where they will be given
the opportunity to raise questions or seek more information during the AGM. The Board‘s members, Company
Secretary, senior management and external auditors will present to address queries during the meeting. Informal
discussions between the Directors, senior management staff, and the shareholders and investors are always
active before and after the general meetings.
Attendance of Directors at General Meetings
The tentative dates of the AGM will be discussed and fixed by the Board in advance to ensure that each of the
Directors is able to make the necessary arrangement to attend the AGM.
At the Sixteenth (16th) AGM of the Company held on 23 June 2023, all Directors were present to engage directly
with shareholders and to be held accountable for their stewardship of the Company.
Poll Voting
In line with Paragraph 8.29A of the MMLR, the Company will ensure that any resolution set out in the notice of
any general meeting, or in any notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved
at any general meeting, is voted by poll. At the same time, the Company will appoint at least one (1) scrutineer
to validate the votes cast at the general meeting.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Saved as disclosed above, the Board is of the view that the Group has complied with and shall remain committed
to attaining the highest possible standards through the continuous adoption of the principles and best practices
set out in MCCG and all other applicable laws, where applicable and appropriate.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
67
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of HB Global Limited (“the Company”) is pleased to present the Audit
Committee Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Composition
The Audit Committee (“AC”) consisted of three (3) members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive
Directors. The present members of AC are as follows: -
Chairman		
Yang Chin Shen - Independent Non-Executive Director
		
Members		
Ho Pui Hold			 - Independent Non-Executive Director
Lew Seh Li 			 - Independent Non-Executive Director
The Chairman of the AC, Mr Yang Chin Shen is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. The current
composition of the AC is in compliance with Paragraph 15.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing
Requirement”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance.
Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the AC are as follows:
1. Membership
(i) The AC shall be appointed by the Board.
(ii) It shall comprise at least three (3) members who must be Non-Executive Directors, with a majority of them
being Independent Directors.
(iii) The Chairman of the AC shall be appointed by the AC amongst the members of the AC themselves and
shall be an Independent Director.
(iv) If the number of members is reduced to below three (3) as a result of resignation or death of a member,
or for any other reason(s), the AC shall, within three (3) months of that event, appoint amongst such other
directors, a new member to make up the minimum number required herein.
(v) At least one (1) member of the AC:
(a) must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”); or
(b) if he/she is not a member of the MIA, he/she must have at least three (3) years working experience and
:-
• he/she must have passed the examinations specified in Part I of the 1st Schedule of the Accountants
Act 1967; or
• he/she must be a member of one of the associations of accountants specified in Part II of the 1st
Schedule of the Accountants Act 1967.
(c) must possess such qualifications as may from time to time be prescribed by the Bursa Securities.
(vi) An alternate director is not eligible for membership in the AC.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
68
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
2. Authority
The AC is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference. The AC shall have
unlimited access to both the internal auditors and external auditors as well as all employees of the Group.
The AC shall also have the authority to obtain independent legal or other professional advice and to secure
attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
3. Duties and Responsibilities
(i) To review with the internal auditor their audit plans, the reports and the internal control system.
(ii) To review the adequacy of scope, functions and resources of the internal audit functions and that it has
the necessary authority to carry out its work.
(iii) To review the internal audit programme, processes, the results of the internal audit programme, processes
or investigation undertaken and whether or not appropriate action is taken on the recommendations of
the internal audit function.
(iv) To review the assistance and cooperation given by the Company’s management to the external auditor
and internal auditor.
(v) To review the plans of the external auditor of the Company, and their reports arising from the audit.
(vi) To review the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
(vii) To review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
(viii)To review the quarterly unaudited condensed financial statements and the year end financial statements
of the Group before submission to the Board, focusing particularly on:
• any changes in accounting policies and practices;
• any significant and unusual results or events; and
• compliance with accounting standards and other legal requirements.
(ix) To review any related party transaction and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Group
including any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions of management
integrity.
(x) To review with the external auditor their audit report, management letter and Management’s response.
(xi) To recommend to the Board the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor and internal
auditor, audit fee, and where applicable, their resignation and dismissal.
(xii) To undertake such other responsibilities as may be agreed to by the Committee and the Board of
Directors.
4. Meetings
(i) The AC shall hold at least four (4) meetings a year and such additional meeting(s) as the Chairman of
the AC shall decide in order to fulfill its duties.
(ii) Apart from the members of the AC who will be present at the meetings, the AC may invite any member
of the Board of Directors, the Management, staff and representatives of the external auditor and internal
auditor to be present at the meeting of the AC.
(iii) A quorum shall consist of not less than two (2) members. The majority of members present must be
Independent Non-Executive Directors.
(iv) Notices of not less than seven (7) days shall be given for the calling of any meeting to members.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
69
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
(v) Matters raised and tabled at all meetings shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members.
(vi) A resolution in writing, signed by majority of the AC members present in Malaysia for the time being
entitled to received notice of meeting of the AC, shall be as valid and effective as if it had been
deliberated and decided upon at a meeting of the AC.
(vii) Proceedings of all meetings held and resolutions passed as referred to in clause (vi) above shall be
recorded by the Company Secretary and kept at the Group’s registered office.
(viii)Every member of the Board shall have the right at any time to inspect the minutes of all meetings held
and resolutions passed by the AC and the reports submitted thereat.
(ix) The external auditors shall have the right to attend and be heard at any meeting and shall attend
before the AC when so required by the AC.
(x) Upon the request of the external auditors, the Chairman shall convene a meeting to consider any
matters that the external auditors recommend should be brought to the attention of the Directors or
shareholders of the Company.
(xi) Where necessary, the AC shall meet with the external auditors without the presence of the executive
board members of the Group.
A copy of the terms of reference of the AC can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.hbglob.com.
Attendance of Meetings
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the AC held 5 meetings. Details of the attendance of
committee members are as follow:
Name Attendance Percentage of Attendance
Yang Chin Shen 5/5 100%
Ho Pui Hold 5/5 100%
Lew Seh Li 5/5 100%
The meetings were structured through the use of agendas which were distributed to the AC with sufficient
notification. The meetings were of adequate length to allow the AC to accomplish its agenda with sufficient
time to discuss emerging issues.
The Company Secretary was present at all the meetings. Upon invitation, the executive Board members,
members of management as well as representatives of the external auditors and internal auditors also attended
specific AC meetings to facilitate direct communication and to provide clarifications on audit issues and the
operations of the Group.
The minutes of each AC meeting were recorded and tabled for confirmation at the next following AC meeting.
Summary of Activities
The main activities that were undertaken by the AC during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 include
the following:
i) Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial of the Group and the Company including the announcements
pertaining thereto, before recommending to the Board for their approval and release of the Group’s results
to Bursa Securities;
ii) Reviewed with external auditors on their audit planning memorandum on the statutory audit of the Group
for the financial year ended 31 December 2023;
iii) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Group before recommending to the Board for
their approval and release of the Group’s results to Bursa Securities;
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
70
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
iv) Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors of their audit findings inclusive of system evaluation, audit
fees, issues raised, audit recommendations and management’s response to these recommendations;
v) Evaluated the performance of the external auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 covering
areas such as calibre, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance
and independence and considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditors;
vi) Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope and functions of the internal audit plan;
vii) Reviewed the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings of internal audit through the
review of the internal audit reports tabled and management responses thereof;
viii) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system;
ix) Reviewed the proposed fees for the external auditors and internal auditors in respect of their audit of the
Company and the Group;
x) Reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Company or
the Group;
xi) Reviewed the Company’s compliance with the Listing Requirements, applicable Approved Accounting
Standards and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements;
xii) Reviewed the AC Report and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control before recommending
to the Board for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report; and
xiii) Report to the Board on its activities and significant findings and results.
Independence of the AC
The Company recognised the need to uphold independence of its external auditors and that no possible
conflict of interest whatsoever should arise. Currently, none of the members of the Board nor the AC of the
Company were former audit partners of the external auditors appointed by the Group. The Company will
observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years in the event any potential candidate to be appointed as
a member of the AC was an audit partner of the external auditors of the Group.
Training and Financial Literacy of the AC Members
Collectively, the members of the AC have the relevant experience and expertise in finance and accounting,
and have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of reference of the AC. The qualification and
experience of the individual AC members are disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Profiles in this Annual Report.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the members of the AC had undertaken the relevant training
programmes to keep themselves abreast of the latest development in accounting and auditing standards,
statutory laws, regulations and best practices to enable them to effectively discharge their duties. The list of
trainings attended is disclosed in the Annual Report.
Compliance with Applicable Financial Reporting Standards
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which provide reasonable accuracy at any
time of the financial position of the Group, and for ensuring that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act of Singapore, Cap.50 (“the Act”) and applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia.
The Board is assisted by the AC in fulfilling the statutory and fiduciary responsibilities in the assessment and
evaluation of the Group’s management and financial reports of the performance of business, accounting
policies, risk and internal controls.
The AC serves as an independent party in reviewing the financial information presented by Management
before disseminating to all shareholders and stakeholders. It ensures that the financial statements comply with
applicable accounting standards and also provide direction over the internal audit function and manages the
relationship with the external auditors to ensure their independence from Management.
The interim financial reports, annual audited financial statements and annual report of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2023 are prepared in accordance with all applicable accounting policies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
71
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
Internal Audit Functions and Activities
The Group has outsourced its Internal Audit Function to an established professional Internal Audit firm,
namely CAS Consulting Services Sdn. Bhd. (“Internal Auditor” or “CASC”). CASC is staffed by a total of four
(4) professionals and is led by Mr. Jeremy Kong, the Executive Director of CASC. He is a fellow member of the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“ACCA”), the ASEAN Chartered Professional Accountants
(“ASEAN CPA”), the MIA and the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (“IIAM”). He holds a practicing
certificate issued by the MIA and ACCA and an audit license issued by Ministry of Finance in Malaysia. CASC is
independent of activities related to the Company’s business operations and performs its duties in accordance
with standards set by relevant professional bodies, namely Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Internal Auditor reports to the AC and assists the AC in reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control
systems whilst ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of controls and risks throughout the Group in
achieving its business objectives.
Internal audit provides independent assessment on the effectiveness and efficiency of internal controls utilising
a global audit methodology and tool to support the corporate governance framework and an efficient and
effective risk management framework to provide assurance to the AC.
The AC approves the internal audit plan during the first AC meeting of each financial year. Any subsequent
changes to the internal audit plan are approved by the AC. The scope of internal audit covers the audits of
all units and operations, including subsidiaries as stated in the letter of engagement.
The cost incurred for the Internal Audit function during the financial year is approximately RM10,000.
During the financial year 31 December 2023, the internal auditors performed review on the Purchase and
Payment cycle of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
72
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Introduction
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Listing Requirements, the Board of Directors of HB Global Limited is pleased
to report on its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, which provides an overview of the nature
and state of risk management and internal controls of Group during the financial year under review and up to
the date of approval of this statement by the Board. This statement is guided by the latest Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers.
Board Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Group’s internal control and risk management systems
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets and for reviewing the adequacy and integrity
of such systems. The Board ensures the effectiveness of such systems through regular quarterly reviews. These
responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee which is empowered by their terms of reference which
had been approved by the Board.
Due to inherent limitations in the systems of internal control and risk management, such systems can only manage
rather than eliminate all risks of failure to achieve business objectives, and as such, can only provide reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board through its Audit Committee has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this process includes enhancing the risk management
and internal control system as and when there are changes to the business environment and regulatory
requirements. The process is reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee on a periodic basis.
Management assists the Board in the implementation of the Board’s policies and procedures on risk and control
by identifying and assessing the risks faced by the Group, and in the design and operation of suitable internal
controls to mitigate these risks identified.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control system in place for the year under review
and up to the date of issuance of the annual report is adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’
investment, the interests of customers, regulators, employees and the Group’s assets.
KEY FEATURES OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key features of the internal control systems which are operated with the assistance of the management are
described under the following headings:
a) Risk Management Framework
The Board recognises the need for effective risk management and to maintain a sound system of internal
control. Risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operations, and this process goes
through a review process by the Board. Discussions have been conducted during the year involving different
levels of management to identify and address risks faced by the Group. These risks were summarised
and included in the Group’s risk management report. The Group has an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group throughout the financial year under
review by the management. This is to ensure that all high risks are adequately addressed at various levels
within the Group.
b) System of Internal Control
The Board is committed to maintaining a sound internal control structure to govern the manner in which the
Group and its employees conduct themselves. The key elements of controls are:
(i) the responsibilities of the Board and the management are clearly defined in the organisational structure
to ensure the effective discharge of the roles and responsibilities of the parties in overseeing the conduct
of the Group’s business;
(ii) the formation of operational policies and procedures by the management with a view to establishing
group wide operational standards in order for all operating units to work cohesively towards achieving
the business objectives of the Group. For accounting systems and financial processes, efforts are being
taken to ensure consistency in the Group as a whole;
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
73
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
(iii) frequent on-site visits to the operating units by senior management so as to acquire a first-hand view on
various operational matters and to address the issues accordingly;
(iv) the Board gathers and reviews key financial and operating statistics from time to time and constantly
keeps track and monitor the achievement of the Group’s performance; and
(v) the Audit Committee reviews on a quarterly basis of the quarterly unaudited financial results to monitor
the Group’s progress towards achieving the Group’s business objectives. Authority is given to the Audit
Committee members to investigate and report on any areas of improvement for the betterment of the
Group.
(c) Internal Audit Function
The Group’s Internal Audit Function assists the Board and Audit Committee by providing an independent
assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to CAS Consulting Services Sdn. Bhd., an independent
professional internal audit firm. The Internal Auditors supports the Audit Committee, and by extension to the
Board by providing independent assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control.
The internal audit plan which reflects the identified risk was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
All reports from the internal audit reviews, and corrective actions undertaken by Management were
presented to the Audit Committee. None of the weaknesses noted may resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that have any material impact to the financial statements of the Group.
In performing the internal audit review, the Internal Auditors refer to and are guided by The International
Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) that includes the Definition of Internal Auditing, the Code of Ethics
and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing issued by the Institute of
Internal Auditors.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the
Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. Based on their review, the external auditors have
reported to the Board that nothing had come to their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the
Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls and risk management, except
for some improvement points highlighted to the Board in regards to certain internal control deficiencies. The
Board has responded that the Company and the Group will improve on those internal controls.
Management’s Assurance
The Executive Directors, representing the management, have given reasonable assurance to the Board that
the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are adequate and effective, in all material aspects,
based on the risk management and internal controls adopted by the Group and similar assurance given by the
respective heads of operations.
Board Conclusion
For the financial year under review, there were no significant internal control deficiencies or material weaknesses
resulting in material losses or contingencies requiring disclosure in the Annual Report. The Board is of the view that
the existing Group’s system of risk management and internal control is adequate to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Group’s assets. However, the Board is also cognisant of the fact that the Group’s system of
risk management and internal control practices must continuously evolve to meet the changing and challenging
business environment. Therefore, the Board will, when necessary, put in place appropriate action plans to further
enhance the Group’s system of internal control and risk management framework.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
74
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
OTHER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS PURSUANT TO THE LISTING
REQUIREMENTS OF BURSA SECURITIES
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS FROM CORPORATE EXERCISE
Private Placement of up to 10% of the total number of issued shares of Company
The Company had on 28 June 2022 proposed to undertake a private placement of up to 77,001,000 new
ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued shares in the Company (“Private Placement up to 10%”).
4,280,000 Placement Shares have been listed on 6 July 2023 via the Private Placement up to 10%, raising a
total proceed amounting to RM500,760 for the Company.
The summary of the utilisation of proceeds were as follows:-
								 RMB’000 RM’000
Balance @ 1.1.2023				 1,709 1,080
Proceeds from issuance of 4,280,000 Placement Shares			 776 501
Expenses for private placement				 (5) (3)
Working Capital				 (2,034) (1,290)
Business projects/investments				 - -
Balance @ 31.12.2023				 446 288
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the external auditors by the Company and the
Group respectively for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
								 Company Group
								 (RMB’000) (RMB’000)
Audit Services Rendered 				 31 560
Non-Audit Services Rendered				 0 0
Total						 31 560
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiary involving Directors’ and
major shareholders’ interests for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
4. CONTRACTS RELATING TO LOAN
There were no material contracts relating to loans entered into by the Company involving Directors and
major shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
5. RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE AND TRADING NATURE
There were no material recurrent related party transactions of a revenue and trading nature for the financial
year ended 31 December 2023.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
75
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
50
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The directors present their statement to the members together with the audited consolidated financial
statements of HB Global Limited (the “Company” and collectively with its subsidiaries, the “Group”) for
the financial year ended 31 December 2023 and the statement of financial position and statement of
changes in equity of the Company as at 31 December 2023 and for the financial year ended 31 December
2023.
Opinion of the directors
In the opinion of the directors,
(a) the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of financial position and
statement of changes in equity of the Company are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of
the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and the financial
performance, changes in equity and cash flows of the Group and the changes in equity of the
Company for the year then ended; and
(b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able
to pay its debts as and when they fall due. This is based on the following premises:
(i) The Company’s substantial shareholder, Mr Keh Chuan Seng, will provide such financial
support as and when necessary to enable the Group and the Company to fulfil their financial
obligations as and when they fall due; and
(ii) An arrangement has been made with a bank to make monthly payments of RMB100,000 for
one of its bank loans.
Directors
The directors of the Company in office at the date of this statement are:
Shen Hengbao - Chief Executive Officer
Yang Chin Shen
Ho Pui Hold
Keh Chuan Yee
Lew Seh Li
Chan Kay Ding (Appointed on 22 February 2024)
Arrangements to enable directors to acquire shares and debentures
Neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year did there subsist any arrangement whose
object was to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of
shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
76
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
51
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Directors’ interests in shares and debentures
According to the register of directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 164 of the
Singapore Companies Act 1967 (the Act), none of the directors holding office at the end of the financial
year had any interests in the shares or debentures of the Company or its related corporations.
Share options
There were no share options granted during the financial year to subscribe for unissued shares of the
Company and its subsidiaries.
There were no shares were issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of options to take up
unissued shares of the Company and its subsidiaries.
There were no unissued shares of the Company and its subsidiaries under option at the end of the financial
year.
Audit committee
The members of the Audit Committee (“AC”) at the date of this statement are as follows:
Yang Chin Shen - Chairman
Ho Pui Hold – Member
Lew Seh Li – Member
The Audit Committee has carried out its function in accordance with Section 201B(5) of the Act, Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and the Code of Corporate
Governance.
The primary duties and responsibilities of the AC are as follows:
(i) To review the significant financial reporting issues and judgements so as to ensure the integrity of
the financial statements of the Company and any announcement relating to the Company’s
financial performance;
(ii) To review at least annually the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's internal controls and
risk management systems;
(iii) To review the assurance from the CEO and the CFO on the financial records and financial
statements;
(iv) To make recommendations to the Board on: (a) the proposals to the shareholders on the
appointment and removal of external auditors; and (b) the remuneration and terms of engagement
of the external auditors;
(v) To review the adequacy, effectiveness, independence, scope and results of the external audit and
the Company’s internal audit function; and
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
77
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
52
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Audit committee (continued)
(vi) reviewing the policy and arrangements for concerns about possible statements of the Company
improprieties in financial reporting or other matters to be safely raised, independently investigated
and appropriately followed up on. The Company publicly discloses, and clearly communicates to
employees, the existence of a whistle-blowing policy and procedures for raising such concerns.
The AC comprises at least three directors, all of whom are non-executive and the majority of whom,
including the AC Chairman, are independent. At least two members, including the AC Chairman, have
recent and relevant accounting or related financial management expertise or experience.
The AC does not comprise former partners or directors of the Company's existing auditing firm or
auditing corporation: (a) within a period of two years commencing on the date of their ceasing to be a
partner of the auditing firm or director of the auditing corporation; and in any case, (b) for as long as they
have any financial interest in the auditing firm or auditing corporation.
The primary reporting line of the internal audit function is to the AC, which also decides on the
appointment, termination and remuneration of the head of the internal audit function. The internal audit
function has unfettered access to all the company's documents, records, properties and personnel,
including the AC, and has appropriate standing within the Company.
The AC meets with the external auditors, and with the internal auditors, in each case without the presence
of Management, at least annually.
Further details regarding the AC are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement and Audit
Committee Report in the Annual Report of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
78
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
53
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Independent auditor
The independent auditor, UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co, has expressed its willingness to accept re-
appointment.
On behalf of the Board of Directors,
Chan Kay Ding Keh Chuan Yee
Director Director
30 April 2024
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
79
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
STATUTORY DECLARATION
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
54
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statutory Declaration
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Pursuant to Paragraph 9.27 of the Main Market Listing Manual Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad:
I, Mr Keh Chuan Yee, being the director primarily responsible for the financial management of HB Global
Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying consolidated financial statements of
the Group and the statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity of the Company, are
in my opinion correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true
and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declaration Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above mentioned
At Malaysia on 30 April 2024
This day of 30 April 2024
Keh Chuan Yee
Before me
Commissioner for Oaths
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
80
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
55
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HB Global Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of HB Global Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries
(collectively the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group
and the statement of financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2023, the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated
statement of cash flows of the Group and the statement of changes in equity of the Company for the year
then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information.
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of
financial position and statement of changes in equity of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act 1967 (the Act) and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards
(International)[(SFRS(I)s)] which are simultaneously compliant with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) so as to give a true
and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the
Company as at 31 December 2023 and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes
in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group and the changes in equity of the Company for the year
ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Accounting
and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public
Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern
We draw attention to Note 1.2 to the financial statement which indicate as at 31 December 2023, the
Group had net current liabilities of RMB39,208,000. The Group also incurred a net loss of
RMB47,894,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. As stated in Note 1.2, these events or
conditions, along with other matters as set forth in Note 1.2, indicated that material uncertainty exists that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our opinion is not
modified in respect of this matter.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
81
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
56
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HB Global Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of
our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Material Uncertainty
Related to Going Concern section, we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit
matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter Our audit procedures to address the matter
Impairment of property, plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets
As at 31 December 2023, property, plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets with carrying
amounts of RMB169,944,000 and RMB31,620,000
constituted approximately 76.4% and 14.2% of the
total assets of the Group respectively.
During the current financial year, the Group carried
out a review of the recoverable amounts of its
property, plant and equipment and right-of-use
assets due to possible indicators for impairment.
Due to the impairment review involves significant
estimates in the key underlying assumptions to be
applied, we have determined this area to be key audit
matter.
These significant estimates are disclosed in Note 3.2
to the financial statements.
Our audit procedures focused on evaluating the
appropriateness and adequacy of the
impairment assessment for property, plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets. These
procedures included:
• Obtaining an understanding of the
impairment review done by management;
• Comparing actual property, plant and
equipment replacement costs to previous
costs and the fair value of the right-of-use
assets to market data and assessing the
quantum of available headroom and:
• Challenging the key assumptions used by
management in the valuation process and
impairment review;
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
82
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
57
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HB Global Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
Key Audit Matter Our audit procedures to address the matter
Impairment of property, plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets
• Assessed the appropriateness of the
methodologies applied and the
reasonableness of the key inputs,
adjustment factors and assumptions applied
by the Group’s external valuer in their
determination of the fair value less cost of
disposal of its property, plant and
equipment, as applicable.
Other information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all the sections
of the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and SFRS(I)s which are simultaneously compliant with IFRSs
issued by the IASB, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient
to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or
disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the
preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
83
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
58
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HB Global Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error,
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as
a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
84
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
59
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HB Global Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate
threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company have
been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Xu Shuanghong.
UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
30 April 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HB GLOBAL LIMITED (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
85
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
60
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2023
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and bank balances 4 446 2,231 176 1,709
Trade and other receivables 5 13,447 22,287 19 9
Prepayments 6 - 34 - -
Inventories 7 6,879 11,078 - -
Income tax recoverable - - - -
20,772 35,630 195 1,718
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 8 - - 79,537 79,537
Invesment properties 9 - - - -
Intangible assets 10 31,620 39,326 - -
Property, plant and equipment 11 169,944 195,352 34 45
201,564 234,678 79,571 79,582
Total assets 222,336 270,308 79,766 81,300
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 12 12,892 14,166 6,394 6,668
Amounts due to directors 13 2,697 2,406 497 205
Bank borrowings 14 44,391 48,491 - -
59,980 65,063 6,891 6,873
Total liabilities 59,980 65,063 6,891 6,873
NET ASSETS 162,356 205,245 72,875 74,427
Group Company
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
86
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
61
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2023
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
EQUITY
Share capital 16 260,129 259,349 260,129 259,349
Capital reserve 17 (17,106) (17,106) - -
Currency translation reserve 18 1,323 (741) (446) (549)
Statutory reserve 19 76,090 76,090 - -
Accumulated losses (158,080) (112,250) (186,808) (184,373)
162,356 205,342 72,875 74,427
Non-controlling interests - (97) - -
Total equity 162,356 205,245 72,875 74,427
Company
Group
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (cont’d)
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
87
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
62
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Note 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Restated
Revenue 20 80,049 76,067
Cost of sales (78,995) (85,498)
Gross profit/(loss) 1,054 (9,431)
Other income 21 7,094 14,148
Selling and distribution expenses (676) (539)
Administrative expenses (23,082) (31,607)
Impairment loss on financial assets (1,279) (6,320)
Other expenses 22 (27,239) (131,029)
Finance costs 23 (1,712) (2,920)
Loss before income tax 24 (45,840) (167,698)
Income tax expense 25 - -
Loss for the year (45,840) (167,698)
Other comprehensive loss
Item that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences arising from consolidation (2,054) (3,302)
Total comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (47,894) (171,000)
Loss attributable to:
Owners of the Company (45,830) (165,538)
Non-controlling interests (10) (2,160)
(45,840) (167,698)
Total comprehensive loss attributable to:
Owners of the Company (47,884) (168,836)
Non-controlling interests (10) (2,164)
(47,894) (171,000)
Loss per share (RMB cents per share)
Basic 27 (5.88) (21.29)
Diluted 27 (5.88) (21.29)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
88
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
63
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Group
Attributable
Currency to owners Non-
Share Capital translation Statutory Accumulated of the controlling Total
capital reserve reserve reserve loss Company interests equity
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Balance at 1 January 2023 259,349 (17,106) (741) 76,090 (112,250) 205,342 (97) 205,245
Loss for the year - - - - (45,830) (45,830) (10) (45,840)
Other comprehensive loss
Currency translation differences
arising from consolidation - - 2,054 - - 2,054 2,054
Total comprehensive loss for the year - - 2,054 - (45,830) (43,776) (10) (43,786)
Issue of new ordinary shares under
private placement 780 - - - - 780 - 780
Effect of disposal of a subsidiary - - 10 - - 10 107 117
Balance at 31 December 2023 260,129 (17,106) 1,323 76,090 (158,080) 162,356 - 162,356
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
89
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
64
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Group
Attributable
Currency to owners Non-
Share Capital translation Statutory Accumulated of the controlling Total
capital reserve reserve reserve loss Company interests equity
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Balance at 1 January 2022 257,463 (17,106) (375) 76,090 53,288 369,360 (1,469) 367,891
Loss for the year - - - - (165,538) (165,538) (2,160) (167,698)
Other comprehensive loss
Currency translation differences
arising from consolidation - - (3,298) - - (3,298) (4) (3,302)
Total comprehensive loss for the year - - (3,298) - (165,538) (168,836) (2,164) (171,000)
Issue of new ordinary shares under
private placement 1,886 - - - - 1,886 - 1,886
Effect of deconsolidation of a subsidiary - - 2,932 - - 2,932 3,536 6,468
Balance at 31 December 2022 259,349 (17,106) (741) 76,090 (112,250) 205,342 (97) 205,245
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
90
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
65
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statements of changes in equity
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Company
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Currency
Share translation Accumulated Total
capital reserve losses equity
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
At 1 January 2022 257,463 (370) (89,306) 167,787
Loss for the year - - (95,067) (95,067)
Other comprehensive loss
Currency translation differences arising
from consolidation - (179) - (179)
Total comprehensive loss for the year - (179) (95,067) (95,246)
Issue private placement of
new ordinary shares 1,886 - - 1,886
At 31 December 2022 and
1 January 2023 259,349 (549) (184,373) 74,427
Loss for the year - - (2,435) (2,435)
Other comprehensive loss
Currency translation differences arising
from consolidation - 103 103
Total comprehensive loss for the year - 103 (2,435) (2,332)
Issue of new ordinary shares
under private placement 780 - - 780
At 31 December 2023 260,129 (446) (186,808) 72,875
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
91
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
66
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Note 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss before income tax (45,840) (167,698)
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of investment properties 24 - 42
Amortisation of right-of-use assets 24 1,008 2,078
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24 12,858 14,354
Gain on disposal of derecognition of a subsidiary 8.1, 8.2 (321) (2,372)
Other receivables written off 22 1,093 -
Intangible assets written off 22 - 41,613
Impairment loss on intangible assets 22 6,698 -
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 22 19,279 2,917
Impairment loss on trade receivables 22 - 224
Inventories written down 7 40 212
Prepayments written off 22 - 85,663
Property, plant and equipment written off 22 2 439
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables 21 - (615)
Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 21 (6,695) (7,187)
Interest income 21 - (1)
Interest expense 23 1,712 2,920
Unrealised foreign exchange loss/(gain) 1,262 (18)
Operating loss before working capital changes (8,904) (27,429)
Changes in working capital
Trade and other receivables 5,752 20,886
Contract assets - 1,988
Inventories 4,159 (3,443)
Amount due to director 291 -
Trade and other payables (52) 3,952
Cash generated from/(used) in operations 1,246 (4,046)
Interest received - 1
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 1,246 (4,045)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
92
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
67
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Note 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Cash flows from investing activities
Disposal of subsidiary 8.1 - -
Net cash inflow from deconsolidation of a subsidiary 8.2 - 17,965
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 (53) (186)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (53) 17,779
Cash flows from financing activities
Advances from directors - 3,807
Bank deposit pledged - 614
Proceeds from issue of new ordinary shares under private placement 780 1,194
Proceeds from bank loans 17,250 -
Repayment of borrowings from a shareholder of company - (2)
Repayment of bank loans (21,350) (2,653)
Repayment of principal portion of lease liabilities - (129)
Interest paid (1,712) (2,920)
Net cash used in financing activities (5,032) (89)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (3,839) 13,645
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2,054 (2,122)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,231 (9,292)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4 446 2,231
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
93
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
68
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
These notes form an integral part of and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial
statements.
1. General
1.1 Corporate information
HB Global Limited (the Company) is incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of
Singapore with its registered office located at 80 Robinson Road, #17-02, Singapore 068898.
The address of the principal place of business of the Group is Weifang Road, Juxian Industry
Garden, Ju County, Rizhao City, Shandong Province, People’s Republic of China (“PRC”).
The Company has another registered office at Level 5, Block B, Dataran PHB, Saujana
Resort Section U2, 40150, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. The Company is listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
The principal activities of the Company are those relating to investment holding. The
principal activities of the subsidiaries are described in Note 8 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial
year.
The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were authorised for
issue by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2024.
1.2 Fundamental accounting concept
The Group and the Company incurred a loss of RMB47,894,000 (2022: RMB171,000,000)
and RMB2,435,000 (2022: RMB95,067,000) and as at that date, the Group and the
Company’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by RMB39,208,000 (2022:
RMB29,433,000) and RMB6,696,000 (2022: RMB5,155,000) respectively.
As at 31 December 2023, included in the Group’s current liabilities are bank loans of
RMB44,391,000 (2022: RMB48,491,000) which are contractually due for repayment within
12 months from the end of the reporting period. Among these, a bank loan with a remaining
principal amount of RMB4,500,000 was due on 28 June 2023, and the Group missed the
maturity date. As a result, a higher interest rate has been charged to the Group. Should the
Group not be able to rollover its existing bank loans or alternative refinancing of the bank
loans be unsuccessful, the Group and the Company may not have sufficient cash to fulfil
obligations at the relevant repayment dates. This may impede continuation of the Group’s
current business operation.
Notwithstanding these conditions, the financial statements have been prepared on a going
concern basis based on the following premises:
• The Company’s substantial shareholder, Mr Keh Chuan Seng, will provide such financial
support as and when necessary to enable the Group and the Company to fulfil their
financial obligations as and when they fall due; and
• An arrangement has been made with a bank to make monthly payments of RMB100,000
for one of its bank loans.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
94
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
69
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
1. General (continued)
1.2 Fundamental accounting concept (continued)
If the Group and the Company are unable to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future, the Group and the Company may be unable to discharge their liabilities
in the normal course of business and adjustments may have to be made to reflect the situation
that assets may need to be realised other than in the normal course of business and at amounts
which could differ significantly from the amounts at which they are currently recorded in the
statements of financial position. In addition, the Group and the Company may have to
reclassify non-current assets as current assets and non-current liabilities. No such
adjustments have been made to these financial statements.
2. Material accounting policy information
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Singapore Financial
Reporting Standards (International) [“SFRS(I)s”] which are simultaneously compliant with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except as disclosed
in the accounting policies below.
The Group’s principal operations are conducted in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”)
and hence the financial statements are presented in renminbi (“RMB”), which is the
functional currency of the Company. All financial information presented in RMB is rounded
to the nearest thousand (“RMB’000”), unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with SFRS(I) requires management to
exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. It also
requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions. Although these estimates are
based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may
ultimately differ from those estimates. The areas where estimates and assumptions are
significant or critical to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial
statements.
2.2 Adoption of new and amended standards and interpretations
On 1 January 2023, the Group adopted the new or amended SFRS(I) and Interpretations of
SFRS(I) (“INT SFRS(I)”) that are mandatory for application for the financial year. Changes
to the Group’s accounting policies have been made as required, in accordance with the
transitional provisions in the respective SFRS(I) and INT SFRS(I).
The adoption of these new or amended SFRS(I) and INT SFRS(I) did not result in substantial
changes to the Group’s accounting policies and had no material effect on the amounts
reported for the current or prior financial years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
95
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
70
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.3 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and
its subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The financial statements of the
subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for
the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies are applied to like
transactions and events in similar circumstances. Detailed information on the subsidiaries is
disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.
The Group was formed as a result of a restructuring exercise undertaken on 25 September
2009 for the purpose of the Group’s listing on the main market of Bursa Securities. The
acquisition of 100% equity in the subsidiary, namely Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd.
pursuant to the restructuring exercise under common control has been accounted for using
the pooling-of-interest method. Under the pooling-of-interest method, the consolidated
financial statements of the Group have been presented as if the Group structure had existed
immediately after the restructuring has been in existence since the earliest financial year
presented. The assets and liabilities were brought into the consolidated statement of financial
position at their existing carrying amounts.
All intragroup balances, income and expenses and unrealised gains and losses resulting from
intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group
obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in
a deficit balance.
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at
their fair values at the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses
in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are received. Any contingent
consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the
acquisition date.
Non-controlling interest represents the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or
indirectly, to owners of the Group. They are shown separately in the statements of financial
position, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and statements of changes in
equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interest based on
their respective interests in a subsidiary, even if the subsidiary incurred losses and the losses
allocated exceed the non-controlling interest in the subsidiary’s equity.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
96
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
71
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.3 Basis of consolidation (continued)
Consolidation of the subsidiaries in the PRC is based on the subsidiaries’ financial statements
prepared in accordance with SFRS(I). Profits reflected in the financial statements prepared
in accordance with SFRS(I) may differ from those reflected in the PRC statutory financial
statements of the subsidiaries, prepared for PRC reporting purposes. In accordance with the
relevant laws and regulations, profits available for distribution by the PRC subsidiaries are
based on the amounts stated in the PRC statutory financial statements respectively.
2.4 Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an investee controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company
controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement
with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
In the Company's separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for
at cost less impairment losses.
2.5 Investment properties
Investment properties are properties which are owned or held under a leasehold interest to
earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary
course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative
purposes.
Investment properties are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of
the investment property. The cost of self-constructed investment property includes the cost
of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the investment
property to a working condition for their intended use and capitalised borrowing costs.
Depreciation of the leasehold land, leasehold buildings and freehold buildings are charged to
the profit or loss in a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 50 years.
An investment property is derecognised on its disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn
from use and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in
the period in which the item is derecognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
97
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
72
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Subsequent to
recognition, property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and
equipment includes its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset
to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner
intended by management. Dismantlement, removal or restoration costs are included as part
of the cost of property, plant and equipment if the obligation for dismantlement, removal or
restoration is incurred as a consequence of acquiring or using the property, plant and
equipment.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to
allocate depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
as follows:
Useful lives
Leasehold buildings and infrastructure 25 years
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 3-10 years
Furniture, fittings and equipment 5 -10 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Other facilities 10 – 15 years
Renovation 3 years
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until
they are no longer in use.
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods of property, plant and equipment
are reviewed, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period
to ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous
estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied
in the items of property, plant and equipment.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on derecognition
of the asset is included in profit or loss in the financial year the asset is derecognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
98
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
73
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.7 Intangible assets
Land use right
Land use rights are initially measured at cost. Following initial recognition, Land use rights
are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any. The land
use rights are amortised on straight-line basis, over the land lease term of 38 to 50 years.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be
impaired. If any indication exists, (or, where applicable, when an annual impairment testing
for an asset is required), the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value
less costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the
asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets
or group of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its
recoverable amount. That increase cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised previously. Such
reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
2.9 Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt
instruments not held at FVPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash
flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to
receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected
cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit
enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
99
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
74
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.9 Impairment of financial assets (continued)
ECLs are recognised in three stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses
that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL).
For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since
initial recognition, a loss allowance is recognised for credit losses expected over the
remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss
allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a
provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-
looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment which could affect the
debtors’ ability to pay.
The Group considers a financial asset in default when contractual payments are 60 days past
due. However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to be in default
when internal or external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive the
outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancements
held by the Group. A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable expectation
of recovering the contractual cash flows.
For cash and cash equivalents and other receivables, credit loss allowance is based on 12-
month expected credit loss if there is no significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition of the assets. If there is a significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition, lifetime expected credit loss will be calculated and recognised.
2.10 Financial instruments
(a) Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the entity becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instruments.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the
case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”), transaction
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction
costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
100
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
75
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.10 Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Financial assets (continued)
Initial recognition and measurement (continued)
Trade receivables are measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a
customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third party, if the trade receivables
do not contain a significant financing component at initial recognition.
Subsequent measurement
Investments in debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model
for managing the asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset. The
three measurement categories for classification of debt instruments are amortised cost,
FVOCI and FVPL. The Group only has debt instruments at amortised cost.
Financial assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those
cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at
amortised cost. Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method, less impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the assets are derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process.
Derecognition
A financial asset is derecognised where the contractual right to receive cash flows from
the asset has expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference
between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any
cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income for
debt instruments is recognised in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
101
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
76
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.10 Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are recognised when and only when, the Group becomes a party to
the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. The Group determines the
classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus in the case of financial
liabilities not at FVPL, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, financial liabilities that are not carried at FVPL are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains
and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised, and
through the amortisation process.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is
discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition, the difference between the
carrying amounts and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the
consolidated statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right
to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle
the liability simultaneously.
2.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred in bringing
the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
- Raw materials: purchase costs on the weighted average cost method.
- Finished goods: costs of raw materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing
overheads based on normal operating capacity. These costs are assigned on a weighted
average cost basis and exclude borrowing costs.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
102
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
77
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.11 Inventories (continued)
Where necessary, inventories are written down for damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
items to adjust the carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less
estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.12 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition,
construction or production of a qualifying asset. Capitalisation of borrowing costs
commences when the activities to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress
and the expenditures and borrowing costs are incurred. Borrowing costs are capitalised until
the assets are ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are
incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in
connection with the borrowing of funds.
2.13 Leases
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is,
if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time
in exchange for consideration.
(a) As lessee
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases,
except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease
liabilities representing the obligations to make lease payments and right-of-use assets
representing the right to use the underlying leased assets.
Right-of-use assets
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e.
the date the underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at
cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount
of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at
or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
estimated useful lives of the assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
103
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
78
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.13 Leases (continued)
(a) As lessee (continued)
Right-of-use assets (continued)
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group at the end of the lease term or
the cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the
estimated useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment.
The accounting policy for impairment is disclosed in Note 2.8.
The Group’s right-of-use assets are presented within property, plant and equipment
(Note 11).
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured
at the present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease
payments include fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any
lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate,
and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments
also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised
by the Group and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term
reflects the Group exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease payments that do
not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless they are incurred
to produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the
payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental
borrowing rate at the lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the
lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease
payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if
there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments (e.g.
changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to
determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase
the underlying asset.
The Group’s lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 15.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
104
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
79
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.13 Leases (continued)
(a) As lessee (continued)
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases
of assets (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the
commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of
low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of assets that are considered to be low
value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low value assets are
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(b) As lessor
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income
arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease
terms. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on
the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the
period in which they are earned.
2.14 Currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional
currency”). The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in renminbi.
Translations and balances
Transactions in a currency other than the functional currency (“foreign currency”) are
translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of
transactions. Currency translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies at the closing exchange rates at the end of the reporting period are recognised in
profit or loss, except for currency translation differences on the net investment in foreign
operations, borrowings in foreign currencies and other currency instruments designed and
qualifying as net investment hedges for foreign operations, which are included in other
comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve within
equity.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
105
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
80
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.14 Currency translation (continued)
When a foreign operation is disposed of or any borrowings forming part of the net investment
of the foreign operation are acquired, a proportionate share of the accumulated translation
differences is reclassified to profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in foreign currencies are translated using
the exchange rates at the date when the fair values are determined. Currency translation
differences on non-monetary items whereby gains or losses are recognised in other
comprehensive income, such as equity investments classified at fair value through other
comprehensive income financial assets are included in the fair value reserve.
Translation of Group entities’ financial statements
The results and financial position of Group entities that are in functional currencies different
from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rates at the reporting date;
(ii) Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates;
(iii) All resulting currency exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in currency translation reserve within equity. These currency
translation differences are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal
of the entity giving rise to such reserve.
2.15 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in
exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third parties.
Revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation (“PO”) by
transferring a promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains
control of the good or service. A PO may be satisfied at a point in time or over time. The
amount of revenue recognised is the amount allocated to the satisfied performance obligation.
Sale of goods - Ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables
The Group sells its ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables to its distributors. Contracts
with customers are identified through formal sales contracts mutually signed by both parties.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
106
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
81
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.15 Revenue recognition (continued)
Sale of goods - Ready-to-serve food and frozen vegetables (continued)
Revenue derived from the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business is recognised when
the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods
to the customer. Upon the receipt of acknowledged delivery orders from customers, the
responsible personnel for invoicing customers will generate the sales invoices pertaining to
the predetermined prices for the goods sold.
Revenue from construction contracts
During the previous financial year, construction contracts were entered into before
construction of the communication equipment begins. Under the terms of the contracts, the
Group was contractually restricted from redirecting the equipment to another customer.
Revenue from construction contract was therefore recognised over time on based on the stage
of completion of the contract as certified by independent assessor.
Management considered that this output method was an appropriate measure of the progress
towards complete satisfaction of these performance obligations under SFRS(I) 15.
The Group became entitled to invoice customers for construction of communication
equipment based on achieving a series of performance-related milestones. When a particular
milestone was reached, the customer was sent a relevant statement of work signed by a third
party assessor and an invoice for the related milestone payment.
For construction contracts, the period between the recognition of revenue under the output
method and the milestone payment was always less than one year. The Group had elected to
apply the practical expedient not to adjust the transaction price for the existence of significant
financing component when the period between the transfer of control of good or service to a
customer and the payment date was one year or less.
A contract asset was recognised when the Group had performed under the contract but had
not yet billed the customer. Conversely, a contract liability was recognised when the Group
had not yet performed under the contract but had received advanced payments from the
customer. Contract assets were transferred to receivables when the rights to consideration
become unconditional. Contract liabilities were recognised as revenue as the Group performs
under the contract.
A provision for onerous contract on construction was recognised as an expense immediately
when it wasca probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
107
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
82
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.16 Taxes
(a) Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authority. The tax
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax
relates to items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income
or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to
interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the end
of the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the
reporting period.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences except where the
deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a
transaction that at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor
taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right
exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
108
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
83
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.16 Taxes (continued)
(c) Value added tax (“VAT”)
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of VAT, except:
• Where the VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable
from the taxation authority, in which case the VAT is recognised as part of the cost
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
• Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is
included as part of the receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
2.17 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as
a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be
estimated reliably.
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current
best estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value of
money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
2.18 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and bank balances that are readily
convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes
in value.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
109
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
84
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.19 Employee benefits
Employee leave entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised as a liability when they accrue to
employees. The estimated liability for annual leave is recognised for services rendered by
employees up to the end of the reporting period.
Pension obligations
The Group participate in the defined contribution national pension and other welfare schemes
as provided by the laws of the countries in which it has operations.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in the same financial year as the
employment that gives rise to the contributions.
Pursuant to the relevant regulations of the PRC government, a subsidiary of the Group in the
PRC participates in a local municipal government retirement benefits scheme (the “Scheme”),
whereby the subsidiary is required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries of
its employees to the Scheme to fund their retirement benefits. The local municipal
government undertakes to assume the retirement benefits obligations of all existing and
future retired employees of the subsidiary.
The only obligation of the subsidiary with respect to the Scheme is to pay the ongoing
required contributions under the Scheme mentioned above. Contributions under the Scheme
are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
2.20 Share capital
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares are recognised as share capital in equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares are deducted against
share capital.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
110
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
85
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.21 Government grants
Government grants are recognised as a receivable when there is reasonable assurance that the
grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis
over the periods that the related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed.
When the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is recognised as deferred income on the
statement of financial position and is recognised as income in equal amounts over the expected
useful life of the related asset.
When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions with an
interest rate below the current applicable market rate, the effect of this favourable interest is
regarded as additional government grant.
2.22 Financial guarantees
The Group has issued corporate guarantees to banks for bank borrowings granted to third
parties. These guarantees are financial guarantees as they require the Group to reimburse the
banks if the entities fail to make principal or interest payments when due in accordance with
the terms of their respective borrowings.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and
subsequently measured at the higher of:
(a) premium received on initial recognition less amortisation over the period of the third
parties’ borrowings; and
(b) at the expected amount payable to the banks in the event it is probable that the Group
will reimburse the banks for an amount higher than the unamortised amount in (a).
2.23 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business
activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses (including revenue and expenses
relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating results are
regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about
resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete
financial information is available.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
111
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
86
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 to the financial
statements, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision
affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
current and future periods.
3.1 Judgements made in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Management is of the opinion that there are no significant judgements made in applying
accounting estimates and policies that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty
at the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed
below:
(a) Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of trade receivables
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for
trade receivables and contract assets. The provision rates are based on days past due
for groupings of various customer segments that have similar loss patterns.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default rates.
The Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust historical credit loss experience with
forward-looking information. At every reporting date, historical default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast
economic conditions and ECLs is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is
sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The
Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future. The information
about the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 31.2.
The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December 2023 was
RMB13,473,000 (2022: RMB21,246,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
112
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
87
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for property, plant
and equipment and intangible assets in accordance with the accounting policy in
Note 2.8.
As disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements, the Group conducted a review of
the recoverable amount of its property, plant and equipment.
The Group’s management engaged an independent valuer to perform valuation on its
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (which comprise right-of-use
assets) to determine their fair values. The management’s expert adopted the
replacement cost method to value these property, plant and equipment. The valuation
which involves significant estimation is based on the estimates of the gross
replacement costs of the property, plant and equipment, from which appropriate
deductions may then be made to allow for the age, condition, economic and functional
obsolescence and environmental factors. The review led to the recognition of a
reversal of impairment loss of RMB6,695,000 (2022: RMB7,187,000) and an
impairment loss of RMB19,279,000 (2022: RMB2,917,000) in profit or loss.
For right-of-use assets, the management’s expert had adopted the market approach
technique to value these non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 10 to the financial
statements. The values of right-of-use assets are derived by analysing prices of
similar right-of-use assets transacted recently and making adjustments based on
differences in land sizes and useful lives of these right-of-use assets. The review led
to an impairment loss of RMB6,698,000 (2022: RMB224,000) for right-of-use assets.
The carrying amounts of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are
disclosed in Notes 10 and 11 to the financial statements.
(c) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses in the Company’s
statement of financial position. The Company follow the guidance of SFRS(I)1-36 -
Impairment of Assets to determine when the investments in subsidiaries are impaired.
This determination requires significant judgement. In making this judgement, the
Group and the Company evaluate, among other factors, the market conditions and
financial performance of these entities, the duration and extent to which the costs of
investments in the entities exceed their net tangible assets and fair value less cost to sell.
The carrying amount of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries is disclosed in Note
8 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
113
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
88
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
(d) Income tax expense
The Group has exposure to income tax in the PRC. Significant judgement is involved
in determining the provision for income taxes. There are certain transactions and
computations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary
course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for expected tax issues based on
estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences
will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such
determination is made. The Group’s income tax expense is disclosed in Note 25 to the
financial statements.
The PRC subsidiaries make tax submissions to the local tax authorities in accordance
with interpretations and local practices. Management has assessed and concluded that
all tax submissions to local tax authorities had since been finalised and hence are
appropriate. Accordingly, management is of the view that there are no further tax and
related liabilities as at the end of the reporting period.
As at 31 December 2023, the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets in relation to
the unutilised tax losses amounting to RMB41,786,000 (2022: RMB31,117,000) as
disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements due to uncertainty over the availability
of future taxable profit against which the Group can utilise such benefit.
(e) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Management estimates the useful lives of property, plant and equipment to be within
3 to 50 years. These are common life expectancies applied in the relevant industry.
Changes in the expected level of usage and technological development could impact
the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets. Hence, future
depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of the Group’s property,
plant and equipment is disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
(f) Inventory valuation
Inventory write-down is estimated based on the best available facts and circumstances
at the end of each reporting period, including but not limited to, the inventories’ own
physical conditions, their expected market selling prices, estimated costs of completion
and estimated costs to be incurred for their sales. The write-down is re-evaluated and
adjusted as additional information received affects the amount estimated. The carrying
amount of the inventories as at 31 December 2023 is RMB6,879,000 (2022:
RMB11,078,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
114
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
89
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
4. Cash and bank balances
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Cash and bank balances
(representing cash and cash
equivalents in consolidated
statement of cash flows) 446 2,231 176 1,709
Group Company
The renminbi is not freely convertible into foreign currencies. Under the PRC Foreign Exchange
Control Regulations and Administration of Settlement, Sales and Payment of Foreign Exchange
Regulations, the Group is permitted to exchange renminbi for foreign currencies through banks that
are authorised to conduct foreign exchange business. These regulations place restriction on the
amount of currency being exported other than through dividends.
5. Trade and other receivables
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Trade receivables
- third parties 13,461 21,278 - -
- impairment allowance
(Note 31.2) (32) (32) - -
13,429 21,246 - -
Other receivables
- related party 11 2 11 2
- refundable deposits 7 39 8 7
- sundry receivables - 1,000 - -
18 1,041 19 9
13,447 22,287 19 9
Group Company
The average credit period given to trade receivables is 120 (2022: 30 to 120) days.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
115
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
90
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
5. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Allowance for impairment on trade receivables is determined based on management’s assessment
of collectability and by reference to past default experience.
Amounts due from related party are non-trade related, unsecured, interest free and repayable on
demand.
Expected credit losses
The movement in allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables computed based on
lifetime ECL is as follows:
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Balance at 1 January 32 6,276
Reversal of allowance made (Note 21) - (615)
Deconsolidation of subsidiary - (5,629)
Balance at 31 December 32 32
Group
6. Prepayments
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Others - 34
Group
Movements in impairment loss on advance payment of land use right:
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Balance at 1 January - 73,766
Written off - (73,766)
Balance at 31 December - -
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
116
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
91
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
7. Inventories
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Statement of financial position:
Raw materials 4,481 4,928
Finished goods 2,398 6,110
Merchandise held for sale - 40
6,879 11,078
Profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 80,240 78,475
Inclusive of the following charges
- Inventories written down (Note 24) 40 212
Inventories recognised as an expense in other expenses:-
Inventories written off (Note 22) - 173
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
117
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
92
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Equity investments at cost
Cost at beginning of financial year 173,304 173,305
Less: disposal (115) (1)
Cost at end of financial year
173,189 173,304
Less: impairment loss (93,652) (93,767)
79,537 79,537
Company
Movements in impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries:
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Beginning of financial year 93,767 394
Additions - 93,378
Written off (115) (5)
End of financial year 93,652 93,767
Company
During the current financial year, management performed an impairment test for investment in
Shandong Hengbao Foodstuffs Co., Ltd as the subsidiary has been persistently making losses.
However, no additional impairment was recognised as the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying
amount. The recoverable amount of this investment has been determined based on fair value less
costs to disposal.
In 2022, management performed an impairment test for investment in Shandong Hengbao
Foodstuffs Co., Ltd and HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn. Bhd. as these two subsidiaries have
been persistently making losses. An additional impairment of RMB93,378,000 was recognised to
impair the investment in Foodstuffs Co., Ltd and HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn. Bhd for
the year ended 31 December 2022 to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of these
investments has been determined based on value in use.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
118
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
93
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Country of
incorporation/ Percentage
Name of subsidiaries place of operation of equity held Principal activities
2023 2022
Held by the Group
Shandong Hengbao
Foodstuff Co., Ltd.(1)
People’s Republic
of China
100 100 Processing, packaging and
producing various types of
foods
Welltech Utopia Sdn
Bhd.(2)
Malaysia 100 100 Producing, supplying and
manufacturing food
supplement product
SLH Global Sdn. Bhd.(2) Malaysia 100 100 Business management
consultancy and operational
services
HB Global Capital Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Sdn. Bhd.(2)
HB Infrastructures & Malaysia - 75 Telecommunication services
Technologies Sdn. Bhd.
Held by Shandong Hengbao
Foodstuffs Co., Ltd.
JuxianHengbao
Farming Co., Ltd.(1)
People’s Republic
of China
100 100 Rearing and trading of
livestocks, temporarily ceased
operation
Held by SLH Global Sdn. Bhd.
SLH Infra Sdn. Bhd.(2) Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
(1)
Audited by UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co, Singapore. for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the consolidated financial statements
(2)
Audited by JP Centurion & Partners PLT, Malaysia.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
119
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
94
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
The Group has the following subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests (“NCI”):
Country of
incorporation/
Name of subsidiary place of operation
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
% % RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
HB Infrastructures &
Technologies Sdn Bhd Malaysia - 25 - (113) - (97)
at the end of
reporting period
Ownership interest
held by NCI reporting period
Loss allocated
to NCI during the
Accumulated NCI
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
120
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
95
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
8.1 Disposal of subsidiary
HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn Bhd
On 31 January 2023, the Group had entered into a share transfer agreement to transfer all the
75,000 shares held in HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn Bhd (HBIT) to Mr Loh Kah
Shen for a consideration of RM10. The share transfer was completed on 8 February 2023. The
deconsolidation of HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn Bhd has resulted in a gain on
deconsolidation of a subsidiary of RMB321,000 in current year.
The effects of the disposal on the cash flows of the Group were:
HBIT
at 8 February
2023
RMB'000
Carrying amounts of assets as at the
date of deconsolidation:
Trade and other receivables 769
Property, plant and equipment 15
Trade and other payables (1,222)
Total net liabilities (438)
Net liabilities derecognised 438
Less: Non-controlling interests (107)
Less: Currency translation reserve (10)
Net liabilities derecognised 321
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
121
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
96
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
8.1 Disposal of subsidiary (continued)
HB Infrastructures & Technologies Sdn Bhd (continued)
HBIT
at 8 February
2023
RMB'000
Cash inflows arising from de-recognition:
Net liabilities disposed (as above) 321
Less:
Gain on disposal of a subsidiary (321)
Net cash inflow on disposal -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
122
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
97
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
8.2 Deconsolidation of subsidiary
Forward Resources and Construction Sdn Bhd
In the previous financial year, following the order by the court in Malaysia to wind up the
subsidiary, Forward Resources and Construction Sdn Bhd (“FRC”) obtained by its creditor,
Bina Plastic Industries Sdn Bhd on 24 August 2022, the Group has deconsolidated the
investment in Forward Resources and Construction Sdn Bhd. The deconsolidation of Forward
Resources and Construction Sdn Bhd has resulted in a net cash inflow of RMB17,965,000 in
current year.
FRC
at 24 August
2022
RMB'000
Carrying amounts of assets as at the
date of deconsolidation:
Cash and bank balances 1,965
Contract assets 36,956
Trade and other receivables 8,969
Prepayment 268
Income tax recoverable 497
Investment properties 3,840
Property, plant and equipment 5,028
Trade and other payables (37,176)
Bank borrowings (27,104)
Lease liabilities (2,083)
Total net liabilities (8,840)
Net liabilities derecognised 8,840
Less: Non-controlling interests (3,536)
Less: Currency translation reserve (2,932)
Net liabilities derecognised 2,372
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
123
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
98
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
8. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
8.2 Deconsolidation of subsidiary (continued)
Forward Resources and Construction Sdn Bhd (continued)
FRC
at 24 August
2022
RMB'000
Cash inflows arising from de-recognition:
Net liabilities derecognised (as above) 2,372
Less:
Cash and cash equivalents in
subsidiaries derecognised 17,965
Gain on deconsolidation of a subsidiary (2,372)
Net cash inflow on deconsolidation 17,965
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
124
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
99
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
9. Investment properties
Group
Freehold Leashold
buildings buildings Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Cost
At 1 January 2022 2,826 1,375 4,201
Deconsolidation of subsidiary (Note 8.2) (2,833) (1,378) (4,211)
Foreign currency translation reserve 7 3 10
At 31 December 2022 - - -
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 169 159 328
Amortisation for the year (Note 25) 28 14 42
Deconsolidation of subsidiary (Note 8.2) (198) (173) (371)
Foreign currency translation reserve 1 - 1
At 31 December 2022 - - -
Carrying amount
Balance at 31 December 2022 - - -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
125
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
100
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
10. Intangible assets
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Composition:
Land use rights 31,620 39,326
Group
Land use rights
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 68,367 128,861
Written off - (60,494)
Balance at 31 December 68,367 68,367
Accumulated depreciation
Balance at 1 January 13,297 23,179
Amortisation for the year (Note 24) 1,008 2,078
Written off - (11,960)
Balance at 31 December 14,305 13,297
Accumulated impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 15,744 22,441
Addition of impairment loss 6,698 224
Written off - (6,921)
Balance at 31 December 22,442 15,744
Carrying amount
Balance at 31 December 31,620 39,326
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
126
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
101
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
10. Intangible assets (continued)
The above land-use-rights relate to:
Location Tenure
Total land area
(Square Metres)
∙ Ju County Yanzhuang Town Jianhua Cun Zhu
Di, Weifang Lu Bei Ce (莒县闫庄镇建华村
驻地，潍坊路北侧)
50 years from 22 December
2006 to 10 December 2056
64,427
∙ Ju County Wei Fang Middle Road No.39 (莒县
潍坊中路 39 号)
55 years from 10 June 2011
to 7 January 2066
24,034
∙ Ju County South of Qingzhou Lu, East of
Cheng Yang Lu (莒县青州路以南、城阳路以
东)
50 years from 10 May 2011
to 28 July 2061
65,046
∙ Ju County An Zhuang Town, Zhu Di North
Avenue, Dao Huang Road, West (莒县安庄
镇驻地以北道黄路以西)
50 years from 12 May
2011 to 19 October 2061
35,257
Land use rights of the Group with carrying amount of approximately RMB10,608,000 (2022:
RMB13,996,000) has been charged to secure the bank loans (Note 14).
Impairment testing of land-use-rights
During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its
land use rights . The Group engaged an independent valuer to perform a valuation on its land-
use-rights to determine the recoverable amount.
Arising from the valuation, impairment loss of RMB6,698,000 (2022: RMB224,000) was
recognised in “other expenses” in profit or loss.
The recoverable amount of the land use rights was based on fair value less costs of disposal. The
valuation method used is that of the market approach which is regarded as Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy.
The key assumption is as follows:
Based on 50-year useful life RMB175 to RMB299 per square metre0
The key assumption includes consideration of the market value in Shandong Province within the
region, economic or external obsolescence and physical deterioration of assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
127
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
102
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
11. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Leasehold
buildings Furniture,
and Freehold Plant and fittings and Motor Other
infrastructure buildings machinery equipment vehicles facilities Renovation Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Cost
At 1 January 2022 385,203 3,560 34,048 2,292 4,478 5,652 5,000 440,233
Additions - - 185 1 - - - 186
Written off - - (3,341) - (68) (5,652) - (9,061)
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary
(Note 8.2) - (3,568) (2,291) (68) (2,970) - - (8,897)
Foreign currency translation reserve - 8 6 6 7 - - 27
At 31 December 2022 385,203 - 28,607 2,231 1,447 - 5,000 422,488
Additions - - 53 - - - - 53
Written off - - (44) - - - - (44)
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary
(Note 8.2) - - (19) (1) - - - (20)
Foreign currency translation reserve - - (2) - - - - (2)
At 31 December 2023 385,203 - 28,595 2,230 1,447 - 5,000 422,475
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
128
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
103
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
11. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Group
Leasehold
buildings Furniture,
and Freehold Plant and fittings and Motor Other
infrastructure buildings machinery equipment vehicles facilities Renovation Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 95,014 530 27,787 2,253 4,016 5,391 5,000 139,991
Depreciation charge for the year 12,040 36 1,839 5 173 261 - 14,354
Written off - - (2,884) - (68) (5,652) - (8,604)
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary -
(Note 8.1) - (567) (584) (38) (2,680) - - (3,869)
Foreign currency translation reserve - 1 2 - 6 - - 9
At 31 December 2022 107,054 - 26,160 2,220 1,447 - 5,000 141,881
Depreciation charge for the year 12,356 - 501 1 - - - 12,858
Written off - - (42) - - - - (42)
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary
(Note 8.1) - - (5) - - - - (5)
Foreign currency translation reserve - - - - - - - -
At 31 December 2023 119,410 - 26,614 2,221 1,447 - 5,000 154,692
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
129
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
104
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
11. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Group
Leasehold
buildings Furniture,
and Freehold Plant and fittings and Motor Other
infrastructure buildings machinery equipment vehicles facilities Renovation Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2022 88,615 - 928 - - - - 89,543
Charge for the year 2,894 - 23 - - - - 2,917
Written back (6,920) - (267) - - - - (7,187)
Written off - - (18) - - - - (18)
At 31 December 2022 84,589 - 666 - - - - 85,255
Charge for the year 19,279 - - - - - - 19,279
Written back (6,695) - - - - - - (6,695)
At 31 December 2023 97,173 - 666 - - - - 97,839
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2022 193,560 - 1,781 11 - - - 195,352
At 31 December 2023 168,620 - 1,315 9 - - - 169,944
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
130
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
105
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
11. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Company
Furniture,
Plant and fittings and
machinery equipment Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Cost
At 1 January 2022 52 9 61
Additions - - -
At 31 December 2022 52 9 61
Additions - - -
At 31 December 2023 52 9 61
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 6 1 7
Charge for the year 9 - 9
At 31 December 2022 15 1 16
Charge for the year 10 1 11
At 31 December 2023 25 2 27
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2022 37 8 45
At 31 December 2023 27 7 34
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
131
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
106
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
11. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant and equipment of the Group with carrying amount of approximately
RMB33,813,000 (2022: RMB35,571,000) has been pledged to secure the bank loans (Note 14).
Included in property, plant and equipment of the Group is leasehold buildings and infrastructure
with a carrying amount of RMB55,489,000 (2022: RMB59,619,000) that was previously used in
the duck farming business that had temporarily ceased operation. The carrying amount of these
leasehold buildings and infrastructure is after deducting accumulated impairment loss of
RMB24,170,000 (2022: RMB23,942,000).
Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment
During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount.The
Group engaged an independent valuer to perform a valuation on its property, plant and equipment.
Arising from the valuation, a reversal of impairment loss of RMB6,695,000 (2022: RMB7,187,000)
representing an impairment loss written back was recognised in “Other income” (Note 21) and an
impairment loss of RMB19,279,000 (2022: RMB2,917,000) was recognised in “Other expenses”
(Note 22) in profit or loss.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment was based on fair value less costs of
disposal. The valuation method used is that of the replacement cost approach. These are regarded
as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The key assumption to the fair value measurement is as follows:
Composite newness rate 73%
The key assumption includes consideration of technical obsolescence and physical deterioration of
the property, plant and equipment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
132
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
107
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
12. Trade and other payables
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Trade payables
- third parties 62 117 - -
Other payables
Accrued operating expenses 10,526 5,830 369 309
Subsidiary (non-trade) - - 5,372 5,968
Sundry payables 2,304 8,219 653 391
12,830 14,049 6,394 6,668
12,892 14,166 6,394 6,668
Group Company
Non-trade amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash on demand.
13. Amounts due to directors
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Advances 2,697 2,406 497 205
Group Company
The amounts due to directors are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash
on demand.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
133
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
108
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
14. Bank borrowings
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Current:
- bank loans (secured)
Rural Commercial Bank of Juxian #1 4,500 6,500
山东莒县农村商业银行
Bank of Rizhao #2 17,250 18,250
日照银行股份有限公司莒县支行
China Construction Bank #3 22,641 23,741
中国建设银行股份有限公司莒县支行
44,391 48,491
Group
The bank borrowings which consist of bank loans are secured on the followings:
(i) legal charges over the leasehold land and buildings of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in
Note 11;
(ii) legal charges over the land-use-rights of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 10;
(iii) a corporate guarantee provided by a third party;
(iv) a jointly and severally guarantee provided by certain directors and key management
personnel of certain subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
134
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
109
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
14. Bank borrowings (continued)
Bank loans pertain to a subsidiary are denominated in renminbi and comprise the following loans:
(a) Bank loan #1 of RMB4,500,000 (2022: RMB6,500,000) bear fixed interest rate of 12%
(2022: 7.87%) per annum and are repayable within one year. The subsidiary failed to meet
the repayment deadline of 28 June 2023 for the bank loan. As a result, a higher interest rate
has been charged.
(b) Bank loan #2 of RMB17,250,000 (2022: RMB18,250,000) bears fixed interest rate of 6%
(2022: 6.00%) per annum and is repayable within one year.
(c) Bank loan #3 of RMB22,641,000 (2022: RMB23,741,000) was originally repayable within
a year with interest payable at a weighted average rate of 5.35% per annum. However, the
bank has ceased to charge interest since the financial year ended 31 December 2020. In
addition, during the financial year, the subsidiary has reached a verbal agreement with the
bank whereby the subsidiary is required to make a monthly repayment of RMB100,000 to
the bank with effect from February 2023.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
135
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
110
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
14. Bank borrowings (continued)
A reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:
2023
At Interest Payment on At
Note 1.1.2023 Proceeds Repayment Interest paid charged behalf by 31.12.2023
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Amounts due to directors 13 2,406 - - - - 291 2,697
Bank borrowings 14 48,491 17,250 (21,350) (1,712) 1,712 - 44,391
Financing cash flows Non-cash changes
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
136
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
111
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
14. Bank borrowings (continued)
2022
Non-cash changes
Deconsolidation
At Financing of At
Note 1.1.2022 cash flows subsidiary 31.12.2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Pledged deposits 4 (1,858) 614 1,244 -
Amounts due to related parties 5 - (2) - (2)
Amounts due to directors 13 9,004 (946) (5,652) 2,406
Bank borrowings 14 77,883 (2,653) (26,739) 48,491
Lease liabilities 15 2,212 (129) (2,083) -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
137
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
112
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
15. Lease
In the prior financial year, the Group had lease contracts for plant and machinery and motor
vehicles. The Group’s obligations under these leases were secured by the lessor’s title to the leased
assets. The Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased assets. There were several
lease contracts that include extension options which are further discussed below.
The Group also had certain leases of premises with lease terms of 12 months or less and leases of
office equipment with low value. The Group applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value
assets’ recognition exemptions for these leases.
(a) Carrying amounts of right-of-use assets presented within property, plant and equipment
Plant and Motor
machinery vehicles Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
$ $ $
At 1 January 2022 403 1,466 1,869
Addition 1,470 - 1,470
Depreciation (1,112) (124) (1,236)
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary (761) (1,342) (2,103)
At 31 December 2022 - - -
(b) Lease liabilities
The movements during the previous year are disclosed in Note 14 and the maturity analysis
of lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 31.2.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
138
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
113
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
15 Lease (continued)
(c) Amounts recognised in profit or loss
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - 1,236
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Note 23) - 283
Lease expense not capitalised in lease liabilities
- Expense relating to short-term leases (Note 24)
(included in administrative expenses) - 348
- 1,867
Group
(d) Total cash outflow
The Group had total cash outflows for leases of Nil (2022: RMB129,000).
16. Share capital
No. of No. of
shares shares
'000 RMB'000 '000 RMB'000
Issued and fully
paid ordinary
shares
Balance at 1 January 777,714 259,349 770,014 257,463
Private placement 4,280 780 7,700 1,886
Balance at 31 December 781,994 260,129 777,714 259,349
2022
2023
Group/Company
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
Company. All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions.
On 6 July 2023, the Company issued 4,280,000 ordinary shares for a total consideration of
RMB780,000 via private placement to provide funds for the expansion of the Company’s operations.
The newly issued shares rank pari passu in all aspects with the previously issued shares.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
139
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
114
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
17. Capital reserve
The capital reserve comprises the difference between purchase consideration and attributable net
assets relating to the acquisition of additional interest in a subsidiary in 2015 from non-controlling
interests with no change in control.
18. Currency translation reserve
The currency translation reserve of the Group represents exchange differences arising from the
translation of the financial statements of the Company whose functional currency, being RM, is
different from that of the Group’s presentation currency, being RMB. Movements in this
account are disclosed in the statements of changes in equity.
19. Statutory reserve
The Group follows the accounting principles and relevant financial regulations of the People’s
Republic of China (“PRC”) in the preparation of the accounting records and statutory financial
statements of the PRC subsidiaries.
In accordance with the Foreign Enterprise Law applicable to the subsidiaries in the PRC, one of
the subsidiaries of the Group is required to make appropriation to a Statutory Reserve Fund
(“SRF”). At least 10% of the statutory after tax profits as determined in accordance with the
applicable PRC accounting standards and regulations must be allocated to the SRF until the
cumulative total of the SRF reaches 50% of the subsidiary’s registered capital. Subject to approval
from the relevant PRC authorities, the SRF may be used to offset any accumulated losses or
increase the registered capital of the subsidiary. The SRF is not available for dividend distribution
to shareholders.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
140
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
115
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
20. Revenue
(a) Disaggregation of revenue
At a point
in time Over time Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
$ $ $
2023
Sale of goods 80,049 - 80,049
2022
Sale of goods 72,482 - 72,482
Construction contract - 3,585 3,585
72,482 3,585 76,067
Group
(b) Contract assets
The movements of accrued revenue from construction contracts are as follows:
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
At 1 January - 50,968
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary - (50,968)
At 31 December - -
The movements of impairment losses are as follows:
At 1 January - 12,948
Deconsolidation of a subsidiary - (12,948)
At 31 December - -
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
141
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
116
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
20. Revenue (continued)
(c) Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations
As permitted under FRS 115, the aggregated transaction price allocated to unsatisfied
contracts is not disclosed as the Group’s performance obligations are part of a contract that
has a original expected durations of one year or less.
21 Other income
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Gain on disposal of derecognition of a subsidiary 321 2,372
Foreign exchange gain 76 3,671
Impairment written back on:
- property, plant and equipment (Note 11) 6,695 7,187
- trade receivables (Note 5) - 615
Interest income - 1
Insurance claim - 94
Rental income - 121
Sundry income 2 87
7,094 14,148
Group
22 Other expenses
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Restated
Intangible assets written off (Note 10) - 41,613
Inventories written off - 173
Impairment loss on:
- intangible assets (Note 10) 6,698 224
- property, plant and equipment (Note 11) 19,279 2,917
Prepayment written off (Note 6) - 85,663
Property, plant and equipment written off (Note 11) 2 439
Foreign exchange loss 1,260 -
27,239 131,029
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
142
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
117
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
23. Finance costs
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Interest expense on
- bankers' acceptance - 27
- bank loans 1,712 1,893
- bank overdrafts - 717
- lease liabilities - 283
1,712 2,920
Group
24. Loss before income tax
This is stated after charging:
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Restated
Amortisation of investment properties (Note 9) - 42
Amortisation of land use right (Note 10) 1,008 2,078
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 11) 12,858 14,354
- recognised in cost of sales 6,620 7,719
- recognised in administrative expenses 6,238 6,635
Employee benefits expense (Note 26) 18,977 20,791
- recognised in cost of sales 11,788 9,841
- recognised in administrative expenses 7,189 10,950
Impairment loss on financial assets 1,279 6,320
- trade receivables 186 -
- other receivables 1,093 6,320
Fees paid/payable to external auditors for:
- audit services 560 639
- non-audit services - 173
Inventory written down (Note 7) 40 212
Legal and professional fees 1,154 907
Lease expense [Note 15(c)] - 348
Security and share registration fees 12 3
Tax expenses - land 1,510 4,548
Tax expenses - property 2,228 2,238
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
143
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
118
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
25. Income tax expense
There is no income tax expense as the Group has no taxable income for the current and previous
financial years.
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Current tax
- current year - -
Group
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Loss before income tax (45,840) (167,698)
Tax using the Singapore tax rate of 17% (2022:17%) (7,793) (28,509)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (3,431) (44,956)
Adjustments:
- non-deductible expenses 1,130 37,385
- deferred tax assets not recognised 9,041 38,319
- utilisation of deferred tax assets - (3,432)
- tax losses disregarded 1,053 1,193
- -
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
144
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
119
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
25. Income tax expense (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Unused tax losses
As at 31 December 2023, a subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao Foodstuff Co., Ltd. has unused tax
losses of approximately RMB41,786,000 (2022: RMB31,117,000) which are subject to agreement
with the relevant tax authorities. These unused tax losses can be carried forward for offsetting
against future taxable income provided that the provisions of the relevant tax legislations are
complied with. The tax losses have the following expiry dates:
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Expiring in:
2025 8,791 8,791
2026 22,326 22,326
2027 10,669 -
41,786 31,117
Group
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respects of these items as the directors are not
confident that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to realise these future benefits.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
145
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
120
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
25. Income tax expense (continued)
Tax losses disregarded
Pursuant to the corporate income tax law of the PRC under Chapter 4 No 27(1), all PRC
companies engaged in livestock and poultry breeding business are tax exempted. Accordingly,
the losses of Juxian Hengbao Farming Co., Ltd which is engaged in duck farming business are
disregarded given that the profits arising from livestock and poultry breeding are exempted from
tax.
Unappropriated profits
Pursuant to the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law, a 10% withholding tax is levied on the dividends
to foreign investors from foreign investment enterprises established in Mainland China. The
requirement is effective from 1 January 2008 and applies to earnings after
31 December 2007. As at 31 December 2023, the PRC subsidiaries have unappropriated profits
amounting to RMB139,412,000 (2022: RMB175,575,000) which have not yet been utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
As at 31 December 2023, the aggregate amount of temporary differences relating to undistributed
profits of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is
RMB13,941,000 (2022: RMB17,558,000). No deferred tax liability has been recognised because
the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is
probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
26. Employee benefits expense
2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000
Salaries, bonuses and related costs
(including directors' remuneration) 17,782 19,350
Employer's contributions to defined contribution plans 1,195 1,441
18,977 20,791
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
146
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
121
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
27. Loss per share
The basic and diluted loss per share attributable to the owners of the Group is computed as follows:
2023 2022
Net loss attributable to owners of the Company
(RMB'000) (45,830) (165,538)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue ('000) 779,801 777,714
Loss per share (RMB cents)
- Basic (5.88) (21.29)
- Diluted (5.88) (21.29)
Group
Diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share as the Group does not have potential
dilutive shares.
28. Financial guarantees
The Group has issued corporate guarantees to banks for bank borrowings granted to third parties
which have provided corporate guarantees to the banks for bank borrowings (Note 14) granted to
a subsidiary. These guarantees are financial guarantee contracts as they require the Group to
reimburse the banks if the third parties fail to make principal or interest payments when due in
accordance with the terms of their respective borrowings.
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Corporate guarantees to banks on loans granted to
third parties - 4,950
Group
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
147
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
122
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
29. Related party transactions
In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
following are the significant transactions between the Group and related parties that took place at
terms agreed between the parties during the financial year:
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Compensation of key management personnel
Short-term benefits paid to:
Directors of the Company
- salaries and related costs 1,944 2,319
- directors' fees 149 120
- employer's contribution to defined contribution plans 56 120
2,149 2,559
Other key management personnel
- salaries and related costs 151 1,393
- employer's contribution to defined contribution plans 9 90
160 1,483
2,309 4,042
Group
30. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and
has four reportable operating segments as follows:
(i) Ready-to-serve food
(ii) Frozen vegetables
(iii) Construction contract
(iv) Others
Except as indicated above, no operating segments have been aggregated to/from the above
reportable operating segments.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
148
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
123
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
30. Segment information (continued)
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of
making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is
evaluated based on operating profit or loss which in certain respects, as explained in the table
below, is measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial
statements.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to
transactions with third parties.
Unallocated costs represent corporate expenses.
Capital expenditure comprised additions to property, plant and equipment, construction in
progress and intangible assets.
Financial year ended 31 December 2023
Ready-to-
serve Frozen Construction
food vegetables Others contract Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Revenue (external customers) 43,988 19,129 16,932 - 80,049
Segment results 3,354 (1,077) (1,233) - 1,044
Other income 7,094
Unallocated costs (52,276)
Finance costs (1,712)
Loss before income tax (45,850)
Income tax expense -
Net loss for the financial year (45,850)
Other segment information
13,866
Interest expense (Note 23) 1,712
Impairment loss on intangible asset (Note 22) 6,698
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment (Note 22) 19,279
Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment (Note 21) (6,695)
Capital expenditure 53
Depreciation and amortisation (Notes 10 and 11)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
149
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
124
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
30. Segment information (continued)
Financial year ended 31 December 2022
Ready-to-
serve Frozen Construction
food vegetables Others contract Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
Revenue (external customers) 37,082 15,371 19,134 4,480 76,067
Segment results 129 (4,031) (2,192) (3,337) (9,431)
Other income 14,148
Unallocated costs (169,495)
Finance costs (2,920)
Loss before income tax (167,698)
Income tax expense -
Net loss for the financial year (167,698)
Other segment information
16,474
Interest expense (Note 23) 2,920
Impairment loss on intangible asset (Note 22) 224
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment (Note 22) 2,917
Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment (Note 21) (7,187)
Capital expenditure 186
Depreciation and amortisation (Notes 10 and 11)
The Group’s revenue is categorised based on countries where the customers are located.
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
China 80,049 72,482 201,516 234,598
Malaysia - 3,585 48 80
80,049 76,067 201,564 234,678
Revenue Non-current assets
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
150
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
125
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risk sand capital risks management
31.1 Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying amounts of various categories of financial assets and liabilities as at the end
of the reporting period are as follows:
2023 2022 2023 2022
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
Financial assets
measured at
amortised cost
Cash and bank
balances (Note 4) 446 2,231 176 1,709
Trade and other
receivables (Note 5) 13,447 22,287 19 9
Total financial assets
measured at amortised cost 13,893 24,518 195 1,718
Financial liabilities
measured at
amortised cost
Trade and other
payables (Note 12) 12,892 14,166 - 6,668
Amounts due to
directors (Note 13) 2,697 2,406 - 205
Bank borrowings
(Note 14) 44,391 48,491 - -
Financial liabilities
at amortised cost 59,980 65,063 6,873 6,873
Group Company
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
151
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
126
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Group has documented financial risk management policies. These policies set out the
Group’s overall business strategies and its risk management philosophy. The Group’s
overall risk management strategy seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the
financial performance of the Group.
The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the objectives and underlying principles
of financial risk management for the Group. Risk management policies and procedures are
reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to various financial
risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of the risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that the counterparty will default on its contractual obligations
resulting in a loss to the Group. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises primarily from
trade and other receivables. For other financial assets (including cash), the Group
minimises credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties. The
Group performs ongoing credit evaluation of its counterparties’ financial condition and
generally do not require a collateral.
The Group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether
there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each
reporting period.
The Group has determined the default event on a financial asset to be when internal and/or
external information indicates that the financial asset is unlikely to be received, which
could include default of contractual payments due for more than 60 days, default of interest
due for more than 30 days or there is significant difficulty of the counterparty.
To minimise credit risk, the Group has developed and maintained the Group’s credit risk
ratings to categorise exposures according to their degree of risk of default.
The credit rating information is supplied by publicly available financial information and
the Group’s own trading records to rate its major customers and other debtors. The Group
considers available reasonable and supportive forward-looking information which includes
the following indicators:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
152
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
127
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
- Internal credit rating
- External credit rating
- Actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic
conditions that are expected to cause a significant change to the debtor’s ability to meet
its obligations
- Actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the debtor
- Significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor
- Significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the debtor, including
changes in the payment status of debtors in the group and changes in the operating
results of the debtor
Regardless of the above analysis, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor
is more than 60 days past due in making contractual payment.
The Group determined that its financial assets are credit-impaired when:
- There is significant difficulty of the debtor
- A breach of contract, such as a default or past due event
- It is becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation
- There is a disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial
difficulty
The Group uses the following categories of internal credit risk rating for financial assets
which are subject to expected credit losses (“ECL”) under the 3-stage general approach.
These four categories reflect the respective credit risk and how the loss provision is
determined for each of those categories.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
153
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
128
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Basis for recognising
expected credit losses
Category Definition of category (ECL)
I Counterparty has a low risk of default and does 12-month ECL
not have any past-due amounts.
II Amount is >30 days past due or there has been Lifetime ECL - not
a significant increase in credit risk since initial credit-impaired
recognition.
III Amount is >60 days past due or there is evidence Lifetime ECL - credit-
indicating the asset is credit-impaired (in default). impaired
IV There is evidence indicating that the debtor is in Amount is written off
severe financial difficulty and the debtor has no
realistic prospect of recovery.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
154
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
129
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
The table below details the credit quality of the Group’s financial assets, as well as
maximum exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating categories:
Group
12-month Gross Net
or lifetime carrying Loss carrying
Note Category ECL amount allowance amount
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
31 December 2023
Trade receivables 5 Note 1 Lifetime
ECL
(simplified) 13,461 (32) 13,429
Other receivables 5 I 12-month
ECL 18 - 18
31 December 2022
Trade receivables 5 Note 1 Lifetime
ECL
(simplified) 21,278 (32) 21,246
Other receivables 5 I 12-month
ECL 1,041 - 1,041
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
155
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
130
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Company
12-month Gross Net
or lifetime carrying Loss carrying
Note Category ECL amount allowance amount
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
31 December 2023
Other receivables 5 I 12-month
ECL 19 - 19
31 December 2022
Other receivables 5 I 12-month
ECL 9 - 9
Trade receivables (Note 1)
For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in SFRS(I) 9 to
measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. The Group determines the ECL by using a
provision matrix, estimated based on historical credit loss experience based on the past due
status of the debtors, adjusted as appropriate to reflect current conditions and estimates of
future economic conditions. Accordingly, the credit risk profile of trade receivables is
presented based on their past due status in terms of the provision matrix.
Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired
Cash and bank balances that are neither past due nor impaired are placed with or entered
into with reputable financial institutions or companies with high credit ratings and no
history of default.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
156
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
131
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Current ≤ 30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days >90 days Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
31 December 2023
ECL rate 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Trade receivables 13,461 - - - - 13,461
Loss allowances (32) - - - - (32)
Days past due
Current ≤ 30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days >90 days Total
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
31 December 2022
ECL rate 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Trade receivables 20,803 - - - 475 21,278
Loss allowances (32) - - - - (32)
Days past due
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
157
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
132
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Information regarding loss allowance movement of trade receivables and contract assets is
disclosed in Note 5 and Note 20(b) respectively.
Excessive risk concentration
Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business
activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that
would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes
in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity
of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
Exposure to credit risk
At the end of the reporting period, approximately 100% (2022: 87%) of the Group’s trade
receivables were due from 1 (2022: 5) major external customers. The maximum exposure
to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset presented on the
statements of financial position. Cash is placed with banks which are regulated.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
158
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
133
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Other receivables
The Group assessed the latest performance and financial position of the counterparties,
adjusted for the future outlook of the industry in which the counterparties operate in, and
concluded that there has been no significant increase in the credit risk since the initial
recognition of the financial assets. Accordingly, the Group measured the impairment loss
allowance using 12-month ECL and determined that the ECL is insignificant.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s financial
instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group has no
exposure to interest rate risk as the outstanding bank loans at the end of the reporting period
have fixed interest rate. The Group’s policy is to obtain the most favourable interest rates
available and maintain a balanced portfolio mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its
short-term obligations due to shortage of funds. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. It is
managed by matching the payment and receipt cycles. The Group’s objective is to maintain
a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of stand-by credit
facilities. The Group finances its working capital requirements through a combination of
funds generated from operations and bank borrowings. The ability of the Group to pay its
debts as and when they fall due is due to the reasons as disclosed in Note 1.2. The directors
are satisfied that funds are available to finance the operations of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
159
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
134
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial assets and
liabilities at the reporting date based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations.
Group
1 year Contractual Carrying
or less cash flows amount
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
2023
Cash and bank balances 446 446 446
Trade and other receivables 13,447 13,447 13,447
Total undiscounted financial assets 13,893 13,893 13,893
Trade and other payables 12,892 12,892 12,892
Amounts due to directors 2,697 2,697 2,697
Bank borrowings 45,661 45,661 44,391
Total undiscounted financial
liabilities 61,250 61,250 59,980
Total net undiscounted financial
liabilities (47,357) (47,357) (46,087)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
160
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
135
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities (continued)
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial assets and
liabilities at the reporting date based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations.
Group
1 year Contractual Carrying
or less cash flows amount
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
2022
Cash and bank balances 2,231 2,231 2,231
Trade and other receivables 22,287 22,287 22,287
Total undiscounted financial assets 24,518 24,518 24,518
Trade and other payables 14,166 14,166 14,166
Amounts due to directors 2,406 2,406 2,406
Bank borrowings 51,366 51,366 48,491
Total undiscounted financial
liabilities 67,938 67,938 65,063
Total net undiscounted financial
liabilities (43,420) (43,420) (40,545)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
161
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
136
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Company
Contractual Carrying
1 year or less cash flows amount
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
2023
Cash and bank balances 176 176 176
Trade and other receivables 19 19 19
Total undiscounted financial assets 195 195 195
Trade and other payables 6,394 6,394 6,394
Amounts due to directors 497 497 497
Total undiscounted financial
liabilities 6,891 6,891 6,891
Total net undiscounted financial
liabilities (6,696) (6,696) (6,696)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
162
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
137
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Liquidity risk (continued)
Company
Contractual Carrying
1 year or less cash flows amount
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
2022
Cash and bank balances 1,709 1,709 1,709
Trade and other receivables 9 9 9
Total undiscounted financial assets 1,718 1,718 1,718
Trade and other payables 6,668 6,668 6,668
Amounts due to directors 205 205 205
Total undiscounted financial
liabilities 6,873 6,873 6,873
Total net undiscounted financial
liabilities (5,155) (5,155) (5,155)
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s foreign exchange risk results mainly from cash flows from transactions
denominated in foreign currencies. At present, the Group does not have any formal policy
for hedging against currency risk. The Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an
acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates, where necessary, to
address short term imbalances
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk mainly on its sales and purchases and other
transactions that are denominated primarily in Malaysian ringgit (“RM”) and Singapore
dollar (“SGD”).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
163
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
138
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Foreign currency risk (continued)
The Group does not enter into currency options and does not use forward exchange
contracts for speculative trading purposes. The Group’s and Company’s main exposures
to foreign currencies are as follows:
Group
SGD RM
RMB'000 RMB'000
2023
Cash and bank balances - 446
Trade and other receivables - 18
Trade and other payables (511) (380)
Amounts due to directors - (653)
(511) (569)
2022
Cash and bank balances - 1,709
Trade and other receivables - 781
Trade and other payables (61) (640)
Amounts due to directors - (205)
(61) 1,645
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
164
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
139
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Foreign currency risk (continued)
Company
SGD RM
RMB'000 RMB'000
2023
Cash and bank balances - 176
Trade and other receivables - 19
Trade and other payables - (1,022)
Amounts due to directors - (497)
- (1,324)
2022
Cash and bank balances - 1,709
Trade and other receivables - 9
Trade and other payables (60) (640)
Amounts due to directors - (205)
(60) 873
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
165
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
140
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.2 Financial risk management policies and objectives (continued)
Foreign currency risk (continued)
Sensitivity analysis
A 3% strengthening of the Chinese renminbi against the following currencies at the
reporting date would affect profit or loss before tax as shown below. This analysis assumes
that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Group
2023 2022
RMB'000 RMB'000
Singapore dollar 15 2
Malaysian ringgit 17 (49)
32 (47)
Company
Singapore dollar - 2
Malaysian ringgit 40 (26)
40 (24)
Decrease/(Increase) loss before income tax
A 3% weakening of the Chinese renminbi against the above currencies would have equal
but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that
all other variables remain constant.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
166
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
141
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.3 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the statement of
financial position where the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the
recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and
settle the liability simultaneously.
The following table presents the recognised financial instruments that are offset as at 31
December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
Group
Gross
amounts set Net amounts
off in the presented in
statement the statement
Gross of financial of financial
amounts position position
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
2023
Financial assets
Cash and bank balances 446 - 446
Trade and other receivables 31,246 (17,799) 13,447
Total 31,692 (17,799) 13,893
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 30,691 17,799 12,892
Amounts due to directors 2,697 - 2,697
Bank borrowings 44,391 - 44,391
Total 77,779 17,799 59,980
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
167
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
142
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.3 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (continued)
Group
Gross
amounts set Net amounts
off in the presented in
statement the statement
Gross of financial of financial
amounts position position
RMB’000 RMB’000 RMB’000
2022
Financial assets
Cash and bank balances 2,231 - 2,231
Trade and other receivables 45,232 (22,945) 22,287
Total 47,463 (22,945) 24,518
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 37,111 22,945 14,166
Amounts due to directors 2,406 - 2,406
Bank borrowings 48,491 - 48,491
Total 88,008 22,945 65,063
31.4 Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an adequate and efficient capital
structure so as to maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or achieve an optimal
capital structure, the Group may issue new shares or obtain additional borrowings.
No changes were made to the policies or processes of capital management for the financial
years ended 31 December 2023 and 2022.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
168
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
143
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
31. Financial instruments, financial risks and capital risks management (continued)
31.4 Capital management (continued)
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements, except for a
subsidiary of the Group as disclosed in Note 19 which is required by the Foreign Enterprise
Law of the PRC to contribute to and maintain a non-distributable statutory reserve fund
whose utilisation is subject to approval by the relevant PRC authorities. This externally
imposed capital requirement has been complied with by the subsidiary for the financial
years ended 31 December 2023 and 2022
The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged since 2022.
32. Fair value of financial instruments
32.1 Fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value
Fair value hierarchy
The Group classifies fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
▪ Level 1 - Quote prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
▪ Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for
the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
▪ Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs).
32.2 Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and
whose carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value
Management has determined that the carrying amounts of current financial assets and
liabilities approximate their fair values because these instruments are short-term in nature
or repriced frequently.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont’d)
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
169
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
144
HB Global Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to Financial Statements
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
33. Comparative information
During 2023, the Group modified the classification of impairment loss on financial assets to reflect
more appropriately way in which economic benefits are derived from its use. The effect of the
reclassification is as follow:
2022 2022
As previously
reported Reclassification As restated
RMB'000 RMB'000 RMB'000
2022
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
and Other Comprehensive Income
Other expenses 137,349 (6,320) 131,029
Impairment loss on financial assets - 6,320 6,320
Since the amounts are reclassifications within the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, this reclassification did not have any effect on the statements of financial position and cash
flows.
34. Standards issued but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not adopted the following
standards applicable to the Group that have been issued but not yet effective:
Description Effective for annual
periods beginning
on or after
Amendments to FRS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements:
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to FRS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements:
Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to FRS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and FRS 107
Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Supplier Finance
Arrangement 1 January 2024
Amendments to FRS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates: Lack of Exchangeability 1 January 2025
The directors expect that the adoption of the standards above will not have any material impact on the
financial statements in the year of initial application.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
170
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
GROUP PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO
The landed property of the Group as at the date of this Annual Report is as follows:
(i) Land
Our subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao has obtained the State-owned Land Use Right Certificates for the
following four (4) parcels of land, the details of which are set out below:
No. Land No. / Location
State-owned
Land Use Right
Certificate No.
/ Certificate
Issuance Date
Tenure /
Expire of
Tenure
Revaluation /
Acquisition
Land Area
(Square
Metres)
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2023
RMB’000
1. Anzhuang Town Baowa
Village East,
Daohuang Road West, Ju
County
Shandong
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No. 0006656/
01.11.2017
43 years /
13.10.2061
2023 35,257.00 4,658
2. South of Qingzhou Road,
East of Chengyang Road, Ju
County
Shandong
Juguoyong
(2015) No. 116/
07.12.2015
43 years /
28.07.2061
2023 65,046.00 14,976
3. Weifang Road No. 39, Ju
County
Shandong
Lu (2016) Ju
property rights
No. 0000826/
10.06.2011
48 years /
01.07.2066
2023 24,034.00 6,036
4. Yanzhuang Town Dachang
Anpo Village, Jianhua
Village, Ju County
Shandong
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No. 0006660/
01.11.2017
45 years /
08.11.2058
2023 64,426.96 5,950
Grand Total 188,763.96 31,620
(ii) Leasehold Building and Infrastructure
Details of the Leasehold Building and Infrastructure held by our subsidiary, Shandong Hengbao and Juxian
Hengbao are set out below :-
No. Location
Description /
Existing Use
Certificate of
Real Estate
Ownership No.
/ Certificate of
Issuance Date
Built-up
Area
(Square
Metres)
Approximate
Age
(Years)
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2023
RMB’000
1. First Production Plant
North of Weifang
Middle Road No. 1,
Ju County Shandong
Province PRC
A single-storey
factory building
and a five-storey
workers’ hostel,
warehouse and
workers’ hotel
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No. 0006660/
01.11.2017
28,221.12 10 2023 26,018
2. Third Production Plant
North of Weifang
Road No. 1, Ju County
Shandong Province
PRC
A single-storey
factory building
/ Production
plant
Lu (2016) Ju
property rights
No. 0000826/
10.06.2011
18,807.50 5 – 12 2023 32,094
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
171
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
No. Location
Description /
Existing Use
Certificate of
Real Estate
Ownership No.
/ Certificate of
Issuance Date
Built-up
Area
(Square
Metres)
Approximate
Age
(Years)
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Audited
NBV as at
31.12.2023
RMB’000
3. Head Quarter and R&D
Centre
North of Weifang
Road No. 1, Ju County
Shandong
Province PRC
An eight storey
office building
equipped with
R&D facilities
Ju Fang Quan
Zheng Cheng
Qu Zi
No. 20134138 /
24.10.2013
8,725.39 9 – 12 2023 20,156
4. Incubation Facilities
ZhuDi North Avenue,
West AnZhuang Town,
Ju County Shandong
Province PRC
A single storey
factory building
/hatching plant
Lu (2017) Ju
property rights
No. 0006656/
01.11.2017
16,297.00 9 – 10 2023 24,555
5. Duck Farm 1
ZhuDi North Avenue,
West AnZhuang Town,
Ju County Shandong
Province PRC
A duck farm
completed 15
duck sheds
* 21,450.00 9 – 10 2023 10,174
6. Duck Farm 2
ZhuDi North
Avenue,West
AnZhuang Town,
Ju County Shandong
Province PRC
A duck farm
completed 15
duck sheds
* 21,372.72 9 – 10 2023 9,188
7. Duck Farm 3
2011-18 /
ShiQuanGuanZhuan
Village, QiShan Town,
Ju County Shandong
Province, PRC
A duck farm
completed 15
duck sheds
* 16,008.00 9 2023 11,573
Grand Total 133,758
* The company has yet to receive certificate of real estate ownership as at to date
GROUP PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO (cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
172
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
STATISTICS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
Total Number of Issued Shares : 781,993,740
Class of Shares : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights : One vote for each ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
Size of Shareholdings No. of % of No. of % of
						 Shareholders Shareholders Shares Issued Share
Less than 100 			 13 0.4068 373 0.0001
100 - 1,000 				 221 6.9149 119,669 0.0153
1,001 - 10,000 			 990 30.9762 6,441,958 0.8238
10,001 - 100,000 		 1,382 43.2415 56,775,400 7.2603
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 		 590 18.4606 718,656,340 91.9005
5% and above of issued shares 		 0 0 0 0
Total					 3,196 100.0000 781,993,740 100.0000
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE COMPANY’S REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 29 MARCH 2024)
No. Name of Substantial Shareholder		 No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
						 Direct % Indirect %
1 Keh Chuan Seng		 129,500,000 16.5602 - -
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
No. Name of Director 		 No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
						 Direct % Indirect %
1 Chan Kay Ding 		 - - - -
(appointed as Director on 22 February 2024)
2 Shen Hengbao 		 - - 15,515,900(a) 1.9841
3 Keh Chuan Yee		 - - - -
4 Yang Chin Shen		 107,700 0.0138 - -
5 Ho Pui Hold			 - - - -
6 Lew Seh Li			 - - - -
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Hengbao Foodstuffs Holding Limited pursuant to Section 4A of
the Companies Act of Singapore, Cap.50
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
173
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
LIST OF TOP THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29 MARCH 2024)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 35,000,000 4.4757
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN SENG
2 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 34,500,000 4.4118
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN SENG
3 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 30,000,000 3.8363
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN SENG
4 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 30,000,000 3.8363
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHU KERD YEE
5 M & A NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 30,000,000 3.8363
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN SENG (PNG)
6 LAM KOON LENG 20,000,000 2.5576
7 LAM YEOW YIN 17,749,000 2.2697
8 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 15,960,000 2.0409
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT - AMBANK (M) BERHAD
FOR NG WEI YEE (SMART)
9 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD 15,515,900 1.9841
EXEMPT AN FOR LGT BANK AG (FOREIGN)
10 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 15,000,000 1.9182
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LAM YEOW YIN (MY4323)
11 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 14,304,400 1.8292
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT - AMBANK (M) BERHAD
FOR HOOI JIA HAO (SMART)
12 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 14,000,000 1.7903
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GOH PHAIK LIM (M04)
13 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 12,500,000 1.5985
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT - AMBANK (M) BERHAD
FOR PEH LIAN HWA (SMART)
14 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 12,176,870 1.5572
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHAN SOON TAT (M04)
15 YIM KIT KWAN 12,126,870 1.5508
16 SIM SHIAU TYNG 11,800,000 1.5090
17 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 10,000,000 1.2788
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HOOI JIA HAO (MY4183)
18 TAN HWA SENG 10,000,000 1.2788
19 RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 9,500,000 1.2148
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR NG WEI YEE
20 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 9,000,000 1.1509
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR NG WEI YEE (MY4179)
21 TAN BOON LING 7,800,000 0.9974
22 AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 6,149,000 0.7863
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHOW CHIA WEI
23 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 5,678,100 0.7261
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GOH PHAIK LIM (MP0506)
STATISTICS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (cont’d)
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
174
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
STATISTICS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (cont’d)
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
LIST OF TOP THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS (cont’d)
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29 MARCH 2024)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
24 KENANGA NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD 5,190,000 0.6637
EXEMPT AN FOR PHILLIP SECURITIES PTE LTD (CLIENT ACCOUNT)
25 YONG KIM SIONG 5,083,600 0.6501
26 RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 4,883,000 0.6244
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR ONG JOO VOON
27 M & A NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 4,776,000 0.6070
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KEH CHUAN CHOON (M&A)
28 LIM AH OOI @ LIM AH MOI 4,746,700 0.6103
28 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 4,500,000 0.5755
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GOH PHAIK LIM
30 BROTHER ASSETS FUND HOUSE CORP. 4,356,700 0.5571
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
175
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
NOTICE OF THE 17TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2)
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 3)
Ordinary Resolution 7
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 4)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Seventeenth (17th) Annual General Meeting of HB Global Limited (“HB Global”)
will be held at Meeting Room 1, Level 3A, Vivatel Kuala Lumpur, 85, Jalan Loke Yew, Taman Miharja, 55200 Kuala
Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur, on Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. or at any adjournment
thereof, to transact the following businesses:-
AGENDA
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements of the Company and of the Group
for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 together with the Reports of the
Directors and Auditors thereon.
2. To re-elect the following Directors who retires pursuant to the Company’s Constitution
and who being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:-
(i) Mr Yang Chin Shen (Clause 99.1)
(ii) Ms Lew Seh Li (Clause 99.1)
(iii) Mr Chan Kay Ding (Clause 101)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM96,000 for the financial year ended
31 December 2023.
4. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Company for the
ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESSS
To consider and if thought fit, with or without modifications to pass the following resolution:
-
5. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
“THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies Act of Singapore,
Cap. 50, and subject otherwise to the provisions of that Act and the Constitution
of the Company, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to issue shares of the
Company to such persons and on such terms and conditions and with such rights or
restrictions as they may think fit to impose, provided that the aggregate number of
shares to be issued does not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company
for the time being, and subject always to the approval of all the relevant regulatory
bodies having been obtained for such allotment and issue, and that such authority
shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or
the expiration of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting of the
Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT in connection with the above, pursuant to Clause 54 of the Company’s
Constitution, the shareholders of the Company by approving this resolution are
deemed to have waived their pre-emptive rights over all new shares, options over
or grants of new shares or any other convertible securities in the Company and/or
any new shares to be issued pursuant to such options, grants or other convertible
securities, such new shares when issued, to rank pari passu with the existing shares in
the Company.”
6. Retention of Mr Yang Chin Shen as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company
“THAT Mr Yang Chin Shen be and is hereby retained as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting or at any adjournment thereof.”
7. To transact any other business of the Company for which due notice shall have been
given.
By Order of the Board,
KEH CHUAN YEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
30 April 2024
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
176
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
NOTICE OF THE 17TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (cont’d)
NOTES:
1. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member and / or a qualified
legal practitioner, an approved company auditor or a person approved by the Registrar of Companies.
2. Where a member duly executes the form of proxy but does not name any proxy, such member shall be
deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the meeting as proxy, provided always that the rest of the
proxy form, other than the particulars of the proxy have been duly completed by the member.
3. Where a member appoints more than one proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the
proportion of his holding to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories
Act which is exempted from compliance with the provision of subsection 25A(1) of the Central Depositories
Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one Securities Account
(“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. In the case of a corporate member, the instrument appointing a proxy shall be under its Common Seal or
under the hand of an officer or attorney, duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar’s Office, Aldpro
Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. at B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B, Northpoint Mid Valley City, No. 1, Medan Syed
Putra Utara, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia not less than 48 hours before the time for
holding the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 17th Annual General Meeting,
the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a General Meeting Record of
Depositors as at 12 June 2024. Only members whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 12
June 2024 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on his/her
behalf.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
all resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by way of a poll.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
177
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
NOTICE OF THE 17TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (cont’d)
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
The Agenda 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 174(5) of the Companies Act of Singapore provide
that the audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item will not be put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1 to 3 : Re-election of Directors
The following Directors are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company pursuant to the following
clauses of the Company’s Constitution at the 17th AGM of the Company and are being eligible have
offered themselves for re-election:
(a) Yang Chin Shen (Clause 99.1)
(b) Lew Seh Li (Clause 99.1)
(c) Chan Kay Ding (Clause 101)
(collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”)
The Board of Directors, through the Nomination Committee, has deliberated on the suitability of the Retiring
Directors to be re-elected as Directors. Upon deliberation, the Board (except for the respective Director
concerned) collectively agreed that the Retiring Directors meet the criteria of character, experience,
integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their respective roles as Directors of
the Company and recommended the Retiring Directors be re-elected as the Directors of the Company.
3. Ordinary Resolution 6 : Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, is a renewal of the general mandate to empower the Directors
to issue and allot shares up to an amount not exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company
for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the best interest of the Company.
This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a General Meeting, will expire at the next Annual
General Meeting.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund-raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), workings
capital and/or acquisitions.
Pursuant to Clause 54 of the Constitution of the Company, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be
offered any new shares in the Company which rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company or
other convertible securities.
Clause 54 of the Constitution of the Company provides as follows:
“54. Issue of new shares to existing members
Subject to any direction to the contrary that may be given by the Company in general meeting any shares
or securities from time to time to be created shall before they are issued be offered to such persons as at
the date of the offer are entitled to receive notices from the Company of general meetings in proportion,
as nearly as the circumstances admit, to the amount of the existing shares or securities to which they are
entitled. The offer shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares or securities offered and limiting
a time within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be declined, and, after the expiration of
that time, or on the receipt of an intimation from the person to whom the offer is made that he declines
to accept the shares or securities offered the Directors may dispose of those shares or securities in such
manner as they think most beneficial to the Company. The Directors may in like manner dispose of any such
new shares or securities as aforesaid which, by reason of the ratio borne by them to the number of shares
or securities held by persons entitled to such offer of new shares or securities cannot, in the opinion of the
Directors be conveniently offered in the manner herein provided.”
The proposed Ordinary Resolution, if passed, will exclude your pre-emptive right to be offered new shares
and/or convertible securities to be issued by the Company pursuant to the said Ordinary Resolution.
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
178
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
NOTICE OF THE 17TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (cont’d)
4. Ordinary Resolution 7 : Retention of Mr Yang Chin Shen as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company
Mr Yang Chin Shen (“Mr Yang”) was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
on 28 February 2014. He has served the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years. The
Nomination Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, after having assessed the independence
of Mr Yang, consider him to be independent based on amongst others, the following justifications and
recommend that Mr Yang be retained as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company subject
to the shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process: -
a) He was able to bring independent and objective judgment to the Board’s deliberations;
b) He has not been involved in any business or other relationship which could hinder the exercise of
independent judgement, objectivity or his ability to act in the best interest of the Company;
c) He has no potential conflict of interest, whether business or non-business related with the Company;
d) His experience enables him to provide the Board with a diverse set of experience, expertise, skills and
competence; and
e) He has exercised due care during his tenure as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
and carried out his professional duties in the interest of the Company and Shareholders.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
No notice of nomination has been received to date from any member nominating any individual for election
as a Director at the 17th Annual General Meeting of the Company. There is therefore no individual standing for
election as Director, save for the above Directors who are standing for re-election.
Further details of Directors standing for re-election as Director is set out in the Board of Directors’ Profiles of this
Annual Report and the details of their respective interests in the securities of the Company is disclosed in the
Statistics of Shareholdings of this Annual Report.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 3 for information relating to the general mandate for issue of securities.
Proxy Form
I/We [Full Name in Block Letters] NRIC
No. of
[Full Address], [Email Address], [Contact No.]
being a member(s) of HB GLOBAL LIMITED, hereby appoint the following:-
and/or
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our proxy to vote and act on my/our behalf at the
Seventeenth (17th) Annual General Meeting of HB Global Limited (“HB Global”) to be held at Meeting Room 1,
Level 3A, Vivatel Kuala Lumpur, 85, Jalan Loke Yew, Taman Miharja, 55200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan
Kuala Lumpur, on Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy is to vote as indicated below :
NO. ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS FOR AGAINST
1. To re-elect Mr Yang Chin Shen who retires pursuant to Clause 99.1 of the
Company’s Constitution.
2. To re-elect Mr Lew Seh Li, who retires pursuant to Clause 99.1 of the Company’s
Constitution.
3. To re-elect Mr Chan Kay Ding who retires pursuant to Clause 101 of the Company’s
Constitution.
4. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM96,000 for the financial year
ended 31 December 2023.
5. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Company for
the ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares.
7. Retention of Mr Yang Chin Shen as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company.
Please indicate with “X” where appropriate against each resolution how you wish to cast your vote. In the absence of specific
directions, the proxy may vote or abstain from voting in the resolutions as he / she may think fit.
Signature of Shareholder(s)
(If shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
Date :
NOTES:
1. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy may but need not be a member and / or a qualified legal practitioner, an approved company auditor or a person approved by the Registrar of
Companies.
2. Where a member duly executes the form of proxy but does not name any proxy, such member shall be deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the
meeting as proxy, provided always that the rest of the proxy form, other than the particulars of the proxy have been duly completed by the member.
3. Where a member appoints more than one proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his holding to be represented by each
proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with
the provision of subsection 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one Securities
Account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus
account it holds.
5. In the case of a corporate member, the instrument appointing a proxy shall be under its Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney, duly
authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar’s Office, Aldpro Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. at B-21-1, Level 21,
Tower B, Northpoint Mid Valley City, No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia not less than 48 hours before the
time for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 17th Annual General Meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 12 June 2024. Only members whose name appears on the Record of Depositors
as at 12 June 2024 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on his/her behalf.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to
vote by way of a poll.
NUMBER OF SHARES HELD CDS ACCOUNT NO.
Full Name in Block Letters Proportion of
shareholdings to be
presented %
Email Address
NRIC No.
Full Address
Contact No.
Full Name in Block Letters Proportion of
shareholdings to be
presented %
Email Address
NRIC No.
Full Address
Contact No.
100%
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
(Company Registration No.:200608505W)
(Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)
[Malaysian Foreign Company Registration No.: 200902000048 (995221-H)]
(Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965 of Malaysia)
Fold here
Fold here
Please affix
postage stamp
here
The Share Registrar of
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
i.e. Aldpro Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B, Northpoint Mid Valley City
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia
