CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY CORPORATION
Company Registration Number: 200900709K
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 DECEMBER 2024
Annual Report 2024
52
Directors
Wang Chao
Zhang Fuwei
Sun Huifeng
Company secretar
Chiang KaiMing
y
Yang Bin
Registered offices
Principal place of busi
Singapore
60 Paya Lebar Road
#08-10
Paya Lebar Square
Singapore 409051
Malaysia
E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
ness
No. 3 North Wolong Road
Yantai City
Shandong Province
The PRC
Bankers
Aud
China Construction Bank
Bank of China
itors
UHY Lee Seng Chan & CO
6001 Beach Road, #14-01 Golden Mile Tower, Singapore 199589
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its subsidiary corporation
General Information
Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
53
Chen Anli
and its subsidiary corporation
Independent Auditor's Report
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income
Statements of Financial Position
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Financial Statements
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
Statutory Declaration
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Index
Directors' Statement
Annual Report 2024
54
Page
55
59
60
66
67
68
69
70
55
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
The directors are pleased to present their statement to the members together with the audited
consolidated financial statements of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the Company) and its
subsidiaries (the Group) for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 and the statement of financial
position of the Company as at 31 December 2024.
Opinion of the directors
In the opinion of the directors,
(a) the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group and the statement of financial
position of the Company are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position
of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and the financial performance,
changes in equity and cash flows of the Group for the year ended; and
(b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be
able to pay its debts as and when they fall due.
Directors of the Company
The directors of the Company in office at the date of this statement are:
Wang Chao
Sun Huifeng
Zhang Fuwei
Chiang Kai Ming (Appointed on 18 April 2024)
Chen Anli (Appointed on 28 February 2025)
Arrangements to enable directors to acquire shares or debentures
Neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year was the Company a party to any
arrangement whose object are, or one of whose objects is, to enable the directors of the Company to
acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other
body corporate.
Directors’ interests in shares or debentures
According to the register of directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 164 of the
Singapore Companies Act 1967 (the Act), none of the directors holding office at the end of the financial
year had any interest in the shares or debentures of the Company or its related corporations except as
follows:
56
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Directors’ interests in shares or debentures (continued)
Shareholdings registered Other shareholdings in
in the name of which director is
director and/or spouse deemed to have an interest
Name of director and companies At beginning At end of At beginning At end of
in which interests are held of financial year financial year of financial year financial year
The Company
China Ouhua Winery
Holdings Limited
(Ordinary shares)
Wang Chao - - 182,400,000* 182,400,000*
The Subsidiary
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua
Winery Co. Ltd.
(Ordinary shares)
Wang Chao - - 180,000* 180,000*
* The deemed interests of Wang Chao in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries arise from his
shareholding interest in Hua Xin International Holdings Limited by virtue of Section 7(4) of the Act.
Share options
There were no share options granted during the financial year to subscribe for unissued shares of the
Company or its subsidiaries.
There were no shares issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of options to take up
unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries.
There were no unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries under option at the end of the
financial year.
Audit committee
The members of the Audit Committee (“AC”) at the date of this statement are:
Sun Huifeng - Chairman
Zhang Fuwei - Member
Chiang Kai Ming - Member (Appointed on 18 April 2024)
57
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Audit committee (continued)
The Audit Committee performs its functions in accordance with Section 201B(5) of the Act, Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and the Code of Corporate
Governance.
The primary duties and responsibilities of the AC are as follows:
(i) To review audit plans of the internal and external auditors of the Company, and review the
internal auditors’ evaluation of the adequacy of the Company’s system of internal accounting
controls and the assistance given by the Company’s management to the external and internal
auditors;
(ii) To review quarterly and annual financial statements and the auditor’s report on the annual
financial statements of the Company before their submission to the Board;
(iii) To review the effectiveness of the Company’s material internal controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management via reviews carried out by the internal
auditors;
(iv) To meet with the external auditors, other committees, and management in separate executive
sessions to discuss any matters that these groups believe should be discussed privately with the
AC;
(v) To review legal and regulatory matters that may have a material impact on the financial
statements, related compliance policies and programmes and any reports received from
regulators;
(vi) To review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors;
(vii) To recommend to the Board the nomination of external auditors, approve the compensation of
the external auditor and review the scope and results of the audit;
(viii) To report actions and meeting minutes of the AC to the Board with such recommendations as the
AC considers appropriate; and
(ix) To review interested person transactions.
The AC is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference. The AC
has unlimited access to both internal auditors and external auditors as well as all employees of the
Group. The AC shall also have the authority to obtain independent legal or other professional advice
and to secure attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this
necessary.
The AC held 4 meetings during the financial year. The AC also met with the external auditors, without
the presence of the Company’s management, at least once a year.
58
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Further details regarding the AC are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement in the Annual
Report of the Company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors,
Wang Chao Zhang Fuwei
Director Director
30 April 2025
59
Statutory declaration
Pursuant to Paragraph 9.27 of the Main Market Listing Manual Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
I, Mr Wang Chao, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of China Ouhua
Winery Holdings Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial
statements are in my opinion correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true and by virtue of the prevailing laws governing declarations for oaths in China.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above mentioned
At Yantai, China on 30 April 2025
This day of
Wang Chao
Before me
Zhi Fu Notary Public Office Yantai City
60
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the Company) and
its subsidiaries (the Group) which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position of the
Group and the statement of financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and the
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of
changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows of the Group for the year then ended, and
notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information.
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of
financial position of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967 (the Act) and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)s)
which are simultaneously compliant with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) so as to give a true and fair view of the
consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the Company as at 31
December 2024 and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and
consolidated cash flows of the Group for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance
with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and
Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code) together with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in
our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context
of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not
provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the
key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
61
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matters Audit Responses
(1) Significant transaction – Property, plant
and equipment (RMB 119.082 million)
Refer to Notes 5 or 8 to the financial
statements
As at 31 December 2024, the Group recognised
RMB 119.082 million under property, plant and
equipment, representing the total cost of
acquiring leasehold properties located at No. 3
Wolong North Road, Yantai City, PRC.
On 14 June 2024, the Group obtained the official
real estate certificate for the leasehold properties.
The real estate certificate reflects a land area of
17,356 square metres (approximately 4.289 acres)
and a building area of 5,226.85 square metres,
which differ significantly from the areas stated in
the Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA) dated 17
December 2013, entered into with the Huangwu
Subdistrict Office, Zhifu District, Yantai City,
PRC (Local Government).
According to the SPA, the remaining 10% of the
consideration amounting to RMB 13.20 million
was to be settled upon the completion of the
transfer procedures. The total consideration of
RMB 132.00 million was inclusive of taxes and
fees related to the application and issuance of real
estate certificate.
Management has represented that approximately
6,745 square metres of the building areas are
pending registration and are not included in the
land area reported in the real estate certificate.
This has been supported by a valuation performed
by an independent valuer engaged by the
management. The remaining discrepancies of 2.3
acres of land and 628.15 square metres of gross
floor area arose due to portions of the property
being taken over by the Local Government for
development of green belt areas and municipal
roads.
Reviewing and verifying the real estate certificate
to confirm legal ownership of the property,
including the land and building areas disclosed
therein.
Obtaining and evaluating the certificate from the
Local Government to assess the completeness of
the acquisition and to the treatment of the
remaining RMB 13.20 million consideration.
Reviewing supporting documents related to taxes
and fees incurred during the real estate certificate
application and evaluating whether these were
appropriately capitalised.
Assessing the professional valuer’s report
supporting the unregistered building areas and
considered its implications on the recognition and
measurement of the asset.
We noted that management issued a public
announcement disclosing the certificate received
from the Local Government, addressing the
discrepancies, affirming the total acquisition cost,
and confirming transaction completion.
We also considered the disclosures in the financial
statements to be adequate.
62
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matters Audit Responses
Additionally, the Group obtained a certificate
from the Local Government, which
acknowledged and explained the discrepancies in
land and building areas, confirmed the waiver of
the remaining 10% consideration of RMB 13.20
million and affirmed the completion of the
acquisition transaction.
Management has issued a public announcement
disclosing the contents of the certificate received
from the Local Government, which clarifies the
discrepancies in land and building areas, confirms
the total cost of acquisition and affirms the
completeness of the acquisition transaction.
Given the materiality of the transaction and the
complexities arising from discrepancies in land
and building areas, we considered this as a Key
Audit Matter.
(2) Assessment of impairment of property,
plant and equipment (RMB91.750 million)
Refer to Note 8 to the financial statements
As at 31 December 2024, property, plant and
equipment with carrying amount of RMB 91.750
million constituted approximately 82% of the
total assets of the Group. The carrying amount is
after deducting accumulated impairment loss of
RMB 50.491 million.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group
carried out an assessment of its property, plant
and equipment. Management has considered the
external and internal indicators in assessing if any
further impairment or reversal of impairment is to
be recorded.
Should indications of additional or reversal of
impairment exist, an impairment assessment to
estimate the recoverable amount of the asset will
be performed accordingly.
Based on the assessment, an impairment loss of
RMB 44.018 million was recognised at the end of
the reporting period.
We obtained an understanding on the Group’s
policies and procedures to identify impairment
indicators of property, plant and equipment, and
performed the following procedures in relation to
management’s impairment assessments.
Our procedures included, amongst others:
- Obtaining an understanding of and evaluating
management’s process and controls related to
the assessment of the existence of impairment
indicators.
- Reviewing and assessing management’s
assessment of the existence of any
impairment indicators.
- Considering each of the internal and external
factors and assessing whether any indicators
of impairment are present.
- Evaluating the competency of management’s
expert, the valuation methodologies used and
challenge key assumptions applied in the
estimates.
63
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matters Audit Responses
The carrying value of property, plant and
equipment is considered a Key Audit Matter due
to the significance of the amount involved and
the judgements inherent in the impairment
review.
- Performing sensitivity analysis to assess the
impact of changes in key assumptions and
evaluate the reasonableness of management’s
estimates.
- Assessing the adequacy of the relevant
disclosures in the financial statements.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our independent auditor’s report
thereon, which is expected to be made available to us prior to the date of this report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in
accordance with the provisions of the Act, SFRS(I)s which are simultaneously compliant with IFRSs
issued by the IASB, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient
to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or
disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit
the preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
64
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the
basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as
a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the
financial information of the entities or business units within the Group as a basis for forming an
opinion on the group financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
review of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
65
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions
taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company have
been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Xu Shuanghong.
UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
30 April 2025
66
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
67
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
68
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
69
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
70
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
These notes form an integral part of and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial
statements.
1. General information
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Singapore with its registered office
located at 60 Paya Lebar Road, #08-10, Paya Lebar Square, Singapore 409051, and principal place
of business of the Group at No.3 North Wolong Road, Yantai City, Shandong Province, People’s
Republic of China (PRC).
The Company also has a registered office in Malaysia. The registered office address is at E-10-4,
Megan Avenue 1, 189, Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.
The Company is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Securities).
The principal activity of the Company is that of investment holding. The principal activities of the
subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant
changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 were authorised for issue
by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2025.
2. Material accounting policy information
2.1 Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
Singapore Companies Act (the Act), Singapore Financial Reporting Standards
(International) (SFRS(I)s) which are simultaneously compliant with the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB).
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as
disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Group’s principal operations are conducted in People’s Republic of China (PRC) and
hence the financial statements are presented in Chinese renminbi (RMB), being the
functional and presentation currency of the Company and the Group respectively. All
financial information is presented in RMB rounded to the nearest thousand (RMB’000)
unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared on the basis that it will continue
to operate as a going concern.
71
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
Adoption of new and amended standards and interpretations
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year
except that in the current financial year, the Group has adopted all the new and revised
SFRS(I)s and Interpretations of SFRS(I)s (INT SFRS(I)s) that are relevant to its operations
and effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2024. The adoption of these
new/revised SFRS(I)s and INT SFRS(I)s does not result in changes to the Group’s
accounting policies and has no material effect on the amounts reported for the current or
prior financial years.
2.2 Foreign currency transactions and balances
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured
using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates
(functional currency). The financial statements of the Company and the Group are
presented in RMB, which is also the functional currency of the Company.
(b) Transactions and balances
Transactions in a currency other than the functional currency (foreign currency) are
translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions. Currency translation differences arising from the settlement of such
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies at the closing rates at the end of the reporting period are
recognised in profit or loss. Non-monetary items are not retranslated at the end of the
reporting period and are measured at historical cost (translated using the exchange
rates at transaction date), except for non-monetary items measured at fair value which
are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
2.3 Basis of consolidation
(a) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted using the acquisition method as at the
acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. The
consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at
the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration
given.
72
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.3 Basis of consolidation (continued)
(a) Business combinations (continued)
The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-
controlling interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised
amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree, at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity
securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are
expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the
acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the
acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Non-controlling interests are that part of the net results of operations and of net assets
of a subsidiary attributable to the interests which are not owned directly or indirectly
by the equity holders of the Company. They are shown separately in the consolidated
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in
equity and statement of financial position. Total comprehensive income is attributed
to the non-controlling interest based on their respective interests in a subsidiary, even
if the subsidiary incurred losses and the losses allocated exceed the non-controlling
interest in the subsidiary’s equity.
Consolidation of the subsidiary in the PRC is based on the subsidiary’s financial
statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. Profits reflected in the financial
statements prepared in accordance with IFRS may differ from those reflected in the
PRC statutory financial statements of the subsidiary, prepared for PRC reporting
purposes. In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, profits available for
distribution by the PRC subsidiary are based on the amounts stated in the PRC
statutory financial statements.
(b) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when
it is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries
are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the Company’s statement of financial
position at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
73
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.3 Basis of consolidation (continued)
(c) Transaction eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised
gains, but only to the extent there is no evidence of impairment.
2.4 Financial instruments
(a) Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the entity becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instruments.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in
the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL),
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Trade receivables are measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a
customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third party, if the trade
receivables do not contain a significant financing component at initial recognition.
Subsequent measurement
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model
for managing the asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset. The
three measurement categories for classification of debt instruments are amortised cost,
fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and FVPL. The Group has
debt instruments at amortised cost and FVPL.
Financial assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those
cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at
amortised cost. Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method, less impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the assets are derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process.
74
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.4 Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Financial assets (continued)
Derecognition
A financial asset is derecognised where the contractual right to receive cash flows
from the asset has expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the
difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received
and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive
income for debt instruments is recognised in profit or loss.
(b) Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party
to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. The Group determines the
classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus in the case of
financial liabilities not at FVPL, directly.
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, financial liabilities that are not carried at FVPL are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains
and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised, and
through the amortisation process.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is
discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition, the difference between the
carrying amounts and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
2.5 Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for all debt
instruments not held at FVPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual
cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects
to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The
expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit
enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
75
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.5 Impairment of financial assets (continued)
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit
losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12 months (a 12-
month ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in
credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is recognised for credit losses expected
over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of timing of the default (a lifetime
ECL).
For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss
allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a
provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-
looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment which could affect
the debtors’ ability to pay.
The Group considers a financial asset in default when contractual payments are 60 days
past due. However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to be in
default when internal or external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive
the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit
enhancements held by the Group. A financial asset is written off when there is no
reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
For other receivables, credit loss allowance is based on 12-month expected credit loss if
there is no significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the assets. If there
is a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, lifetime expected credit loss
will be calculated and recognised.
2.6 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and cash on hand which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value.
2.7 Property, plant and equipment
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Subsequent to
recognition, property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and
equipment includes its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner
intended by management. Dismantlement, removal or restoration costs are included as part
of the cost of property, plant and equipment if the obligation for dismantlement, removal or
restoration is incurred as a consequence of acquiring or using the property, plant and
equipment.
76
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.7 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method
to allocate depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Useful lives
Leasehold properties 44 years
Buildings 20 years
Plant and machinery 5 to 20 years
Motor vehicles 4 to 5 years
Office equipment 5 years
Renovations 5 to 10 years
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements
until they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of
these property, plant and equipment.
The residual value, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on derecognition
of the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may
be impaired. If any indication exists, (or, where applicable, when an annual impairment
testing for an asset is required), the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable
amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair
value less costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset,
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from
other assets or group of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating
unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to
its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its
recoverable amount. That increase cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised previously.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
77
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.9 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using
the weighted average method and comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
When necessary, inventories are written down for damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
items to adjust the carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
2.10 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive)
as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be
estimated reliably.
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the
current best estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will
be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value
of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects,
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase
in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
2.11 Taxes
(a) Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
authority. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax
relates to items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in
the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are
subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the
reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts for financial reporting purposes.
78
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.11 Taxes (continued)
(b) Deferred tax (continued)
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except:
- Where the deferred tax liability arises from an asset or liability in a transaction
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
- In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be
utilised except:
- Where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference
arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is
not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
- In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries and associate, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable
future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting
period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable
profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period
and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit
will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of each
reporting period.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside
profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying
transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred
tax arising from a business combination is adjusted against goodwill on acquisition.
79
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.11 Taxes (continued)
(b) Deferred tax (continued)
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right
exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
(c) Value added tax (VAT)
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of VAT except:
• where the VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable
from the taxation authority, in which case the VAT is recognised as part of the
cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
• receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is
included as part of receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
2.12 Share capital
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares are recognised as share capital in equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares are deducted
against share capital.
2.13 Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third parties.
Revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a
promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains control of
the good or service. A performance obligation may be satisfied at a point in time or over
time. The amount of revenue recognised is the amount allocated to the satisfied
performance obligation.
80
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.13 Revenue (continued)
Revenue from sale of red wines
The Group sells red wine imported from overseas markets to its customers. Contract is
identified with customer confirms with reference to the sales contract signed by both parties.
Upon receipt of acknowledged delivery orders from customer, the person in charge of
invoicing customer will generate sales invoice with reference to the per price list stipulated
in the sales contract and delivery order documents for items sold.
Revenue is recognised when the goods have been transferred to the customer in accordance
with the acknowledged delivery order (i.e. at a point in time).
2.14 Employee benefits
(a) Employee leave entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised as a liability when they accrue
to employees. The estimated liability for annual leave is recognised for services
rendered by employees up to the end of the reporting period.
(b) Pension obligations
The Group participates in the defined contribution national pension and other welfare
schemes as provided by the laws of the countries in which has operations.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in the same financial year
as the employment that gives rise to the contributions.
Pursuant to the relevant regulations in the People’s Republic of China, a subsidiary of
the Company in the People’s Republic of China participates in a local municipal
government retirement benefits scheme (the Scheme), whereby the subsidiary is
required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries of its employees to the
Scheme to fund their retirement benefits.
The local municipal government undertakes to assume the retirement benefits
obligations of all existing and future retired employees of the subsidiary. The only
obligation of the subsidiary with respect to the Scheme is to pay the ongoing required
contributions under the Scheme mentioned above. Contributions under the Scheme
are charged to profit or loss as incurred. There are no provisions under the Scheme
whereby forfeited contributions may be used to reduce future contributions.
81
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
2. Material accounting policy information (continued)
2.15 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business
activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses (including revenue and
expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for
which discrete financial information is available.
3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and
liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the end of each reporting period.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material
adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in the future periods.
3.1 Judgements made in applying accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described in Note 2,
management has made the following judgements apart from those involving estimates,
which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements:
Withholding taxes arising from PRC subsidiary’s undistributed earnings
The Group’s determination as to whether to recognise deferred tax for withholding taxes
that would be payable on the undistributed earnings of the subsidiary, that are subject to
withholding taxes according to the relevant tax jurisdiction, is subject to judgement on the
timing of the dividend payment.
In 2024, the Group considered that it is not probable that the subsidiary will distribute such
earnings in the foreseeable future due to its continuing operating losses and accumulated
losses as at 31 December 2024.
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty
at the end of the reporting period are discussed below. The Group based its assumptions
and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared.
Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change
due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group. Such
changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
82
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates (continued)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
(a) Provision for expected credit losses (ECLs) of trade receivables
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables. The
provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer
segments that have similar loss patterns.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default
rates. The Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust historical credit loss experience
with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, historical default rates
are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast
economic conditions and ECLs is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is
sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The
Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future. The information
about the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables is disclosed in Note 21(a).
The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December 2024 is Nil
(2023 : RMB 28,000).
(b) Inventory valuation method
Inventory write-down is made based on the current market conditions, historical
experience and selling goods of similar nature. It could change significantly as a result
of changes in market conditions. A review is made periodically on inventories for
excess inventories, obsolescence and declines in net realisable value and an allowance
is recorded against the inventory balances for any such declines. The realisable value
represents the best estimate of the recoverable amount and is based on the most reliable
evidence available and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected
realisable value.
The carrying amount of the Group’s inventories as at 31 December 2024 is RMB
1,628,000 (2023 : RMB 4,929,000). If the future expected realisable value lower by
10% of its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the Group’s inventories would have
been RMB 162,800 (2023 : RMB 492,900) lower.
(c) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Management estimates the useful lives of property, plant and equipment to be within
4 to 44 years. These are common life expectancies applied in the relevant industry.
The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment is disclosed in
Note 8 to the financial statements. Changes in the expected level of usage and
technological development could impact the economic useful lives and the residual
values of these assets. Hence, future depreciation charges could be revised.
83
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates (continued)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
(d) Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for property,
plant and equipment in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2.8.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group carried out an assessment of its property,
plant and equipment. Management has considered the external and internal
indicators in assessing if any further impairment or reversal of impairment is to be
recorded.
Should indications of additional or reversal of impairment exist, an impairment
assessment to estimate the recoverable amount of the asset will be performed
accordingly.
During the financial year, following the issuance of the real estate certificate and
capitalisation of the refundable deposit as leasehold properties, the Group engaged an
independent valuer to perform a valuation of the leasehold properties and existing
buildings, as disclosed in Note 8.
The key assumptions used in the assessment were as follows:
- Projected revenue growth rate: 1.97% per annum
- Discount rate: 4.68%
The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment as at 31
December 2024 is RMB 91,750,000 (2023 : RMB 19,778,000).
4. Cash and cash equivalents
The total cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2024 and 2023 are not freely remissible for
use by the Group because of currency exchange restrictions.
84
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
5. Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the average credit period is between 30 to 150
(2023 : 30 to 150) days.
There is no other class of financial asset that is past due and/or impaired except for trade
receivables.
85
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
5. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Expected credit losses
The movements in allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables computed based on
lifetime ECL was as follows:
Non-trade amount due from subsidiary is unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. This
amount is fully impaired in 2024 and 2023.
*Refundable deposits
On 17 December 2013, the Group entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA) with
Huangwu Subdistrict Office, Zhifu District, Yantai City, PRC (Local Government) to acquire all
the land, buildings and ancillary facilities including 320KVA power distribution equipment, water
supply system, roads surrounding the factory and enclosing wall (collectively the Assets) located
at No. 3 Wolong North Road, Yantai City which the Group has been leasing since 1997, for a total
cash consideration of RMB 132,000,000. The building has a gross floor area measuring
approximately 12,600 square metres and the land has an area of 40 Mu (approximately 6.589
acres). Pursuant to the SPA, the Group had made a down payment of RMB 118,800,000 which
amount was recorded as a refundable deposit.
The salient terms of the acquisition as set out in the SPA are as follows:
• The transfer cost, transfer ownership fee and all relevant taxes and other expenses, etc
would be borne by the Local Government.
• The Group agreed to pay 60% of the total consideration within 5 days from the date of SPA
(“First Payment”) and at the same time, the Local Government agreed to cease all
rental/lease charges to the Group. Subsequently, 30% of the total consideration (“Second
Payment”) is to be paid by 30 December 2013 and the remaining 10% of the consideration
to be settled upon completion of the transfer procedures and have been disclosed as capital
commitments in Note 19.
86
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
5. Trade and other receivables (continued)
• The Local Government was required to complete the transfer procedures within four
months of the Second Payment.
• Any liabilities incurred before 31 December 2013 would be borne by the Local
Government.
• The Local Government confirmed that the Assets are free from other encumbrances.
In relation to the acquisition of the Assets as described above, the directors are of the view that:
(i) The Assets are acquired for use as production facilities and office;
(ii) The transfer procedures will include a transfer of land use rights of up to 50 years from the
date of acquisition and a further option for renewal upon expiry of 50 years of industrial
and/or commercial land;
(iii) In the event that the transaction is not completed, the deposits of RMB 118,800,000 will be
refunded to the Group.
(iv) In the directors’ own assessment, the total purchase consideration is based on the prevailing
market value of the Assets at the time of acquisition and the fair value of the Assets
acquired equals to or exceeds the acquisition cost as at the report date.
On 14 June 2024, the Group obtained the real estate certificate for the properties located at No. 3
Wolong North Road, Yantai City, PRC. The real estate certificate reflects a land area of 17,356
square metres (approximately 4.289 acres) and a building area of 5,226.85 square metres, which
differ significantly from the areas stated in the SPA.
In addition, according to the SPA, the remaining 10% of the consideration amounting to RMB
13,200,000 was to be settled upon the completion of the transfer procedures. The total
consideration of RMB 132,000,000 was inclusive of taxes and fees related to the application and
issuance of real estate certificate.
Management has represented that approximately 6,745 square metres of the building areas are
pending registration and are not included in the gross floor area reported in the real estate
certificate. This has been supported by a valuation performed by an independent valuer engaged by
the management. The remaining discrepancies of 2.3 acres of land and 628.15 square metres of
gross floor area arose due to portions of the property being taken over by the Local Government
for development of green belt areas and municipal roads.
Additionally, the Group obtained a certificate from the Local Government, which acknowledged
and explained the discrepancies in land and building areas, confirmed the waiver of the remaining
10% consideration of RMB 13.20 million and affirmed the completion of the acquisition
transaction.
Management has issued a public announcement disclosing the contents of the certificate received
from the Local Government, which clarifies the discrepancies in land and building areas, confirms
the total cost of acquisition and affirms the completeness of the acquisition transaction.
87
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
6. Inventories
7. Investments in subsidiaries
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Country of
incorporation/
Place of Percentage of
Name of subsidiaries operation equity held Principal activities
2024 2023
% %
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua People’s 95 95 Trading in red wines
Winery Co. Ltd.(1) Republic
of China
Recap Resources Sdn. Bhd.(2) Malaysia - 100 Dormant
(1) Audited by UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
(2) Recap Resources Sdn. Bhd. was struck off from the Companies Commission of Malaysia on
13 November 2024.
88
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
7. Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Impairment testing of investment in Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd. (“YFOWCL”)
Management has made full impairment on the Company’s investment in YFOWCL since year
2018. In the previous financial year, YFOWCL has a change of principal activity to trading in red
wines. It has moved from production of wines and sale of its self-produced wines. The
impairment was made due to YFOWCL continuous business losses due to loss of major market.
In the financial years 2024 and 2023, management assesses that there are no indicators of reversal
of impairment on investment in subsidiary.
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 202
89
4
8. Property, plant and equipment
Group
2024
90
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
8. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Group
2023
91
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
8. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant and equipment of the Group with a total cost of RMB 54,092,000 (2023 : RMB
54,092,000) was previously used in production of wine that had ceased to operate since 2022.
Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment
During the financial year, following the issuance of the real estate certificate and capitalisation of
the refundable deposit as leasehold properties, the Group engaged an independent valuer to
perform a valuation of the leasehold properties and existing buildings. Arising from the valuation,
an additional impairment loss of RMB 44,018,000 was recognised in “administrative expenses”
(Note 15) in profit or loss.
The recoverable amount of the leasehold properties and buildings were based on fair value less
costs of disposal. The valuation method used is that of the market approach.
The key assumptions used in the assessment were as follows:
- Projected revenue growth rate: 1.97% per annum
- Discount rate: 4.68%
The projected revenue growth rate is based on historical trends for rental yield in Yantai Province.
The Group has examined the local economic conditions, including historical data on rental income,
demand for property and market performance from year 2006 to 2023. This growth rate represents
management’s expectation of continued stability and moderate growth in rental yields in the
region, taking into account factors such as real estate market trends, local economic indicators, and
expected inflation. The projected revenue growth rate is also consistent with external market
expectations for the region’s property sector, including studies by industry analysts on the long-
term outlook for commercial and residential rental markets in Yantai.
The discount rate applied in the impairment assessment is derived from the China 10-year
government bond rate, which is considered a risk-free rate for long-term investments. The rate is
then adjusted for both market and industry-specific risks to reflect the particular uncertainties
associated with the Group’s operations and property holdings.
In the current financial year ended 31 December 2024, management assesses that there are no
indicators for the reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment in view of these assets
are no longer in use upon the cessation of production activities by the subsidiary.
92
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
9. Trade and other payables
Non-trade amounts due to directors are unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash on demand.
10. Share capital
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
Company. All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and have no par
value.
93
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
11. Other reserves
(a) Statutory reserve
The Group follows the accounting principles and relevant financial regulations of the
People’s Republic of China (PRC) in the preparation of the accounting records and
statutory financial statements of the PRC subsidiary.
In accordance with the Foreign Enterprise Law applicable to the subsidiary in the PRC,
the subsidiary is required to make appropriation to a Statutory Reserve Fund (SRF). At
least 10% of the statutory after tax profits as determined in accordance with the
applicable PRC accounting standards and regulations must be allocated to the SRF until
the cumulative total of the SRF reaches 50% of the subsidiary’s registered capital.
Subject to approval from the relevant PRC authorities, the SRF may be used to increase
the registered capital of the subsidiary. The SRF is not available for dividend distribution
to shareholders.
(b) Capital reserve
The capital reserve relates to the purchase consideration payable for the acquisition of the
PRC subsidiary which was waived by the major shareholder of the subsidiary.
12. Revenue
(a) Disaggregation of revenue
Revenue is recognised at a point in time.
(b) Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations
As permitted under FRS 115, the aggregated transaction price allocated to unsatisfied
contracts of period one year or less is not disclosed.
94
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
13. Other income
14. Employee benefits expense
15. Loss before tax
Loss before tax has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
95
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
16. Income tax expense
There is no income tax expense as the Group has no taxable income for the current and previous
financial years.
Relationship between tax expense and accounting loss
A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting loss multiplied by the
applicable corporate tax rate for the financial years ended 31 December 2024 and 2023 were as
follows:
At 31 December 2024, the Group has unabsorbed tax losses of approximately RMB 18,957,000
(2023 : RMB 21,698,000), which can be carried forward to offset against future taxable income
subject to compliance with the relevant tax legislation and agreement with the tax authorities.
Included in unabsorbed tax losses for year 2023 is an amount of RMB 3,774,000 incurred in
year 2019 which had expired at end of reporting period.
The potential tax benefit of approximately RMB 4,739,000 (2023 : RMB 5,425,000) arising
from unabsorbed tax losses has not been recognised due to the uncertainty of its recoverability.
The details of tax losses that will expire are as follows:
Year incurred Expiry date Unrecognised tax losses
RMB’000
2020 31 December 2025 4,109
2021 31 December 2026 2,757
2022 31 December 2027 3,272
2023 31 December 2028 7,787
2024 31 December 2029 1,032
96
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
17. Loss per share
The basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the owners of the Company is computed
as follows:
Diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share as the Company does not have potential
dilutive shares for both the financial years.
18. Related party transactions
In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
following significant transactions between the Group and related parties took place at terms
agreed between the parties during the financial year:
97
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
18. Related party transactions (continued)
The remuneration of key management personnel is determined by the board of directors having
regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
There were no employer’s contributions to defined contribution plans as the key management
personnel have reached the regulated retirement age.
19. Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for as at the end of the reporting period but not recognised in the
financial statements are as follows:
In 2023, the capital commitment of RMB 13,200,000 relates to the remaining 10% of the
consideration to be settled upon completion of the transfer of real estate certificate for the
leasehold properties located at No. 3 Wolong North Road, Yantai City, PRC, in accordance
with the Sale and Purchase Agreement with the Huangwu Subdistrict Office, Zhifu, Yantai City,
PRC (Local Government) on 17 December 2013.
The Group obtained a certificate from the Local Government, which confirmed the waiver of
the remaining 10% consideration and affirmed that the acquisition transaction had been
completed. Management has also issued a public announcement disclosing this confirmation.
Accordingly, there is no capital commitment relating to leasehold properties to be disclosed as
at 31 December 2024.
98
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
20. Segment information
For management reporting purposes, the Group operates in a single reportable business segment
as follows:
Red wine
The red wine segment relates to the business trading of purchased wines.
The segment information provided to management for the reportable segment is as follows:
Segment accounting policies are the same as the policies of the Group as described in Note 2.
(a) Geographical information
Segmented information by geographical region is not applicable for the financial years
ended 31 December 2024 and 2023 as the business operations of the Group is only carried
out in the PRC.
99
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
20. Segment information (continued)
(b) Information about major customers
Revenue from top 5 (2023 : 4) major customers for the financial year ended 31 December
2024 amounted to RMB 10,652,000 (2023 : RMB 11,974,000) and accounted for 75%
(2023 : 77%) of the Group’s revenue.
21. Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks from its operations. The key
financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including interest rate risk and
foreign currency risk).
The directors review and agree policies and procedures for the management of these risks, which
are executed by the management team. It is, and has been throughout the current and previous
financial year, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes shall be
undertaken.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to the abovementioned
financial risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
which it manages and measures the risks.
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the potential risk of financial loss resulting from the failure of a customer or
counterparty to settle its financial and contractual obligations to the Group as and when
they fall due.
Management has a credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis.
The Group manages credit risk through vigilant follow up of receivables.
At the end of the reporting period, approximately 92% (2023 : 92%) of the Group’s trade
receivables were due from 4 (2023 : 4) major customers located in the PRC. The
maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial
asset in the statements of financial position. Cash is placed with banks that are regulated.
The Group uses the following categories of internal credit risk rating for financial assets
which are subject to expected credit losses under the 3-stage general approach. These
four categories reflect the respective credit risk and how the loss provision is determined
for each of those categories.
100
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
21. Financial risk management (continued)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
Category of internal Basis for recognition of
credit rating Definition of category expected credit losses
Performing Borrower or issuer have a low risk 12-month expected
of default and a strong capacity to credit losses
meet contractual cash flows
Under-performing Significant increase in credit risk as Lifetime expected credit
significant in credit risk is presumed losses
if interest and/or principal repayment
are more than 90 days past due
Non-performing Interest and/or principal payment Lifetime expected credit
are 120 days past due losses
Write-off Interest and/or principal repayments Asset is written off
are 180 days past due and there is
no reasonable expectation of recovery
Performing Borrower or issuer have a low risk 12-month expected
The table below details the credit quality of the Group’s trade receivables, as well as
maximum exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating categories:
101
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
21. Financial risk management (continued)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in SFRS(I) 9 to
measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. The Group determines the ECL by using a
provision matrix, estimated based on historical credit loss experience based on the past
due status of the debtors, adjusted as appropriate to reflect current conditions and
estimates of future economic conditions. Accordingly, the credit risk profile of trade
receivables is presented based on their past due status in terms of the provision matrix.
102
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
21. Financial risk management (continued)
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its
short-term obligations due to shortage of funds. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. It is
managed by matching the payment and receipt cycles. The Group’s objective is to
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of
standby credit facilities.
All financial liabilities in 2024 and 2023 are repayable on demand or due within one year
from the end of the reporting period.
(c) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign
exchange rates will affect the Group’s income. The objective of market risk management
is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while
optimising the return on risk.
(i) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or cash flows of the Group’s
financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is not exposed to interest rate risk as it has no interest-bearing
liabilities as at 31 December 2024 and 2023.
(ii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises from changes in foreign exchange rates that may have
an adverse effect on the Group in the current reporting period or in future years.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk relates mainly to its financial assets
and financial liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of each entity in the Group. The currencies giving rise to this
risk are primarily with respect to Singapore dollar (SGD) and Malaysian ringgit
(MYR).
103
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
21. Financial risk management (continued)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Foreign currency risk (continued)
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is insignificant.
104
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
22. Financial instruments by category
At the reporting date, the aggregate carrying amounts of financial assets at amortised cost and
financial liabilities at amortised cost were as follows:
23. Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern and to maintain an adequate and efficient capital structure so as to
maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or achieve an optimal capital structure, the
Group may issue new shares or obtain additional borrowings.
No changes were made to the policies or processes of capital management since the previous
financial year.
The subsidiary of the Group in the PRC is required to contribute to and maintain a non-
distributable statutory reserve fund which utilisation is subject to approval by the relevant PRC
authorities.
105
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
24. Fair value of financial instruments
(a) Fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value
Fair value hierarchy
The Group classifies fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
 Level 1 - Quote prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
 Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs).
(b) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and
whose carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value
Management has determined that the carrying amounts of current financial assets and
liabilities approximate their fair values because these instruments are short-term in nature
or repriced frequently.
25. Comparative information
The independent auditor’s report dated 30 April 2024 contained a qualified opinion on the
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. Below is the extract of the
basis for qualifies opinion.
Extracted from auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2023
Basis for Qualified opinion
Deposits for purchase of property, plant and equipment
As disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements, included in trade and other receivables are
deposits of RMB 118,800,000 representing 90% of the total purchase price of RMB 132,000,000
which the Group had paid to Huangwu Subdistrict Office, Zhifu District, Yantai City (the Local
Government) under a sale and purchase agreement (the SPA) entered into between the Group
and the Local Government on 17 December 2013 for the purchase by the Group of the Assets as
described in Note 5 (the Transaction). Pursuant to the SPA, in the event that the Transaction is
not completed, the Local Government will refund the deposits of RMB 118,800,000 to the
Group. As at the date of this report, the procedures in relation to the Transaction are pending
completion.
106
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
25. Comparative information (continued)
Deposits for purchase of property, plant and equipment (continued)
We have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to satisfy ourselves with
respect to the extent of recoverability and valuation of the deposits of RMB 118,800,000 in the
event that the Transaction is not completed. Consequently, we are unable to determine whether
any adjustments to the carrying amount of the deposits as at 31 December 2023 are necessary.
Our audit opinion on the financial statements for the previous financial year was qualified due to
the same reason.
In 2024, as disclosed in Note 5, the Group obtained the real estate certificate for the leasehold
properties located at No. 3 Wolong North Road, Yantai City, PRC, marking the completion of
the long outstanding land and buildings acquisition transaction. The refundable deposit of RMB
118,800,000 has been capitalised as leasehold properties in the current year, as disclosed in Note
8.
26. Standards issued but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standard that have been issued are not yet
effective and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Description Effective for annual
periods beginning
on or after
Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements 1 January 2027
Amendments to SFRS(I) 9 and SFRS(I) 7: Amendments to the 1 January 2026
Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
Annual Improvements to SFRS(I)s—Volume 11 1 January 2026
Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures 1 January 2027
Amendments to SFRS(I) 9 and SFRS(I) 7: Contracts Referencing 1 January 2026
Nature-dependent Electricity
The directors expect that the adoption of these new and amended standards will have no material
impact on the financial statements in the year of initial application.
Notes:
* Deemed interest by virtue of him being the sole shareholder of Hua Xin International Holdings Limited.
Voting rights : One vote per ordinary share
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
Analysis of Shareholdings
Issued and paid-up Ordinary Share Capital : SGD5,500,100 comprising 535,450,000 ordinary shares
RM79,530,000 comprising 132,550,000 ordinary shares
AS AT 14/04/2025
Class of shares : Ordinary shares
REMARK : * - LESS THAN 5% OF ISSUED SHARES
** - 5% AND ABOVE OF ISSUED SHARES
INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS’
SHAREHOLDINGS
ANALYSIS BY SIZE OF HOLDINGS AS AT 14/04/2025
(MALAYSIA & FOREIGN - COMBIN
Annual Report 2024
E)
107
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)
NO. SHAREHOLDERS NO. OF SHARES
DEEMED INTEREST
NAME OF SUBSTANTIAL
SHAREHOLDERS
%
DIRECT INTEREST
% NO. OF SHARES
SUMMARY
TOTAL PERCENTAGE (%)
TOTAL NO. OF HOLDERS
TOTAL HOLDINGS
：
：
：
Hua Xin International
Holdings Limited
– –
1.
AS AT 14/04/202
Annual Report 2024
5
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
INFORMATION ON SUBSTANTIAL HOLDERS' HOLDINGS AS AT 14/04/2025
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
2
182,400,000 27.3054
288,786,900
2
43.2316
108
.
CHIN KUAN HAOK @
CHEN KOH FOOK 106,386,900 15.9262
– –
Substantial Shareholders
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)
NO. NAME
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT 14/ /2025
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)
Annual Report 2024
109
HOLDINGS %
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)
NO. NAME HOLDINGS %
Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS
LIMITED
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT 4 5(cont'd)
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)
110
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)
NO. NAME HOLDINGS %
SUMMARY
TOTAL PERCENTAGE (%)
TOTAL NO. OF HOLDERS
TOTAL HOLDINGS
：
：
：
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT 4 5(cont'd)
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)
Annual Report 2024
68.1824
30
455,458,300
111
112
List of Properties
As at 31 December 2024
No. Location Description Land Area Tenure
Date of
Acquistion
Existing Use Age(year)
Expire
Date
Net book value as
at
31/12/2024(RMB)
1.
No.1 Wolong North
Road,Wolong Foreign
Investment Development
Zone,Zhifu District,Yantai
City,PRC
One(1) storey
warehouse/sample
room/wine cellar
Approximately
1,400 Sq m(Built-up
area of 2,000 Sq m)
Freehold 31 Dec 2011
Warehouse
sample room
wine cellar
13 6,539,722
2.
No.3 Wolong North Road, Zhifu
District,Yantai City,PRC
The property purchased is
a factory, includes all
the land,buildings, green
belt area and Roads
surrounding the factory,
all related supporting
equipment and facilities,
and the factory is located
in a big yard which has
clear boundaries
Approximately
26,667 Sq m
(Built-up area of
12,000 Sq m)
Freehold 17 Dec 2013
Offices
dormitory
electrical
room canteen
boiler room
workshops
11 84,507,309
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
(Company Registration Number 200900709K)
(Malaysia Foreign Company Registration No. 200902000053 (995226-U))
PROXY FORM CDS Account No.
No. of shares held
I/We Tel:
[Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of
being member(s) of CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and / or* (*delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as my/our proxy(ies) to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at
the 2025 Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be conducted at Level 18, Vida Bukit Ceylon,
No 1D Jalan Ceylon, 50200 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Thursday, 26 June 2025 at
10.00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof.
Resolution For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for an amount not
exceeding RM92,000.00 for the financial year ending 31
December 2025.
1
2. To re-elect Wang, Chao retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the
Constitution of the Company.
2
3. To re-elect Zhang, FuWei, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of
the Constitution of the Company.
3
4. To re-elect Chen, AnLi, retiring pursuant to Clause 117 of the
Constitution of the Company.
4
5. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors
of the Company and to authorize the Directors to fix their
remuneration.
5
6. To grant authority for the issuance and allotment of new
ordinary shares pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act
(Chapter 50) of Singapore.
6
7. To grant authority for Sun Huifeng to continue in office as
Independent Non-Executive Director.
7
8. To grant authority for Zhang Fuwei to continue in office as
Independent Non-Executive Director.
8
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the
resolutions. In the absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this day of
Contact No: ____________________ Signature*
Member/Common Seal
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under
seal in accordance with the constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under
which your corporation is incorporated.
Notes:
1. A member of the Company shall be entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or
any of his rights to attend, participate, speak and vote at meeting of members of the Company. A
member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that the member
specifies the proportion of the member’s shareholdings to be represented by each proxy. A proxy may
but need not be a member of the Company.
2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act, 1991 (“SICDA”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect
of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the
said securities account.
3. For a member of the Company who is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in
the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there
is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of
each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee
defined under SICDA which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1)
of SICDA.
4. Where a member or the authorised nominee appoints more than two (2) proxies, or where an exempt
authorised nominee appoints more than one (1) proxy in respect of each omnibus account to attend
and vote at the same meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless the proportion of shareholdings
to be represented by each proxy is specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing signed by the appointor or by his attorney who
is authorised in writing. In the case of a corporation, the instrument appointing proxy(ies) must be
made either under its common seal or signed by an officer or an attorney duly authorised.
6. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the 2025 AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the
appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the Proxy Form must be deposited at the
Share Registrar’s office at GAP Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1, 189, Jalan Tun
Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic form
The Proxy Form can be email to ir.shareregistry@gapadvisory.my.
7. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Proxy Form are completed, signed and dated
accordingly.
8. Last date and time for lodging the Proxy Form is Tuesday, 24 June 2025 at 10:00 a.m.
9. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be
deposited with the Share Registrar’s office at Gap Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1, 189,
Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48)
hours before the time appointed for holding the 2025 AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the
person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in
the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
10. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the
ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED certificate of appointment of authorised representative with the
Share Registrar’s office at GAP Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1, 189, Jalan Tun Razak,
50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated.
11. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this 2025 AGM, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, the
Record of Depositors as at 18 June 2025. Only a member whose name appears on this Record of
Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this 2025 AGM or appoint proxies to attend and vote in
his stead.
(i) PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY
By submitting a proxy form appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at
the Annual General Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to
the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the
purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and
representatives appointed for the Annual General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the
preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the Annual
General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to
comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the
“Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of
such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its
agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees
that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands,
losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
