IN CONVERSATION
WITH OUR GROUP CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Dear Stakeholders,
MSM Group is gaining turnaround momentum as we
fortify fundamentals and focus on strategic goals. Working
as one team through this challenging year, we achieved
over 60% of MSM’s Key Strategic Initiative targets for
FY2021, and registered a profit of RM125.35 million.
This has led to significant achievements such as:
One of the largest
sugar refiners in
the global sugar
industry
Gula Prai ranking
3rd
most chosen FMCG
brand in Malaysia
Leading as the pride
of the nation’s sugar
industry with a
majority hold of the
domestic market
share
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
56
Syed Feizal Syed Mohammad
Group Chief Executive Officer
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 57
What was your first priority as
MSM Group’s GCEO?
As strong roots are required for sustainable growth, my first priority, coming
from an oil and gas background, was to instill a strong focus on Safety, Quality
and Governance within MSM. In fact, my first act as GCEO was to meet with
MSM’s safety officer and then review the corporate charters on HSES, Quality,
Diversity & Gender Equality, and Business Ethics & Compliance. These corporate
charters are essential in calibrating the moral compass of the business and navigating
the MSM team towards a world-class performance
mindset - going from good to great, and then from
great to excellent.
This alignment helps build strong positive values
that prioritises working towards operational
optimisation with zero harm to people, property
and the environment. In my engagements with
management and employees, we emphasise
the need to live up to being billed a Group that
has gained one of the top positions in the
world sugar market. This requires adoption of
multinational corporation (MNC) practices and
mindset, and we actively communicate this through
employee engagements on the ground - from our
talks with trade unions to our very young prodigies
of fresh graduates.
In Conversation WITH OUR
Group CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
A
Q
WE emphasise
the needto
live upto being
billed a Group
that has gained
one of the top
positions inthe
world sugar
market.
MSM’S
HSES&Q GOAL:
zero
harm
to people,
property and the
environment
Stepping in as Group Chief Executive Officer on
1 February 2021, Syed Feizal Syed Mohammad has
steered MSM successfully through the first year of
its Turnaround Strategy. He has also been nominated
as a main member of the CEO Action Network (CAN).
THESE TOP 10 QUESTIONS ADDRESS his views and reflections
on FY2021 andtowards fast forwarding a more sustainable
future for ‘Keluarga MSM’.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
58
A
Q
MSM has seen turnaround results under your stewardship in
2021, what achievements are you most proud of?
I was fortunate to come into MSM when a concise
blueprint had already been launched by the previous
management and turnaround strategies were in place.
So the journey towards the improved profitability had
started even before I came in. Most of my work focused
on enhancing the blueprint and business optimisation while
ensuring greater subscription by the workforce towards
governance, integrity and pride in being part of an organisation
that is one of the top in the global sugar industry.
Staying on strategy, the team worked hard to sustain profits
through the four quarters and protect shareholder interest,
despite tremendous challenges affecting production volumes
in FY2021.
What I found really motivating was the confidence of the
investing community in MSM after the announcement of
the fourth quarter 2020 results. There was a sharp recovery
in MSM’s share price which rose four folds growing the
market capitalisation to a high of RM1.40 billion. To me,
that is a vote of confidence from the investing community
on MSM’s new leadership team and MSM Group’s moving
forward plans.
Through this period, MSM has also attracted increased
foreign investor holdings especially from EU countries.
It clearly indicates that we are ticking their checklist on
environment, social and governance (ESG) matters
apart from business sustainability.
Visit by YB Dato’ Seri Idris Jusoh, FELDA Chairman and Senior Management to MSM.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 59
A
Q
How do you intend to maintain market leadership in an era of
greater competition?
With the right attitude ingrained within the leadership team,
there is a solution for every problem. What is required is
the determination to weed out gaps in our service delivery,
ensure we have the best talent in place and taking action
swiftly.
Towards sustaining and growing MSM’s market share,
we are widening our outreach through greater product choice
and customer touchpoints. This requires us to build stronger
relationships with all our customers and understand their
needs better. During the year, we made it a point to engage
and meet decision makers face to face. From personal
meetings at the top-level with leaders of multinational
corporations to on-the-ground visits to hypermarkets,
these engagements allow us to better understand pinch
points, so we can proactively mitigate problems and
improve our value propositions to different customer
segments - wholesalers, industry, export and retailers.
Towards future growth,
we intendto expand our
export business beyond
the Asia Pacific region, and
explore new opportunities
in food business by
thinking beyond sugar in
line withthe MSM Vision.
We also addressed price matrix issues and built on consistent
practices with wholesalers. For industries, we now provide
greater flexibility and reliability in taking on more volume.
For exports, we are going the extra mile to ensure quality and
a better value proposition. Thanks to these efforts, we have
reinforced our market share in FY2021.
Branding too is vital to withstand growing competition.
We have launched brand reinforcement campaigns on
conventional, digital and social media fronts with various
consumer rewards to garner greater engagement. Our latest
“Janji...Gula Peket Hijau” campaign recognises consumer
loyalty and celebrates our customer diversity and unity during
special occasions such as Malaysia’s Independence Day and
Malaysia Day.
In Conversation WITH OUR
Group CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
60
What were the operational highs and lows for the year?
A significant operational high was on the export front as
we successfully increased export markets and secured a
RM290 million refined sugar supply contract with
The Coca-Cola Company (Coca-Cola) for both domestic and
international production. We are proud that our sustainable
practices and good operational reliability elevated our value
proposition among stiff competition. The opportunity to be
part of Coca-Cola’s supply chain, the world’s most valuable
soft drink brand, was part of our export blueprint to be one of
the top global integrated sugar refiners.
This accomplishment is an added boost to MSM Group having
achieved a turnaround in FY2021. It reflects recognition of our
step-up commitment towards the ESG framework, reliability
as a source of sustainable raw sugar supply and capability in
maintaining the highest standard of food safety and quality.
This fortifies MSM’s commitment to deliver on ESG goals with
greater initiative and urgency going forward.
A
Q
Another upside for MSM was that we managed to increase
our Average Selling Prices while stabilising volume, which is
not an easy task. To this end, we initiated a collective strategy
with customers to understand the rise in NY11 pricing that
squeezes refining margins. This increase has helped ensure
profits in a challenging year.
Low points for the year involved the breakdowns and
volume disruptions at MSM plants due to technical matters,
environmental impact and COVID-19 issues. Sadly, we lost four
workers (three employees and a contract worker) as a result
of COVID-19 and early last year a contract worker had a fatal
fall. These incidents exemplify the need to continuously guard
against COVID-19 and lapses in safety procedures to uphold
our goal of zero harm to people, property and environment.
Going forward we are now more mindful and armed with
preventive measures and proactive responses.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 61
What are your plans towards boosting
productivity, especially at MSM Johor?
Towards boosting productivity, we are ready to do things differently - operationally
and structurally. We have reassigned roles to optimise on talents and abilities.
We are ensuring management support in understanding and helping mitigate
barriers and problems while providing enablers with effective tools and resources.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been aligned towards productivity,
so that exemplary actions and practices will be rewarded. We are implementing
short cycle time including Lean Six Sigma (LSS) support. These are some of the
impactful methods employed to ensure MSM Johor registers profitability by
FY2022.
What are MSM’s strategic intents
moving ahead?
We intend to enhance turnaround, stay resilient and unlock our higher potential
by staying agile and proactive. We will be operating within an environment of
transitory inflation with rising costs of NY11 raw sugar, gas energy, freight and
Foreign Exchange (FOREX) to contend with.
For each we have responsive risk management solutions as detailed in our
Corporate Strategy and Business Plan Review. These range from hedging,
intense management monitoring, to growing an eco-system of US dollars as a
natural hedge and other new instruments in ensuring mitigation.
On the business front, we are enhancing opportunities, not just by
optimising volumes but also by focusing on higher margin segments such as
value added products (VAP). Research and development on VAP and health
segment products will be stepped up to leverage on new opportunities.
Diversification into a new food-business segment, as per our stated vision, is also
in the cards.
At the global front, the manufacturing sector is reimagining the future of
manufacturing where conventional models are making way for greater technology
adoption and the key determinants are efficiency, speed and flexibility towards
sustaining competitiveness. The Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) entails infusing
higher value added process of manufacturing through the application of
advanced digitisation, innovative manufacturing technologies and efficient
resource utilisation.
As we extend our business ecosystem in widening the sugar universe in market
regions, products and customers, we have to fully exploit the continental shift
in global trade where these borderless transactions and ESG concerns are
pivotal. MSM Group is in step with Industry4WRD, the National Policy on
IR4.0, which would enable the manufacturing sector to move into IR4.0
and along the way contribute to fulfilling Malaysia’s commitment to the
United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
A
Q
A
Q
Key Strategic Initiatives of
MSM BP23
In Conversation WITH OUR
Group CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Sustainable
Manufacturing
Performance
Improving Sales
Performance
Growing a
Sustainable
Operation with
Better Energy
Planning and Green
Energy
Cost Savings on
Sales & Distribution
Strategic Capital
Management
Expand Export via
Strategic Partnership
Digital
Transformation
towards Industry 4.0
Details can be referred to in the
Corporate Strategy and Business
Plan Review on page 70
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
62
What are the initiatives that have been
planned through the short and medium
term?
To date, MSM is already making headway in several ESG initiatives. We have
structured policies and procedures to ensure we provide decent returns without
any compromise on proper governance. We have a well-composed and experienced
Board that takes a strong stance against mismanagement and corruption,
and champions ESG goals. Accounting report timeliness, quality and disclosures
of materiality have been improved. Board reporting and guidance implementation
translate to greater risk management while pursuing opportunities on operational
excellence.
Nevertheless, we require a more substantive framework with improved recording
and disclosures. To this end, MSM is significantly escalating our ESG framework
and working towards subscribing to the SBTI and Net Zero commitment under
the United Nations Global Compact.
A
Q
Details on our ESG initiatives and performance for FY2021 are disclosed in our
Sustainability Report on page 118
A
Q
How has MSM
positively
contributed to
employee and
community
welfare?
MSM has adopted a “People First”
approach to both our internal
and external communities. We refer to
our employees as “Keluarga MSM” and
their welfare takes precedence when it
matters most. Charity begins at home
so we want to provide care beyond the
ordinary for all employees as and when
needed and appropriately so. This has
been demonstrated during the year’s
turmoils involving COVID-19 and the
recent floods.
A number of our colleagues were
badly affected by the pandemic and
floods, and in line with our People First
approach we established task forces
to monitor, communicate and aid
those affected closely with established
hotlines of contact persons at any time
required. The task force comprises
mainly members from People Partner
and HSES&Q, and maintains close
reporting and feedback to management
who are equally contactable for help.
Other than a substantial Welfare
and Zakat budget to aid employees
financially in times of need, we render
help beyond financial, and beyond
the conventional. We offered jobs
to the children of the deceased
breadwinners in the three cases
of COVID-19 fatalities among our
employees in FY2021.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 63
We offered flood-assistance such as contract cleaners to
help with the clean-up of the affected houses, and additional
compassionate leave to affected employees. In addition,
insurance policies for all employees have been updated during
the year with extra benefits including coverage for spouse.
Apart from taking care of our affected employees,
MSM extended sympathy to the affected public and
provided tangible help to state and country-wide flood centres
that were affected with prompt food aid. Over 5,000kg of
Gula Prai refined sugar was handed over to be distributed
to flood victims in Klang Valley, Pahang, Kelantan,
and Terengganu through several temporary relief centres and
mosques to help over 221 flood affected families of all races
and religions.
Wherever we operate, we practice an inclusive business with
the view that communities around our business environment
should benefit from our existence through employment
and efforts to enhance livelihoods. MSM Prai’s involvement
in mangrove planting during the year, in collaboration with
Penang’s Department of Environment, is a great example of
MSM working hand-in-hand with the local inshore fishermen
community to protect inland shores and sustain fish
populations.
MSM Group also mindfully contributes to grow opportunities
for future generations through educational support. We run an
annual “Back-to-school” programme for school-going children
of lower income households in the community and also
help create a nurturing environment within schools by
sponsoring water coolers and meals. We also sponsor
children of employees from lower income brackets
with tuition fees at primary, secondary and even full
scholarships at professional degree qualification levels.
Through the Prodigy programme that was launched in
July 2021, we target to provide young graduates with
avenues for continuous development via on-the-job training,
soft skills training, expert coaching, and a chance to be part
of Keluarga MSM. We are also playing an active role through
MSM Foundation via the USM Penang Steering Committee.
Over 5,000kg of Gula Prai
refined sugar was handed
overto be distributedto
flood victims in Klang
Valley, Pahang, Kelantan,
andTerengganuthrough
severaltemporary relief
CENTRES AND mosques
to help over 221 flood
affected families of all
races and religions.
In Conversation WITH OUR
Group CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
64
In your opinion, what are
MSM’s strengths moving
forward? What are MSM’s
weaknesses to guard
against?
MSM is a strong player in the essential food business
where growth can be built upon a defensive segment
and by focusing on midstream processing, marketing and
distribution. A core strength is the established market
ecosystem we have built in the Asia Pacific region and the
recognition we enjoy from inherent industry players such
as global traders and customers. With healthier financials
and stronger governance, we are in a position to activate
mergers and acquisitions to grow a stronger footprint going
forward. This is boosted by possessing more key talents in
the people mix currently as we have, during the year,
augmented the management team with new blood
A
Q
MSM value-added staff benefits
that possess the right skills and experience. With our
fundamentals in place, and the right team at the helm,
I believe we are in a good position to grow in the sugar
universe.
The danger lies in taking a complacent attitude and remaining
within the comfort of sustainable profitability. To grow,
we need to think ahead beyond sugar and venture into new
food businesses that synergise with our current offerings.
Inaction on risk matters is another weakness we have to guard
against. There are many risk issues concerning manufacturing
with regard to hazardous environments, health and safety
of human labour, supply chain inefficiencies and resource
wastages. We need to deliver on better solutions and
accelerate sustainable actions with definite goals in place.
Currently, in tune with future business concerns, MSM is
actively pursuing green initiatives under the pillars of ESG.
Towards this end we are on the lookout for collaborations with
ventures into SMART Manufacturing, Innovation on Energy
Management, Technological and Certification Programmes,
Green Schemes, Green Packaging and Environmental
Technology Research.
Staying prepared, agile and competitive is our way forward.
As such, the leadership of MSM has worked on strategic
blueprints as well as assessments, and charted the path
ahead with the intention to reach our goals through a
promise of “Sweet Sustenance in a Responsible,
Sustainable and Mindful Way”
.
Thank you.
Medical
insurance
upgrades
Back-to-school
assistance for
non-executive
officers based on
income baseline
eligibility
Funds for sports
and healthy lifestyle
activities such as
establishment of MSM
Foldies Cycling Club
for folding bicycle
enthusiasts
Food basket worth
RM150 for staff
under COVID-19
home quarantine
Financial assistance
through zakat
wakalah for staff
welfare
Emergency financial
assistance, cleaning
services and courtesy
leave to staff affected
by floods
With our fundamentals
in place, andthe right
team atthe helm, I believe
we are in good position
to grow inthe sugar
universe.
Syed Feizal Syed Mohammad
Group Chief Executive Officer
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 65
GROUP FINANCIAL
REVIEW
EBITDA
RM282.31
million
Gains from disposal of
MSM Perlis
RM91.81
million
Revenue
RM2.26
billion
Profit after tax
RM125.35
million
MSM has made significant progress on the turnaround of the Company despite
operating in a very challenging environment. The Group registered a healthy profit
after tax of RM125.35 million, a significant improvement from a loss after tax of
RM71.23 million in FY2020. This was achieved amidst significant COVID-19 related
impacts including substantial increase in the price of raw sugar due to supply
and demand as well as changing weather in raw sugar producing countries which
affected the sugarcane crop. Additionally, freight costs increased significantly
as a result of shortages of containers and vessels due to border restrictions and
slow turnaround time at ports. Furthermore, local sugar consumption in Malaysia
was also affected by reduced productivity in the hospitality and food and beverage
sectors, as well as the slowdown in social and economic activities as a result of
movement restriction orders to curb the spread of COVID-19.
As a result of these impacts, the Group’s gross profit margin reduced by 4% from
the prior year. However, the Group recorded a profit before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation (EBITDA) of RM282.31 million, an increase of more than
100% from prior year of RM116.68 million. The Group’s statutory net profit of
RM125.35 million includes the impact of gain from disposal of a subsidiary of
RM91.81 million as well as depreciation charges of RM82.84 million.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
66
For FY2021, the Group
declared a total dividend
of 3.0 sen per share
amounting to RM21.09
million and equivalent to
17% of the FY2021 net
profit of RM125.35 million.
In September 2021, we completed the sale of our
wholly-owned subsidiary MSM Perlis Sdn Bhd for total
proceeds of RM181.11 million. The disposal is part of the
Group’s ongoing exercise to dispose of non-core assets,
generating a gain of RM91.81 million, as mentioned
above. The proceeds were partly use to reduce our gearing
level by making additional repayments to term loan of
RM100.00 million whilst the remaining proceeds was used
to fund capital expenditure in our MSM Johor refinery and
general working capital for the Group. The performance of
MSM Perlis Sdn Bhd was classified as discontinued
operations and a sum of RM85.52 million of the gain on
disposal is recorded as part of this segment’s performance.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 67
GROUP FINANCIAL
REVIEW
Key Financial Performance Indicators
MSM uses several key financial indicators to measure its financial performance. These key
financial indicators are: Revenue, Profit Before Tax (PBT), Return on Capital Employed (ROCE),
Net Debt and Financing to EBITDA, and Cash Balance Position. The Board and Management
regularly review these financial indicators to measure the Group’s performance against
set targets.
Revenue
The Group’s revenue increased by 3.4% to RM2.26 billion
in FY2021 on the back of improved selling prices across all
customer segments. The Wholesale Segment posted a
14% increase in revenue to RM842 million in FY2021
(RM738 million in FY2020) despite recording lower
volume from the previous year. Meanwhile, the Industries
Segment’s revenue decreased by 7% at RM894 million
in FY2021 (RM963 million in FY2020). Around 20% of the
revenue is generated outside Malaysia. In FY2021,
Export Segment’s revenue increased by 8% at RM506
million (RM467 million in FY2020) as a result of increased
Premiums.
	Profit Before Interest, Zakat and Tax (PBIZT) and
ROCE
PBIZT increased 83% from RM68.80 million to RM125.56
million. Due to this increase, the Group’s ROCE increased
from 2.5% to 4.4%. Subject to unforeseen market
conditions, we are working towards achieving a better
performance in the future.
	Profit Before Zakat andTax (PBZT)
The Group’s PBZT from Continuing operations increased
126% to RM81.10 million in FY2021 due to better raw
sugar management. Discontinued operations contributed
RM88.74 million in PBZT, mainly from gain from disposal of
subsidiary, as mentioned above. The Group’s consolidated
PBZT of RM169.84 million is a marked improvement
from a loss position of RM39.24 million in FY2020.
Finance Costs
Finance costs increase from RM36.78 million in FY2020 to
RM47
.05 million in FY2021 is mainly due to a loan modification
cost of RM9.75 million recorded in September 2021 from
additional repayments made to the Group’s term loans of
RM114.26 million. These advanced repayments represented a
change in the present value of the term loan which resulted in
a loan modification cost to be recorded in FY2021. In contrast,
in FY2020, the Group made an additional repayment of
RM40 million in December 2020 and recorded a loan
modification credit of RM11.70 million.
Industries Segment
Export Segment
Wholesale Segment
Revenue Contribution (RM million)
842 894 506
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
68
Outlook
The Group performed well in the financial year ended 31 December 2021, buoyed by good
raw sugar hedging. We expect the level of sugar consumption to improve in FY2022 as travel
restrictions ease domestically. While raw sugar supply shortages will result in raw sugar price
increase, the Group has managed to hedge a significant portion of its Wholesale requirement in
FY2022 at below market price.
Overall, the Group expects the new financial year to continue to be challenging. There is still
significant uncertainty on the full impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and trade tensions
at this juncture. Nevertheless, the Group will remain focused towards higher yield and capacity
utilisation which will result in lower refining and production costs and stronger financial position
which will put the Group in a good position for growth, should prospects and business sentiment
improve.
	Taxation
The Group recorded a higher tax expense of RM43.49 million
in FY2021. This is largely consistent with the higher profits
recorded. Notably however, the effective tax was higher at
26% against the applicable tax rate of 24% mainly due to the
tax effects of non-deductible expenses. This was partly offset
by non-taxable gains on disposal of wholly-owned subsidiary
MSM Perlis Sdn Bhd.
Statement of Financial Position
Total debt decreased from RM907
.10 million as at
31 December 2020 to RM793.06 million as at
31 December 2021 mainly due to repayment of term loan.
Total debt consists of unsecured Bankers’ Acceptance loans
and Islamic term loans. Banker’s Acceptance is used for the
Group’s raw sugar financing and short term in nature, whilst
term loan was drawn mainly for the construction of MSM
Johor refinery and is therefore longer term. Gearing ratio
decreased from 33% as at 31 December 2020 to 26% as at
31 December 2021 due to lower net debt as at year end
coupled with the higher total capital driven by higher
profit retained in the Group. Net Debt to EBITDA ratio also
declined from 6.54 as at 31 December 2020 to 2.14 as at
31 December 2021. This marked improvement is as a result
of additional term loan repayments as well as improved
EBITDA from the prior year, as mentioned above.
Cash Flow
The Group generated a positive operating cash flow
of RM95.15 million in FY2021 albeit a decrease from
RM277 million in FY2020. The higher revenue and net
profit did not translate into an overall increase in working
capital due to the tighter working capital management.
Despite operating in a challenging environment,
the Group ended the year with a healthy cash balance of
RM194.78 million which is relatively in line with prior year’s
balance of RM195.92 million. Additional information can be
found in the Cash Flow Statement on pages 282 to 285.
Dividend
For FY2021, the Group declared a total dividend of 3.0 sen
per share amounting to RM21.09 million which is equivalent
to 17% of the FY2021 net profit of RM125.35 million.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 69
2021Turnaround
through asset
optimisation
2022 Resilient
with sales volume
growth
2023 Pacing growth
with integration
and strength
• 
Capacity optimisation for lower
production cost
• 
Assess MSM Prai rejuvenation life
extension programme
• 
Improve Average Selling Price and
hedging (NY11, freight, energy,
forex)
• 
Consolidate wholesalers & territory
• Enhance market share
• 
Direct contracts with Modern Trade,
Big Industries, major SMIs
• 
Grow export - Vietnam, China,
Singapore, South Korea etc
• 
Grow value added products (VAP)
such as Liquid Sugar, Fine Syrup
and Premix for domestic and export
markets
• 
Debt rationalisation - monetise
non-core assets to pare down
borrowings
• 
Steady production in MSM Johor
towards break-even
• 
MSM Prai rejuvenation life
extension programme Phase 1
• 
Enhance existing and new export
markets
• 
Expand VAP into new markets and
products
• 
Income diversification from
sugar-related products
• 
Step up ESG, reduce GHG
emissions, renewable energy
such as solar and explore biomass
energy-saving project
• Digitalisation and IR4.0
• 
Expand healthy variant products
segment i.e. Go ½, Go Natura
• 
Explore strategic partnership to
strengthen export segment and
further unlock synergistic value
• 
MSM Johor achieves UF and Yield
maturity with downstream integration
• 
MSM Prai rejuvenation life
extension programme Phase 2
• 
Value accretive vertical integration
with downstream
• 
Maximising production capacity for
export
• 
Establish distributorship in target
ASEAN markets
• 
Expand logistic capabilities sea and
land
• 
Explore capacity growth overseas via
offtake with MSM premium sugar
Quality Management
• 
Explore business diversification into
food related business
• 
Explore growth via strategic M&A in
new food business value chain
CORPORATE STRATEGY AND
BUSINESS PLAN REVIEW
3-YEAR STRATEGIC PLAN
MSM is currently guided by a 3-year Strategic Plan through which
“Turnaround Through Asset Optimisation” was initiated in FY2021.
This was supported by the Business Plan 2021 (BP21) and continues to
be supported by the Business Plan 2021-2023 (BP23) going forward.
We also worked on ramping up our ESG journey during the year,
as a step towards meeting FTSE4Good Index standards and ensuring
improved data gathering across the Group.
Sustainability initiatives and performance are detailed in the
Sustainability Report on page 118.
In FY2021 the focus of Turnaround
was primarily on the business front
as we worked to maximise our
capabilities while seeking ways to
expand our market demand and
enhance our liquidity.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
70
Improve MSM Johor’s Production Capability,
Yield and Refining Cost
In Progress 50%
MSM Johor Yield 91% in FY2021
Boiler rectification works at the plant
Improve Sales & Distribution through territory
consolidation and area demarcation
In Progress 50%
Lower warehousing cost
Lower overall sales volume causing higher unit
cost
Increase Growth in Domestic Volume
In Progress 50%
Higher Weighted Average Selling Price
FY2021 vs FY2020
Lower sales volume (mainly affected by
Movement Control Orders)
Strategic Capital Management
In Progress 70%
Paring down of term loan from MSM Perlis
disposal proceeds
Increase USD borrowings for natural hedge in
line with growing USD receivables from export
Export via Strategic Partnership
In Progress 50%
Explore strategic partnership to strengthen
export segment and further unlock synergistic
value
Monetise Non-core Asset
Completed 100%
Disposal of MSM Perlis
STATUS OF KEY STRATEGICTARGETS UNDER MSM BP21
Achieved Delayed Ongoing
Status
S1 S5
S3
S2
Growth in Value Added Segment Sales
In Progress 50%
Higher Average Selling Price
Lower production volume (mainly affected by
MSM Johor temporary shutdown, MCO and
high container cost)
S4
S6
S7
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 71
2023
Sustain Domestic market share
Expand to 50% market share in Singapore
Grow total export
Explore M&A with mid-size/profitable food
processing company
Increase 3rd party trading for new food business
2022
Strengthen Domestic market share
Expand export footprint regionally
Grow export with a better price via strategic
partnership
Explore new food processing business via thorough
feasibility study & strategic engagements
Explore 3rd party trading
CORPORATE STRATEGY AND
BUSINESS PLAN REVIEW
MOVING FORWARD WITH BP23
MSM’s BP23 is aligned to a long-term end-in-mind approach to diversify into mid-stream processing of a new food business;
in line with our vision to be a world class, cost efficient and high performing organisation with diversified portfolio in
food related business.
As for the medium-term horizon, the BP23 captures all of the Group’s key strategic actions that need to be undertaken to
meet its financial and operational targets in the next three years and beyond. The ultimate aim is to be able to realise
MSM’s end-in-mind in the long run.
Key
Targets
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
72
Improving Sales Performance
• 
Focus on growing the VAP segment with higher
selling price and premium
• 
Grow Merchandising Unit, smaller packing to
expand retail presence
Growing a Sustainable Operation with
Better Energy Planning and Green Energy
• 
Implement green energy cost saving and
reducing GHG emissions from electricity
purchased by 10% via solar
• 
Energy auditing, planning and optimisation to
reduce carbon footprint and energy cost
• 
Explore selling by-products i.e mudcake and
calcium carbonate as fertilisers and molasses as
a value added product
Sustainable Manufacturing Performance
• 
Target to optimise production reducing Refining
Cost per MT
• 
Operational improvements supported by
experienced advisors
• 
Improve Process Reliability and Production
Availability
2
3
1 Sales & Distribution Cost Savings
• 
Optimisation of internal assets of MSM Logistics
within Klang Valley, 3rd Party Logistics for outside
regions
• 
Warehouse expansion and optimise demand and
supply planning
• 
Smart Fleet Management to optimise
management, route planning, productivity
Strategic Capital Management
• 
Optimum mix of short-term and long-term
borrowings
• 
Increase USD borrowings for natural hedge in
line with growing USD receivables from export
Export via Strategic Partnership
• 
Explore strategic partnership to strengthen
export segment and further unlock synergistic
value
DigitalTransformation via Industry 4.0
• 
Digital system is to enhance productivity and
accelerate business processes
• 
Improving data visualisation and analytics for
better decision making
• 
Implementing IR4.0 smart systems
manufacturing, sales, logistics etc
4
5
6
7
KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES 2022
Seven KSIs have been identified to strive for resilience by (1) optimising our assets potential, (2) strengthening domestic position
with intensified regional presence and (3) improving capital structures.
Financial Capital
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Natural Capital
Human Capital
Social & Relationship Capital
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 73
Various mitigation strategies are employed to address challenges as identified below:
Description/Impact Mitigation Measures Link to
Capital
Stakeholders
Impacted
Increase in Production Costs
• 
NY11 prices trending higher
with bullish outlook for
FY2022
• 
Natural gas makes up 30%
of refining cost and rising
cost will pose upside risk
• 
Rising freight cost further
squeezes margin gains
• 
De-risking NY11 by higher Industry and Export volume.
To date, MSM has secured most of Wholesale
requirement for FY2022 at 16.5 - 17
.0 US cents per pound
• 
Signed Third Party Access (TPA) agreement with Petronas
for Pay-Per-Use (PPU)
• 
Updating the government on the need to review the
gazetted ceiling price vs higher production cost parity
• 
To mitigate the impact, MSM started to hedge the rising
energy risk via Brent link derivatives
Warehouse Space Constraints
• 
Limited internal storage.
Full warehouses led to
slowdown in production
and increased operating
cost per unit
• 
MSM Johor is currently building an additional
warehouse of 10,000 MT capacity
• 
MSM is also exploring to establish a Northern
Distribution Centre
Imported Refined Sugar
• 
Delay in discharging sugar
resulted in Detention &
Demurrage (D&D) costs
• 
Increase re-packing rate to improve sales of imported sugar
• 
Negotiation with counterparties to reduce D&D cost
Financial Covenants
• 
Compliance with the
covenants imposed by
lenders
• 
Close monitoring for compliance on a quarterly basis
• 
Continuous communication updating the lenders and
negotiation of covenants
KEY CHALLENGES &
MITIGATIONS
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Natural Capital
Human Capital
Social & Relationship Capital
Financial Capital
Impact to Capital
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
74
Description/Impact Mitigation Measures Link to
Capital
Stakeholders
Impacted
MSM Johor Performance
• 
Average UF rate for MSM
Johor was lower due to
temporary shutdown in
FY2021. Running at lower
UF resulted in higher cost
of production
• 
Ramping up of MSM Johor after debottlenecking of
processes
• 
Improve domestic sales in line with export sales
• 
Leverage on value added products
• 
Install a new boiler to enhance production reliability
and availability
Malaysian Domestic Regulations
• 
The domestic Wholesale
refined sugar price has
been capped at RM2.69/kg
for sugar manufacturers
• 
Sugar Tax to further include
premix beverages
• 
As the raw material and cost are bullish, Management
continues to engage KPDNHEP to review current ceiling
price for 1kg and 2kg retail packs
• 
MSM has seen growth in industrial volume despite the
new Sugar Tax introduction in FY2019
The Pandemic
• 
Threats of new variant
“Omicron”
• 
Potential new outbreaks
which could lead to
operational disruptions
• 
Progress and efficacy of vaccinations, SOP compliance
and effective containment of new COVID-19 variant
outbreaks will be key to recovery
Consumers & Customers
Vendors, Suppliers &
Industry Partners
Employees
Media, NGOs &
Communities
Regulatory Agencies &
Statutory Bodies
Shareholders &
Investment Community
Stakeholders Impacted
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 75
RAW SUGAR
SOURCING &
PROCUREMENT
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
76

Secure our raw sugar for the year at
the lowest possible price on average
to help the Group in minimising
production cost
The rising trend of raw sugar price and natural gas has made for a
challenging year for MSM. The NY11* fluctuated between 14.0 to
20.5 US cents per pound amid concerns of supply shortages from
major raw sugar producing countries such as Brazil and Thailand.
The forecast is of a continued uptrend towards 21.0 US cents per
pound at least until the second quarter of 2022. In the effort to
mitigate the risks of increasing costs of MSM’s major raw materials
going forward, the Raw Sugar Procurement Department executed
its strategic hedging programme on both the NY11 raw sugar
as well as Brent Crude Oil.
OVERVIEW
2022 PRIORITIES
Explore various pricing and hedging
mechanisms to better manage
the volatility and reduce price risk
exposures
Note:
* 
The NY11 contract is the world benchmark contract for raw sugar trading and is available on The Intercontinental
Exchange (ICE). The size of each contract is 112,000 pounds. The biggest producer and exporter of sugar in the
world is Brazil (23% of total production and 49% of total exports). A significant amount of sugar is also produced
in India, Europe, China, Thailand and the United States.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 77
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
2020 2019
2021
Procurement of Raw Sugar (tonnes) 968,646 1,092,869 923,895
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
78
MAINTAINING MARKET LEADERSHIP
Within an environment of escalating costs, MSM’s priority
for FY2021 was to secure our raw sugar for the year at the
lowest possible price to help maximise the Group’s profit
margins.
Raw sugar pricing and hedging are guided by the Trading
Committee which is tasked with monitoring the current global
sugar situation and MSM’s hedging positions of our raw
materials namely raw sugar. The Trading Committee meetings
are convened weekly throughout the year towards better,
faster and more informed decision making.
The absence of exports subsidy in India, logistical disruptions
due to the pandemic and continued adverse weather
conditions in other major sugar producing countries are
expected to exacerbate the current global raw sugar deficit
outlook and buoy the NY11 price further.
NY11 Raw Sugar Price STRIVE FOR CONTINUOUS GROWTH
The process of raw sugar procurement is closely governed by
our Group Trading Policy which is approved by the Board and
aligned with relevant standard operating procedures.
The main challenge managing the volatile global raw sugar
prices to procure the lowest possible price of raw sugar for
the Group. To this end, MSM will continue with the current
hedging methods in which all sales under the Industry and
Exports are hedged back-to-back with the current price of raw
sugar.
Various pricing mechanisms were explored during the year
to better manage the volatility and reduce the price risk
exposure moving forward. MSM has also entered
into contracts of Brent Crude Oil options as a hedging
mechanism against the increasing gas prices.
ACHIEVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
MSM’s established Just-In-Time mechanism continues in
being a key contributor to improve the Group’s profit margins
by maintaining minimal raw sugar stockholding, lowering raw
sugar financing cost and reducing freight as well as reducing
external warehouse rental expenses.
Sustainability Step-Up
MSM and Wilmar Sugar International Pte Ltd
(Wilmar) have come to an agreement on
sustainable raw sugar supply through
Wilmar’s updated No Deforestation, No Peat,
No Exploitation (NDPE) policy. This ensures
continuous commitment towards a supply
chain free of deforestation and conflict.
Wilmar will start the supply of sustainable
raw sugar in FY2022.
2021
March
February
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
2022
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 79
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
OPERATIONAL &
REFINING
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
80
Improve MSM
Johor’s UF
, yield and
refining cost
Maintain good
rapport between
management and
union members
Amidst continued pandemic concerns, safety was prioritised at
all operational locations and refinery concerns were addressed
to ensure business continuity. Following the occurrence of
incidents relating to COVID-19 during the year, MSM immediately
implemented heightened SOPs and safety measures. There were
also planned and unexpected plant closures that hampered the
Group’s goal of driving MSM Johor’s yield and Utilisation Factor (UF).
MSM took the opportunity to implement total plant scheduled
maintenance, certifications and plant upgrades for higher plant
reliability and efficiency moving forward.
OVERVIEW
2022 PRIORITIES

Improve product and
service quality to reduce
customer complaints

Initiate a plant
rejuvenation plan for
MSM Prai

Improve engagement with
governing bodies (DOE and DOSH)
and other stakeholders (local
authorities, service providers)
to ensure continued and safe
operations in all aspects
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 81
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
MAINTAINING MARKET LEADERSHIP
It was a challenging year for production at MSM Johor
as the plant was closed for urgent rectification works for
65 days from 31 March 2021 to 4 June 2021. MSM Johor
took the opportunity during this shutdown period to conduct
its total plant shutdown maintenance and extensive production
and reliability improvement programme. The Group also took
the opportunity to revamp the plant’s maintenance team and
ensure critical parts and equipment were made available
during this time. Asset transfers from MSM Perlis to MSM
Johor were completed on schedule, allowing the plant to now
consolidate all available resources as it targets to optimise
production in the coming year.
Over in Penang, MSM Prai plant had a shut down
from 8 to 15 June to prevent internal transmission of the
COVID-19 virus due to detection of cases affecting MSM
Prai employees. The shutdown period was actually shorter
than the initial instruction given by the Malaysian Ministry of
Health as MSM Prai’s SOP records proved that the cases
were from the community and management quickly
responded by implementing stricter SOP and mitigation
plans. These proactive steps were implemented at all
operational locations to avoid business disruption and ensure
supply of sugar to consumers was not interrupted.
Nevertheless, during these two periods, MSM managed
to fulfil demand by increasing production in MSM Prai and
importing refined sugar. Throughout the year, all prevailing
quality certifications were maintained and efforts to migrate
MSM Prai from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 were successfully
completed.
STRIVE FOR CONTINUOUS GROWTH
In striving for continuous growth, MSM Johor’s production
capability in Liquid Sugar and Flavoured Syrups was
completed as part of the momentum to step up creation of
value added products and optimise on the plant’s capacity
and capability. MSM has been producing premix, liquid sugar
and fine syrup products for exports to China, and is scouting
opportunities in other export markets such as Vietnam,
Singapore, Philippines and Indonesia. Liquid sugar production
capacity has increased from 200 MT/day to 400 MT/day
while the flavoured syrup capacity is targeted to grow to
2 MT/day. Several variations of flavoured syrups are being
studied.
For overall improved performance, efforts were undertaken
to identify key optimisation issues for MSM Johor and a
few action plans have been established to help ramp up and
improve the plant’s UF
. A Task Team has been formed for the
areas of Ramp Up, Improve Yield and Robust Data recording;
and a third party has been engaged for technical consultation
on the refinery’s overall process optimisation.
Moving forward, MSM is exploring to utilise an external
distribution centre to overcome operation interruptions due to
warehouse space limitation. Upgrading work on the receiving
facility at Sungai Buloh Warehouse (SBW) is also currently in
progress in order to improve train turnaround time from and to
MSM Prai refinery.
Production Volume (tonnes) 895,222 1,010,215 1,073,888
Raw Melted (tonnes) 933,274 1,061,158 1,101,708
Capacity Utilisation 44% 47% 48%
2020 2019
2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
82
ACHIEVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Given the pandemic, a key priority for business continuity
was to ensure the workplace remained safe for all workers.
During the year, MSM experienced four COVID-19-related
deaths among MSM Prai staff, all of which were traced
to community cases. To further fortify workplace hygiene,
the Group has escalated SOPs to include appointment of
medical doctors and healthcare nurses for daily screening,
daily RTK Antigen Swab Test for all suspected cases with
symptoms and to close contacts, engagement of an external
party to conduct sanitisation and disinfection to all the
common areas in the factory three times per week without
failure, and daily sanitisation by all departments.
There was a 39% reduction of accident cases in FY2021,
but this was marred by an unfortunate fatality of a contract
worker in MSM Prai in March 2021. Management ensured
immediate safeguards and heightened awareness was
established site-wide following the incident. Detailed
investigations were conducted and immediate corrective and
prevention action plans have been implemented.
Taking a note from the boiler rectification works needed at
MSM Johor in FY2021, moving forward, MSM will conduct
periodic inspections of the boilers and implement a revised
steam generation system with purchase of new equipment
to improve reliability, operability and maintenance. Operational
focus will also continue to be directed towards optimising
refining cost as per budget, standardising quality practice
across MSM production units, and reducing customer
complaints.
Continuous efforts are made to reduce refining cost by
increasing production volume and utilisation factor while
increasing efficiency of inputs utilisation such as steam
to melt ratio, electricity, water, labour and yield. For MSM
Johor, a ramp up plan is in place to achieve better UF
.
These goals will be supported by the implementation of
a Total Preventive Maintenance (TPM) Programme and
technical consultations by Subject Matter Experts in the
sugar refining industry.
More information on our COVID-19 measures are detailed
on page 172 of our Sustainability Report
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 83
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL &
DOWNSTREAM
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
84
Maintain market leadership by
increasing strategic collaboration
with market players
Improve stability of sugar supply
in the country to cater for market
growth via stockpiling initiative
Facing continued challenges in the domestic market, MSM’s Group
Commercial Department is focused on achieving growth through
engagement, penetration and collaboration. These included
improving services to our clientele, seeking strategic partnerships
with major wholesalers and industrial players, as well as to
leverage on their strength and logistic assets. Simultaneously,
the Department plans to further increase MSM Johor’s liquid sugar,
fine syrup and premix capacity to cater for growing demand
in exports.
OVERVIEW
2022 PRIORITIES
Increase our presence in Retail as
well as Hotel, Restaurant and Catering
(Horeca) sector
Grow regionally as one of the largest
sugar refineries in the region
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 85
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
MAINTAINING MARKET LEADERSHIP
Though competition continued to abound in the market
throughout FY2021, MSM made strides to regain
domestic market share by reaching out to customers and
strengthening engagements to serve them better. This has
led to MSM still maintaining market leadership in the
domestic sugar industry market.
According to the Asia Brand Footprint 2020 report by Kantar,
a leading data insights company, Gula Prai ranked third in the
Top 10 most chosen FMCG brands. The brand also recorded a
70.9% market penetration with the second highest consumer
choice at 7
.4.
Recognising the need to re-establish brand awareness among
Malaysians, MSM launched the “Janji...Gula Peket Hijau”
campaign as part of marketing strategy for FY2021.
The campaign included advertisements through various media
channels such as TV, radio and in-store coordination with
retailers to place our marketing collaterals in their respective
outlets. The campaign celebrates diversity in Malaysia and
the strong ties shared through Gula Prai’s iconic packaging
that spans generations. We plan to continue with this
marketing strategy in FY2022, and more campaigns will be
launched to further increase brand visibility.
A new service strategy for the Modern Trade segment was
also developed in which Trade retailers were engaged with
directly. This direct engagement allows MSM to quickly
address any issues that arise on the retailing front and
have direct access to all the hypermarkets for better oversight
in ensuring product availability and visibility.
Moving forward as a market leader, MSM aims to
aggressively increase our presence in the Hotel,
Restaurant and Catering (HoReCa) sector of the food service
industry which comprises establishments that prepare food
and beverages. At the same time, efforts will be focused
on aggressively penetrating the Modern Trade segment and
increasing market share in East Malaysia.
Despite the challenges of the pandemic that presented
many roadblocks in FY2021, the Group’s domestic wholesale
segment and refined sugar export recorded growth
over 11% and 5% respectively for FY2021. Furthermore,
the export premium increased in FY2021.
STRIVING FOR CONTINUOUS GROWTH
The Group is focusing on developing our product sales
domestically instead of overly relying on exports to China.
This reduces single-country export risk and allows for more
domestic premium gains. MSM plans to increase supply
to domestic buyers as demand increases for value added
products (VAP).
While maintaining resilience in the domestic market,
opportunities in Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam,
Singapore, Philippines and Indonesia are being scouted.
This has proven challenging as it means facing changes in
socio-political policies such as Vietnam’s recent restriction on
the importation of sugar. However, the long-term benefits still
spur our steadfast commitment to this strategy and MSM
has been engaging with several customers from Indonesia and
Philippines to get them onboard as potential VAP customers.
Sales Volume (tonnes) 941,749 1,024,603 947
,290
Revenue (RM) 2.3 billion 2.2 billion 2.0 billion
Debt Collection 43 days 38 days 50 days
2020 2019
2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
86
There are opportunities to leverage on this front. With signs
of global food inflation emerging, MSM’s prices remain
comparably low in the global market when it comes to sugar,
and thus prices of our products will be comparatively lower
and more attractive than our competitors.
The necessary expansion works to increase MSM Johor’s
production capacity for previously identified VAP have been
initiated. The physical expansion of the premix line has
been completed and all that is pending is the last stage of
acquiring the necessary certifications and qualifications before
production can commence. The plant is also ready to produce
fine syrup to meet customer demand. Expansion of liquid
sugar production is ongoing, with an estimated completion of
second boiler works by April 2022.
ACHIEVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
MSM has secured major Industrial contracts as part of our
strategy to maintain optimum operational efficiency within the
Group’s capacity.
Several emerging lifestyle trends such as decrease in demand
for foods and beverages that contain high carbohydrates
and sugar, and increased demand for lactose-free dairy and
sugar substitute products are evident in the Department’s
analysis of upcoming trends and threats. This has spurred
the Group’s venture into VAP and exploration of opportunities
in new Stock Keeping Units (SKUs).
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 87
SUPPLY CHAIN
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
88
Enable and sustain supply chain
processes through IR4.0
In the Group’s drive towards enhanced productivity, cost efficiencies
and timely delivery, further efforts were made to streamline and
improve MSM’s Supply Chain processes in FY2021. These included
the establishment of on-site supply chain planning teams; reassigning
supply for East Malaysia volume to MSM Johor; streamlining
logistics from source points for efficient cost to serve; and product
rationalisation to enhance supply efficiency.
OVERVIEW
2022 PRIORITIES
Optimise sales and distribution cost
Build up talent capability through
human resource development and
deployment of best practices
Establish a demand driven and
customer focused supply chain
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 89
GROUP BUSINESS
REVIEW
MAINTAINING MARKET LEADERSHIP
Focused on fortifying service reliability, the core objective for the Group Supply Chain Department in FY2021 was to
enhance the Demand and Supply process to flatten inventory peaks and dips within the Group. On-site supply chain planning
teams were established at MSM refineries and these worked closely with the commercial team to regularly monitor and
review inventory build-up towards optimising stock levels at all times.
In addition, weekly collaboration with sales, finance and operation led to the customer service function being restructured by
customer segment and more streamlined Order to Deliver (OTD) processes in sales and operation.
Sales & Distribution (RM) 28 million 26 million 25 million
OnTime in Full 83% 94% 93%
Inventory Record Accuracy 99.32% 100% 100%
Stock Cover 9 days 20 days 19 days
2020 2019
2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
90
By transferring East Malaysia’s volume supply to MSM Johor
in October 2021, the Group has increased MSM Johor’s
domestic volume contribution and eased complexity at MSM
Prai, allowing MSM Prai to focus on domestic volume for
Peninsular Malaysia while maximising export. Another
benefit of the transfer is that the relocation of East Malaysia’s
supply point from Penang Port to Pasir Gudang Port leads
to a significant freight cost reduction of an estimated
RM1.2 million per annum.
Efforts to streamline logistics from source points for efficient
cost to serve have paid off. Freight cost has also reduced due
to direct delivery to a few main industrial customers from
the refinery, which has removed the need for multiple
handling at the central distribution centre. A more efficient
cost to serve is targetted through a new tactical strategy
for centralised delivery that the MSM Logistics operation
fleet will introduce in the fourth quarter of 2021.
STRIVING FOR CONTINUOUS GROWTH
Towards ensuring continous growth, MSM is working on
cost optimisation initiatives and this includes group volume
consolidation negotiation, reduction of multiple handling,
increasing direct to customer delivery (reducing touch
points) and process control enhancement. In line with plans
to develop new products to meet emerging lifestyle trends,
MSM is committed to ensure supply chain readiness for value
added products from sourcing to delivery execution.
The execution of demarcation strategy to increase MSM
Johor’s refining capacity by transferring East Malaysia
distribution volume through Pasir Gudang Port is an important
step towards growing the Group’s capabilities. It frees up
MSM Prai to focus on growing export and central business
volume while ensuring MSM Johor starts sweating the
refinery’s underutilised assets.
On the service front, the kick-off of Service Level Agreement
review with key suppliers for supply and service sustainability
marks the Department’s commitment towards meaningful
engagements that can drive win-win benefits for our
stakeholders.
Other than process control improvements in Supply Chain
operation, achievements in cost efficiencies realised during
the year include centralisation of tender processes to
leverage on Group volume and bring cost benefits through
better negotiation. Higher volumes have created opportunities
for MSM in value added services from service providers
which are similar to services received by other big industries
in Malaysia.
ACHIEVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Moving forward into FY2022, MSM will focus on introducing a
customised customer distribution network model for northern,
central and southern regions; harnessing digitalisation
and IR4.0 technologies for the Group’s planning module,
warehouse management system and fleet management
system; and exploring commercialisation of the logistics
function and the centralising of inland transport planning.
Towards improved operational excellence, a benchmarking
exercise on best practices with industry leaders will be
conducted, and MSM intends to strengthen partnerships
with reputed logistics peers within the FGV group, such as
FGV Transport Services.
Internally, talent upscaling will be conducted via Supply
Chain Operational Excellence workshop and a drive
by MSM Logistics to attain certification on ISO 9001.
Further engagements with customers will also be
sought, such as through the planned launch of a Good
Warehousing Practices (GWP) programme with key
wholesale customers.
Sustainability Step-Up
Supply chain sustainability initiatives and
monitoring schedule in FY2022 for CO
2
gas
emission and biofuel.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 91
HOW WE
OPERATE
94 Our Business Model
96 Materiality Assessment Process
102 Stakeholders Engagement
108 Investor Relations with a Difference
115 Financial Calendar
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
94
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 95
MATERIALITY
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
MSM’S 2021 MATERIALITY MATRIX
MSM’s materiality matrix addresses key topics that have been identified as important to our business and stakeholders.
We considered and prioritised significant business, operational, environmental, social and governance topics. These topics
were positioned on the materiality matrix based on two axis - importance to MSM Group and its stakeholders.
Identify
We assessed if our concerns disclosed in last year’s Annual Integrated Report are still relevant and if there are any new
concerns to be raised based on:
In the course of the assessment, the Group has determined that the majority of material topics presented in FY2020 still remain
relevant.Two of the material matters listed in the previous report were further consolidated and refined as Environmental Impact
and Managing Regulators topics were already addressed in the other topics. This was to avoid repetition and to streamline
disclosures.
Verify
Most material impacts on MSM were identified on a Materiality Matrix which was reviewed by our Board of Directors (BOD)
and Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO). They have validated these issues as carrying notable impacts and of high concern
to our stakeholders.
Changing global
and local trends
Media analysis
The directions of
the sugar industry
Regulatory
changes
Our strategies and
internal policies
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
96
Prioritise
We engaged with internal and external stakeholders to prioritise our most material issues based on our business
strategies as well as social, environmental and corporate commitments in FY2020. As part of the FY2020 exercise, surveys were
sent to a cross-section of our customers, employees, suppliers, media analysts, investors and NGOs to provide us with a better
understanding of their concerns and perspectives.
During FY2021, there were no significant changes to our business model or operating boundaries. Thus, the material concerns
of FY2020 continue to be indicative of our journey to strengthen MSM’s performance.
Out of the 10 material issues, eight were prioritised as core sustainability issues. However all material concerns are
important considerations to us and disclosure of our progress in addressing these concerns are made in our Strategic Review.
1
10
8
2
9
3
4
7
5
6
Service & Product Quality
Operational Performance
Occupational Safety & Health
Performance
Governance
Macroeconomic Conditions
Financial Management
Resource Management
Talent Management
Economic Impact
Community Empowerment
Environmental Social Governance
3
1
2
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Significance to Business
Significance to Stakeholders
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 97
MATERIALITY
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
MATERIAL ISSUES
Impacts
• 
Customer service standards
• Food safety and quality certifications
• Reliable supply of products
• 
Protection of customer privacy and
data
Impacts
• 
Optimised asset utilisation
• 
Unplanned factory shutdown time
and production downtime
• Scalable and sustainable operations
• 
Consistent supply and product quality
• Improved manufacturing capability
• 
Efficient production and maintenance
practices
• 
Business continuity to support
stakeholders value delivery
Impacts
• 
Provision of fair and decent work
environment and wage policies
• 
Adhering to safety and health
industry standards to reduce
fatalities, injuries, accidents and
illnesses of our employees, their
families, contractors and customers
Our Response
• 
Event and engagement sessions
with customers
• Customer complaint response form
• 
Ensure sufficient sugar supply for
domestic market
• Improve customer service levels
Link to Strategy Link to Strategy Link to Strategy
Our Response
• 
Further efforts were taken to
stabilise the MSM Johor refinery to
achieve better results
• 
Completion of expansion plans for
the value added facilities in Johor
• 
Strategic production planning
between MSM Johor and MSM Prai
to reduce refining costs
• 
Continue to improve the overall yield
in all our refineries
• 
Balancing production capacity
between MSM Prai and MSM Johor
• 
Discontinuing non-strategic
operations
• 
Increase production yield and
utilisation by producing value added
sugar products
Our Response
• 
Focused safety programmes towards
Zero Harm to People, Property and
Assets
• 
Establishment of HSE Committee and
Safety and Health Committees
• 
Continuous monitoring, measurement
and reporting cycle of Health, Safety
and Environment (HSE) performance
to create and ecosystem of health
and safety awareness
• 
Continuous engagement with
Department of Occupational Safety
and Health (DOSH)
• Audits for ISO 45001 certification
Service & Product
Quality
Operational
Performance
Occupational Safety and
Health Performance
S2 S1
S5
S3 S2
S6
S4 S3
S7
S4
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives
on Social: Occupational Health &
Safety Performance
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
98
Link to Strategy
Impacts
• 
Compliance with laws and regulations
• 
Management of procurement policies and practices
• 
Management of Anti-Corruption policies and procedures
• 
Management of governance policies and issues
• 
Management of anti-competitive behaviour and
monopoly practices
• Responsible sourcing practices
Impacts
• 
Exposure towards fluctuations in commodity and raw sugar
price
• Trading risks involved in futures market
• Adverse forex movements
• 
Raw sugar price influenced by global climate, economy and
political factors
• Legal and regulatory changes
• Trade wars and protectionist policies
• Health pandemic & climate change
Our Response
• 
Active engagement, dialogue and briefings with MSM
employees
• 
Enhance business framework to adapt to regulatory
requirements
• Adopt and update relevant policies
• 
Improve governance, compliance and transparency
framework
• 
Put in place adequate procedures such as Anti-Bribery
Policy Statement and Whistleblowing Policy at MSM
website in compliance with 15.29 (1), and (2) of Main
Market Listing Requirements (Listing Requirements)
guided by the Guidelines on Adequate Procedures,
section 17A (5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission (MACC) Act 2009 (Amendment Act 2018)
• 
100% Signing of Integrity Pledge
Our Response
• 
Constantly monitor the world sugar price at NY11,
back-to-back hedging for industry and export sales and
hedging lower than the budgeted for wholesale market
• 
Implementation of Just-In-Time mechanism to reduce
working capital requirements, as well as having
arrangements with suppliers to ensure sustainable supply of
raw sugar is secured
• 
Improve margins by increasing Average Selling Price to
industry
• 
Continuous engagement with the government and relevant
ministries such as Ministry of Domestic Trade & Consumer
Affairs (KPDNHEP), and Ministry of International Trade
& Industry (MITI) to collaborate on APs, compliance,
smuggling, safety and environmental matters
• 
Close monitoring of industry and regulatory developments
worldwide
• 
In normal operation activities and in reaction to the
COVID-19 pandemic, our Business Continuity Management
plan sets strategies to actively increase corporate resilience.
The objective is clear: to prevent suspension of operations
or services
Governance Macroeconomic conditions
Increase Growth in
Domestic Volume
Growth in Value Added
Segment Sales
Strategic Capital
Management
Export via Strategic Partnership Monetise Non-core Asset
S3 S4
S5 S6 S7
Link to Strategy
S5
S2 S6
S3 S4
Improve MSM Johor’s
Production Capability,
Yield and Refining Cost
Improve Sales & Distribution
through Territory Consolidation
and Area Demarcation
S1 S2
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on Social:
Economic Impact and Governance
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 99
Our Response
• 
Improve financial performance
• 
Improve governance, compliance and transparency
framework
• 
Pursue value enhancing opportunities
• 
Minimise losses and improve overall MSM Group
performance
• 
New investments and expansions were further
rationalised and regulated to prioritise profitability and
focus on business continuity and sustainability
• 
Further explore downstream into sugar related business
unlocking value added income stream
• 
Monetise all non-strategic and non-productive assets
Link to Strategy
Impacts
• 
Responsible and efficient use of water and energy
• 
Recycling and reuse of materials, water and energy
• 
Reduction of direct and indirect GHG emissions
• Management of waste and effluents
• Impact on surroundings at all operational sites
Impacts
• 
Sustained financial, dividend and share performance
• 
Responsible investment in new business strategy,
mergers and acquisition
• 
Strengthening risk and governance policies
• 
Optimising our funding strategy and gearing ratio
• 
Prudent capital expenditure (CAPEX) allocation
• Maintain healthy cash balance
• 
Business profitability to support stakeholders value
delivery
Our Response
• 
Continuous monitoring of key environmental aspects such
as energy optimisation, water usage, waste management
and inventory of greenhouse gases
• 
Continuing to explore initiatives to lower refining cost at
each refinery via installation of biomass boilers and solar
photovoltaic systems
• 
Continuous engagement with Department of Environment
(DOE)
• 
Waste stream management is outsourced to a supplier
licensed by DOE to collect, transport, process and dispose
waste in accordance with local regulations and standards
• 
Various environmental initiatives and collaborations such
as Mangrove Tree Planting and participation in E-Recycling
campaign
Resource Management
Financial Management
MATERIALITY
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
MATERIAL ISSUES
S1
S5
S2
S6
S3
S7
S4
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on Governance
Link to Strategy
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on Environment,
Social and Governance
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
100
Impacts
• 
Sustainable talent pool for growth
and expansion
• 
Becoming an attractive workplace
of choice
Impacts
• 
Infrastructure investments and
services supported
• Indirect economic impacts
• 
Adhering to environmental, safety
and health industry standards for
good business continuity
Impacts
• 
Local community engagement and
development programmes
• 
Impact to surrounding communities
and mitigating actions
Our Response
• 
Continued investment in training
and development
• 
Nurturing culture and shared values
through internal engagements via
townhall, intranet and newsletter
• 
Management dialogues
with employees and union
representatives
•
Create a more conducive working
environment through employee
engagement and feedback
• 
Offer better packages based on
performance and productivity of
refinery
• 
Provision of unique employee value
proposition and benefits
• 
Establishment of Prodigy
Programme initiative
Our Response
• 
Employment opportunities
• 
Socioeconomic operational impact
and initiatives
• 
Employ a diverse workforce
from different backgrounds and
professional expertise in operations
and business support
• 
Transparent and open contract/
tender negotiations
• 
In ensuring readiness, we conduct
BCM testing involving and/or taking
into account the stakeholders and
the surrounding community
Our Response
• 
Volunteerism to Social and
Environmental causes
• 
Continued commitment to CSR
programmes
• 
Tithe and alms giving through Zakat
and Wakalah
• 
Responsive and viable contribution
to community interest and needs
• 
Support for key community
developments and activities
• Sponsorship and donations
Talent Development Economic Impact
Community
Empowerment
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on
Social: Economic Impact
Link to Strategy
Link to Strategy
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on
Social: Community Empowerment
• 
MSM’s Sustainability Initiatives on
Social: Talent Management
Link to Strategy
S3 S4
Increase Growth in
Domestic Volume
Growth in Value Added
Segment Sales
Strategic Capital
Management
Export via Strategic Partnership Monetise Non-core Asset
S3 S4
S5 S6 S7
Improve MSM Johor’s
Production Capability,
Yield and Refining Cost
Improve Sales & Distribution
through Territory Consolidation
and Area Demarcation
S1 S2
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 101
STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT
Maintaining good relationships and rapport with our stakeholders has been the foundation for our turnaround success.
Through the challenging year, alternative channels were harnessed to ensure continued engagement to gather feedback,
as and when personal interactions were not viable. By listening to our stakeholders, we are able to gather invaluable
inputs to shape our risk management and decision-making processes for business operations.
The following table highlights our various engagement platforms for diverse stakeholders and inks issues raised to the relevant
material matters of the year. Our Consumers & Customers head the listing as they are placed as our top priority.
Service & Product Quality Operational Performance Resource Management
M1 M2 M7
Consumers & Customers
We are reliant on customers to sustain our revenue-generation and growth
• 
Online communications (e-mails, corporate website,
social media)
• 
Sales representative
• 
Branding campaign
Relevant Material Matters
Impact to Capitals
• 
Ensure sufficient sugar supply for the domestic market
• Development of new products
• 
Enhance touchpoints, physical or digital, to maximise
customers’ satisfaction
Response toThese Expectations
• Improve processes to deliver operational excellence
• Good SOPs during pandemic
• Key customer site visit by GCEO
• 
Branding campaign
• 
Customer complaint response form
• 
Event and engagement sessions
Engagement Platform
• 
Convenient, continuous and safe access to products &
services during the pandemic
• 
Excellent customer service
• 
Long-term security of supply
Stakeholders Expectations
• 
Consistent supply and quality of products
• 
Competitive pricing
• 
Improve manufacturing capability
Manufactured Capital
Financial Capital Social & Relationship Capital
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
102
Employees
Employees are our vital assets and the key to drive performance forward
• MSM’s internal portal and emails
• Social and recreational activities
• 
A safe, healthy and conducive workplace supported by
flexible work practices
• 
Career development opportunities
• 
Competitive benefits, remuneration and welfare packages
Engagement Platform
Stakeholders Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
Impact to Capitals
• 
Enhance delegation of tasks and address the needs to
improve employees’ performance
• Salary benchmarking exercise against market practice
• Continued investment through training and development
• Focused health and safety programmes
• 
Renewal and signing of the 17th Collective Bargaining
Agreement with trade union in MSM Prai
Response toThese Expectations
• 
Balanced work-life environment
• 
An environment that embraces diversity and enables
employees to deliver quality work output
• 
Employment security
• Internal engagements via townhall, intranet and newsletters
• 
Management dialogues with employees and union
representatives
• Recreational and sports activities
• Support for youth employment via Prodigy Programme
• Financial aid and support for eligible employees in need
• 
Regular employee meetings, engagement events and
programmes
• Onboarding programmes
Operational Performance
M2
Community Empowerment
M10
Talent Management
M8
Occupational Safety & Health Performance
M3 Financial Management
M6
Intellectual Capital Human Capital
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 103
STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT
Shareholders & Investment Community
Provide constant communications and provide a platform to receive a balanced view of MSM Group’s performance
and the challenges faced among investors and the public
• 
Annual reports
• 
Sustainability statements
• 
Quarterly financial announcements
• 
Annual meetings
• 
Sustainable financial returns with prudent cost management
• 
Responsible investments
• 
Integration of ESG elements in business operations
• 
Ethical and responsible business conduct
• 
Strong and experienced management
Stakeholders Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
• 
Implementation of MSM BP23 for sustainable growth and a
further long-term plan (See page 70)
• 
Re-prioritisation of strategies to adapt to the vulnerable
market landscape due to the pandemic
• 
Activation of business continuity plan to ensure uninterrupted
services
• 
Transparency in corporate reporting and disclosures through
multiple platforms
• 
Appointment of directors and senior management with vast
experience and knowledge
Response toThese Expectations
• 
Strategic engagements with FGV to leverage on their
expertise, knowledge, services
• 
Transparent reporting and disclosures
• 
Initiatives to mitigate effects of the pandemic
• 
Future growth for the business
• 
Enhanced commitment to ESG practices Group-wide
• 
Audit and certifications
• 
Improve financial performance
• 
Improve governance, compliance and transparency
framework
• Quarterly briefings and annual report
• Pursue value enhancing opportunities
• 
Enhancing media presence through promotional, diversity
and unity campaigns
• 
Annual roadshows (non-deal road shows/investor
conferences/corporate days)
• 
Quarterly analyst briefings
• 
Online communications (e-mail, corporate website,
social media)
Financial Management
M6
Macroeconomic Conditions
M5
Governance
M4
Resource Management
M7 Economic Impact
M9
Engagement Platform
Impact to Capitals
Intellectual Capital
Financial Capital
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
104
Engagement Platform
Stakeholders Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
Impact to Capitals
Response toThese Expectations
Governance
M4
Resource Management
M7 Economic Impact
M9
Macroeconomic Conditions
M5
Regulatory Agencies & Statutory Bodies
The Government’s regulatory framework allows us to operate within a supportive environment and infrastructure
as well other means of support to sustain our growth
• 
Regular updates, disclosures and reporting to regulators
• 
Actively participate in regulatory forums, briefings, meetings, conferences and consultation papers
• 
Compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements
• 
Compliance with pricing structure
• 
Good corporate governance
• 
Transparent reporting and disclosures
• 
Active participation and contribution to industry and
regulatory working group
• 
Continuous updates on our systems, internal controls and
processes to meet current compliance and risk requirements
• 
Effective compliance delivery, risk management and
governance to meet regulatory requirements
• 
Timely and transparent disclosures and reporting to
regulatory agencies and statutory bodies
• 
Engagement on industry issues such as Approved Permit
(AP) issuance and sugar smuggling
• 
Sufficient sugar supply for the domestic market
• Compliance matters
• Environmental emissions and discharges
• Labour practices
• Healthy competition among business
• Occupational safety & health
• 
Active engagement, dialogue and briefing for continuous
improvements in best practices
• 
Enhance business framework to adapt to regulatory
requirements
• 
Promote UN SDGs through our initiatives
• 
Improve governance, compliance and transparency
framework
Manufactured Capital
Social & Relationship Capital
Financial Capital
Human Capital
Intellectual Capital Natural Capital
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 105
STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT
Vendors, Suppliers & Industry Partners
Provide the materials to produce the products and services aimed for MSM’s sustainable growth
• 
Online communications (e-mail, corporate website,
social media)
• 
Vendor site visits
• 
Convenient access to procurement systems
• 
Fair and equal evaluation of vendors and their proposals
• 
Communicate fair conditions that satisfy both suppliers and
the MSM’s needs
Stakeholders Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
Impact to Capitals
• 
Transparent and open contract/tender negotiations
• Support local vendors
• 
Conduct vendor site visits to ensure responsible practices
are maintained
Response toThese Expectations
• 
Communicate new policies, guidelines or strategies to
ensure optimal performance
• 
Transparent reporting and disclosures to ensure smooth
collaboration with potential partners
• 
Conduct engagement sessions to ensure vendors’
understanding on the procedures, processes, guidelines,
expectations of deliverables and quality
• Integrity assessments
• 
Vendor evaluation form
• 
E-Procurement system
• 
Formal and informal engagements
Governance
M4
Operational Performance
M2
Economic Impact
M9
Resource Management
M7
Service & Product Quality
M1 Occupational Safety & Health Performance
M3
Engagement Platform
Financial Capital
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
106
Service & Product Quality Operational Performance Resource Management
M1 M2 M7
Media, NGOs & Communities
Building and nurturing existing relationships with the communities where we operate allows us to contribute to
transformation, development and various corporate responsibility programmes
• 
Community engagement activities
• 
Online communications (e-mails, corporate website, social media)
• 
Responsive and viable contribution to community interest
and needs
• Support for key community developments and activities
Stakeholders Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
Impact to Capitals
• Volunteerism in community activities
• 
Collaboration with Penang DOE and fishermen community
in October for Mangrove Tree Planting
Response toThese Expectations
• Sponsorship and donations
• Employment opportunities
• Socio-economic operational impact and Initiatives
• Continued commitment to CSR programmes
• 
Extension of financial relief assistance through Zakat and
alms giving
Engagement Platform
Natural Capital Social & Relationship Capital
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 107
Investor Relations Calendar 2021
June 2021 February 2021
March 2021
May 2021
INVESTOR RELATIONS
WITH A DIFFERENCE
MSM’s Turnaround Plan prioritises a commitment
to revitalise investor relations and boost investor
understanding in the sugar business. MSM’s newly
restructured Corporate Strategy & Investor Relations
team has been tasked to spearhead the Investor Relations
function of the Group and act as a focal point with the
investment community to communicate the Company’s
financial and operational performance, strategies and
outlook, as well as addressing any inquiry and request
from shareholders.
DRIVING Investor RELATIONSTHROUGH
Purposeful Shareholder Engagement
The team occasionally organised meetings with major
institutional investors, individual shareholder groups and
financial analysts to share insights of MSM’s business
strategies. The team also proactively answers questions
posed by investors during the respective quarter.
Our GCEO, Senior Management and Investor Relations
team have taken part in these meetings. Meeting the
leaders of MSM directly provides better insights and
meaningful understanding to investors on the direction
of the Group.
Active participation in roadshows and events for the
investing community were also undertaken to ensure
continuous communication and updates are provided to
investors.
3 June
MSM 10th AGM Pre-Engagement with
Permodalan Nasional Berhad (PNB)
Virtual
PNB
MSM 10th AGM Pre-Engagement
17 June
MSM 10th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Virtual
Shareholders of MSM
Resolutions
25 February
MSM 4Q 2020 Analyst Briefing
Virtual
Analyst/Fund Managers
Financial Results Briefing
17 March
Engagement with LembagaTabung Haji (LTH)
Virtual
LTH Senior Management
Introduction of MSM/Updates on MSM
Business operation/Moving forward plans
25 May
MSM 1Q 2021 Analyst Briefing
Virtual
Analyst/Fund Managers
Financial Results Briefing
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
108
2 September
Pre-Engagement with PNB
Virtual
PNB
Pre-Engagement and Questions received
from PNB
6 September
Engagement with United Overseas Bank (UOB)
Virtual
UOB Kay Hian
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
June 2021
July 2021
Parties Purpose
Location
28 June
Discussion with PNB
Virtual
PNB
AGM Post-Engagement
19 July
Engagement with Federal Land Development
Authority (FELDA)
Virtual
FELDA
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
26 July
Private Roadshow with Employee Provident
Fund (EPF)
Virtual
EPF
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
27 July
MSM Corporate Day with AmInvestment -
Hitting the Sweet Spot
Virtual
Shareholders & Investment Community
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
August 2021
6 August
Interview with Stockbit - Hitting the Sweet Spot
(Youtube Live)
Virtual
Live session Stockbit
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
25 August
MSM 2Q 2021 Analyst Briefing
Virtual
Analyst/Fund Managers
Financial Results Briefing
September 2021
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 109
7 October
Engagement with Kenanga Investment Bank
Virtual
Kenanga Investment Bank
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
Investor Relations Calendar 2021
INVESTOR RELATIONS
WITH A DIFFERENCE
September 2021
27 October
Engagement with FELDA
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad Head Office,
Kuala Lumpur
FELDA
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
29 October
Non Deal Roadshow Engagement with
LembagaTabung AngkatanTentera (LTAT)
Virtual
LTAT
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
October 2021
October 2021
9 September
Pre-Engagement with Minority Shareholder
Watch Group (MSWG)
Virtual
MSWG
Pre-Engagement and Highlights Questions
received from MSWG
15 September
Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM)
Virtual
Shareholders of MSM
Proposed Disposal of Equity Interest in
MSM Perlis to FGV Integrated Farming
Holdings Sdn Bhd
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
110
Parties Purpose
Location
8 November
Engagement with EVLI GROUP
Virtual
EVLI Group
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
10 November
Engagement with Pheim Asset Management
Sdn Bhd (Pheim)
Virtual
Pheim
Introduction of MSM/Updates on MSM
Business operation/Moving forward plans
10 November
CLSA Malaysia Boleh Corporate Day:
Food for Thought
Virtual
Shareholders & Investment Community
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
25 November
MSM 3Q 2021 Analyst Briefing
Virtual
Analyst/Fund Managers
Financial Results Briefing
November 2021
10 December
Best of Asia Discovery Conference 2021
Virtual
Shareholders & Investment Community
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
22 December
Engagement with SIRIM Berhad (SIRIM)
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad Head Office,
Kuala Lumpur
SIRIM
Introduction of MSM/Updates on
MSM Business operation/Moving forward plans
December 2021
January 2022
21 January
Engagement with EPF
Virtual
EPF
Introduction of MSM/Updates on MSM
Business operation/Moving forward plans
28 January
Engagement with Urusharta Jamaah Sdn Bhd
(UJSB)
Virtual
UJSB
Introduction of MSM/Updates on MSM
Business operation/Moving forward plans
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 111
INVESTOR RELATIONS
WITH A DIFFERENCE
BOOSTING INVESTOR CONFIDENCETHROUGH
ACTION & CHANGE
The following are the various topics highlighted and presented
to our investors:
ESG and Sustainability
From feedback received from stakeholders and investors,
MSM recognises the growing importance of sustainability
and ESG in investors’ portfolio.
The Group has responded by identifying gaps in the current
ESG and sustainability framework and initiatives towards
better ESG disclosures aligned to globally recognised
standards such as UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as the
Bursa’s FTSE4Good Index standards.
MSM is also looking into renewable energy such as solar and
biomass in an effort to reduce carbon emission, as well as
improve waste management.
MSM greatly values its employees in the communities it
serves by giving back to society through channels such
as the Prodigy programme aimed to help alleviate young
graduate unemployment, Skilling & Employment Opportunity
programmes and community outreach during the COVID-19
pandemic.
All announcements, published information and presentation of
the company is available at our Investor Relations section of
our website at
www.msmsugar.com
Investor Relations Calendar 2021
Parties Purpose
Location
MSM places a high priority on proper governance and
integrity at all levels of its operations, with Anti-Bribery and
Corrupt Practices procedures in place, establishing enhanced
transparency and disclosure measures.
Average Selling Price
Refined sugar is a controlled-price item with a government-
fixed ceiling price for the domestic market at RM2.85/kg.
This is among the lowest sugar retail ceiling price in the world.
MSM keeps the government informed on the global sugar
market movement. The increase of sugar and forex increases
production costs significantly, revisions on ceiling price set by
the government will be brought up and discussed.
In early 2022, the gazetted wholesale ceiling price is
RM2.69/kg. MSM has increased its Average Selling Price (ASP)
towards limit to realise a better margin.
Non-Core Asset Disposal
Disposal of MSM Perlis to FGV Integrated Farming Holdings
Sdn Bhd (FGVIF) was completed on 29 September 2021 and
deconsolidated from MSM Group on 30 September 2021.
Proceeds of the disposal amounted to RM181.11 million,
of which a portion is to be used to further pare down
borrowings.
Price of Raw Sugar (NY11)
NY11 increased in FY2021 in response to lower raw sugar
supply globally which was mainly due to suboptimal weather
conditions.
NY11 strongly correlated to Crude Oil prices which surged in
July 2021. Higher crude oil price incentivises sugar mills to
produce more ethanol than sugar.
MSM manages its raw sugar hedging by purchasing managed
lots and by avoiding long-term contracts.
22 February
MSM 4Q 2021 Analyst Briefing
Virtual
Analyst/Fund Managers
Financial Results Briefing
February 2021
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
112
Operational Performance
MSM provides operational parameters such as yield, utilisation
rate and production volumes for FY2021. These parameters
have been reviewed and shared with analysts during the
quarterly result announcements.
Production volumes in FY2021 were affected following
disruptions due to planned shutdown for repairs and
maintenance works in MSM Prai, and boiler issues in MSM
Johor.
Financial Performance
MSM disclosed its financial quarterly results with detailed
explanations on the performance of the Group and its
subsidiaries.
In addition, the Group has recognised a positive result in
FY2021 despite the COVID-19 pandemic dragged by the
prolonged Movement Control Order (MCO).
Navigating through the social distancing requirements,
MSM had leveraged on virtual meetings and applications
for 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Extraordinary
General Meeting (EGM). Nonetheless, MSM frequently
conducted virtual engagements with analysts, shareholders
and interested investors.
Strategic Partnership and Expansion Plans
MSM has to consider the strategic fit of any potential
partners with the Group’s aspirations such as to consider the
strategic Johor refinery turnaround and improvement plans,
including growing its inherent export footprint for long-term
sustainability whereby MSM is already serving Vietnam,
China, South Korea, Singapore and other countries in the
region.
Should there be interest from any potential party pertaining
to MSM Johor, it shall be evaluated with prerequisite of an
offtake guarantee based on specific destination market(s)
towards reinforcing business sustainability.
ANALYST COVERAGE
As the largest sugar producer in Malaysia listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia, MSM garnered a fair
share of coverage and attention from the investment
community. A total of four analysts and research houses
had actively covered MSM in FY2021.
SHARE PRICE MOVEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 113
INVESTOR RELATIONS
WITH A DIFFERENCE
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
Share Price (RM)
Volume
4 Jan 21
4 Feb 21
4 Mar 21
4 Apr 21
4 May 21
4 Jun 21
4 Jul 21
4 Aug 21
4 Sep 21
4 Oct 21
4 Nov 21
4 Dec 21
SHARE PRICE MOVEMENT
25 February 2021
4Q 2020 Record operating
profit after 8 consecutive
losses
1 June 2021
MSM Johor Boiler 1
back in operations
25 November 2021
3Q 2021 Gross Profit dropped
44% QoQ with core operating
PBT RM32m
25 May 2021
1Q 2021 Financial
result announcement
25 August 2021
2Q 2021 Financial
result announcement
29 October 2021
Budget 2022
Sugar Tax and
Cukai Makmur
24 November 2021
WHO designated
the new COVID-19
Omicron variant as a
variant of concern
4 Jan 21
4 Feb 21
4 Mar 21
4 Apr 21
4 May 21
4 Jun 21
4 Jul 21
4 Aug 21
4 Sep 21
4 Oct 21
4 Nov 21
4 Dec 21
160,000,000.00
140,000,000.00
120,000,000.00
100,000,000.00
80,000,000.00
60,000,000.00
40,000,000.00
20,000,000.00
-
Shareholder Information as at 21 March 2022:
FGV Holdings Berhad remained as our largest shareholder with 51.00%, with a direct shareholding of 10.97% and an indirect
shareholding of 40.03% via FGV Sugar Sdn Bhd. The other significant shareholders are Koperasi Permodalan Felda Malaysia
Berhad holding 15.28% and Amanah Trustees Berhad with 7
.49%. The balance 26.23% are held by other local corporations,
Malaysian retail and foreign shareholders.
To see further shareholder information, refer to Analysis of Shareholdings as at 21 March 2022 on page 372
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
114
FINANCIAL
CALENDAR
2020
No dividend was declared and paid for the FY2020
2021
Announcement on declaration of a final single-tier dividend of 3.0 sen per share
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021: 10 March 2022
Date of Entitlement : 29 March 2022
Date of Payment : 7 April 2022
ANNOUNCEMENT
ON UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED
RESULTS
DIVIDENDS
ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING
2020
4th quarter ended 31 December 2020 : 25 February 2021
1st quarter ended 31 March 2021 : 25 May 2021
2nd quarter ended 30 June 2021		 : 25 August 2021
3rd quarter ended 30 September 2021 : 25 November 2021
2021
4th quarter ended 31 December 2021 : 22 February 2022
10th Annual General Meeting
Notice of meeting			 : 27 April 2021
Issuance of Annual Report		 : 27 April 2021
Meeting date				 : 17 June 2021
11th Annual General Meeting
Notice of meeting			 : 27 April 2022
Issuance of Annual Report		 : 27 April 2022
Meeting date				 : 8 June 2022
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 115
