SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
118 Board Statement on Sustainability
122 Our Sustainability Commitment
124 Our Sustainability Governance
128 Our Way Forward in Our Sustainability Journey
130 Environment Initiatives
142 Social Initiatives
175 Governance Initiatives
Board
Statement on
Sustainability
The MSM Group is advancing a significant step-up of the
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) framework in
business and operations to reset our sustainability journey.
The step-up action signifies our firm commitment in infusing
sustainability in our operations and strategies which coincides
with our strategy to broaden our global exposure. Additionally,
the COVID-19 pandemic has made us realise the importance
of steadfastly withstanding unforeseen challenges. While
we actively engage in sponsoring and supporting various
charity programmes, food banks, and individuals impacted
by COVID-19, staying safe also encompasses the safety of
business resilience and sustainability in the present business
environment.
As part of this step-up plan, as of this year’s reporting,
we are committed to work towards meeting FTSE4Good
Bursa Malaysia Index standards; align our disclosures
with internationally-recognised Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) standards; as well as focus on promoting
relevant United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) into our long-term strategies.
A key achievement this year was the establishment of a
dedicated sustainability working group within the Corporate
Strategy and Investor Relations department that will
henceforth take the lead in expanding our sustainability
efforts. Working with an external consultant, a culture of
Review, Reflect and Respond (3R) has also been initiated
within the Group to inculcate sustainability in our strategies
and in our operations. At the same time, we are remapping
the material matters to be more relevant to current business
operations and future strategy. We target to improve our
sustainability reporting and disclosures this year and emerge
with a more fortified sustainability framework and targets
from FY2022 onwards.
We are escalating the Group’s commitment to providing
safe, condusive and healthy workplaces. To date,
MSM Prai and Sungai Buloh Warehouse have been issued
the ISO 45001: Occupational Health & Safety System
certificate, and MSM Johor is in the process of being certified.
Awareness for green initiatives is also being ramped up,
especially at MSM Prai, with the signing of a certificate
of collaboration (COC) with Penang’s Department of
Environment (DOE) enabling green initiatives in preserving
and conserving the environment. Participation in a household
e-waste recycling competition and Mangrove Tree Planting
programme are some initiatives towards the Company’s
Sweet Sustenance in a Responsible,
Sustainable and Mindful Way
We are remapping the
material matters to be more
relevant to current business
operations and future
strategy.We target to improve
our sustainability reporting
and disclosures this year and
emerge with a more fortified
sustainability framework and
targets from FY2022
onwards.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
118
MSM Group’s
turnaround plan
focuses on a high
performance
culture anchored
on integrity as a
key to sustaining
our performance.
long-term commitment in preserving the environment,
restoring the natural ecosystem as well as supporting the
surrounding community.
Besides a stronger sustainability framework, MSM Group’s
turnaround plan focuses on a high performance culture
anchored on integrity as a key to sustaining our performance.
It is everyone’s role and duty not to deprive potential benefits
to the Group and staff through misconduct on business
ethics. We are proud to announce 100% signing of the
Integrity Pledge following a successful Group-wide
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) campaign initiated
by MSM’s Corporate Governance and Risk Management
(CGRM) Department.
During the year, we conducted three Disciplinary
Inquiries (DI) as a result of consequence management of
misconducts reported. These steps will ensure greater
corporate and financial outcomes, and such positive outcomes
will eventually translate into key benefits to shareholders and
employees alike.
Stay safe always!
Board of Directors
MSM Holdings Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 119
MSM GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY AND ENVIRONMENTAL,
SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE (ESG)
STEP-UP INITIATIVES AND
DISCLOSURES
The COVID-19 pandemic has made us realise the importance of having a sustainable business
operations to remain resilient in facing the unforeseen challenges. Further, the world today
is also experiencing Environmental crises, mainly on climate change where we must
act upon as a responsible corporate citizen. Concurrently, the Social and Governance
aspects of our business shall continue to be strengthened as we review our ESG elements
holistically. It is worth to note that ESG has become an important criteria to the regulators
and investing community in assessing a company’s sustainability position.
BOARD Statement on
Sustainability
REFLECT
REVIEW RESPOND
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
120 MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
In FY2021, MSM teams were
tasked to Review, Reflect and
Respond (3R) in creating a culture
that inculcates sustainability not
only in the Group’s strategies but
also in its operations to achieve
respectable ESG standards for
the Group in the near future.
To enhance stakeholders’
engagement to review
the Sustainability
materiality matters
To measure our
materiality matters
and improve
disclosures
To implement the
Group’s ESG initiatives
to achieve the short and
long-term goals in the
Sustainability Journey
121
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
As the leading sugar refiner and brand ambassador for Malaysia, we aspire
to achieve excellence in sustainability by integrating sustainable practices
into every business activity in line with our promise of “Sweet Sustenance
in a Responsible, Sustainable and Mindful Way”
. We continue to make
positive strides to strengthen our approach in managing sustainability topics
that are material to our business, demonstrate our constant commitment
to incorporate sustainable practices into all segments of our business,
and show leadership with the sustainability challenges we face. Working
together in collaboration with partners, customers, regulators and other
stakeholders, we focus on maximising our long-term positive impact.
We are working towards revising and updating these policies to align with
our current practices and business strategies and to take into account
constructive input on the concerns and expectations from our stakeholders.
The Group Sustainability Policy establishes MSM’s commitment to work
towards a future that creates a positive impact on our environmental, social
and governance responsibilities for our stakeholders.This Policy is applicable
to all the Directors and the employees of the MSM Group.
We report on our sustainability practices and performance annually,
with our last report published as part of MSM’s 2020 Annual Report.
This year’s statement summarises the key highlights of our efforts
towards achieving sustainable development through our ESG initiatives
for the reporting period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021.
In the development of our approach towards improving our sustainability
reporting, we have improved on the way we document the measurements
for our material matters for the disclosures of this year’s Sustainability
Report. As the Group makes further traction within our sustainability
journey, we will consider the adoption of an external assurance for our
disclosures in the near future.
We strive for
best practices
in the way we
conduct our
business improve
livelihoods
across our value
chain, commit
to become
the employer
and partner of
choice providing
opportunities for
advancement and
development,
play a leading
role in community
development,
and demonstrate
environmental
responsibility and
leadership.
Our Sustainability
Commitment
MSM’s Sustainability Policy can be viewed on our website at
www.msmsugar.com
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
122
100%
Signing of
Integrity Pledge
ACCA
Scholarships
worth RM209,721
awarded
Launch
of Prodigy
Programme
Certificate of Collaboration with
Penang DOE enabling green initiatives
in preserving and conserving the
environment
“Janji...Gula
Peket Hijau”
campaign to promote unity
Mangrove Tree
Planting
programme
Signing of
Collaboration
Agreement
with Wilmar
Achievement
of IS0 45001:2018
for MSM Prai
and Sg Buloh
Warehouse
Reduction in
Scope 3 GHG
Emissions by
77%
3rd
Place
Winner in E-Waste
Competition
Reduction of
Scope 1 GHG
Emissions by
14%
3R
Recycling
Programme
2021
SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 123
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
GOVERNANCE
MSM’s sustainability strategy is overseen by the Board of Directors. With commitment from the top and a robust governance
structure, all matters related to sustainability are effectively managed at various levels across the Group setting a culture of
integrity, accountability and transparency. Reporting structures of the sustainability governing body are clearly defined to ensure
clear demarcation of roles and responsibilities, as described below:
Group Chief Operating Officer
The Group Chief Operating Officer (GCOO) provides
leadership and direction for sustainability initiatives and is
the conduit between the Board (that includes the BAGRC)
and MSM’s operational units on sustainability and corporate
governance related matters.
Corporate Strategy (CS) and Investor Relations
Department (IR)
The CS & IR Department, through its dedicated ESG-focused
member, reports directly to the GCOO, and advises all
Heads of Operations on matters pertaining to the
Group’s sustainability strategy. The CS & IR department
also works closely with MSM’s Health Safety, Environment,
Security & Quality (HSES&Q), the department that
spearheads the implementation of sustainability-led strategies
and programmes within the Group.
Board of Directors
MSM’s Board Charter sets out the Board’s responsibility
to review, approve and include ESG considerations for
the sustainability of the business in the strategic plans.
The Board of Directors formulates the sustainability policy
and ensures that it takes account of material matters that
impact business goals and ascertains MSM’s sustainability
practices. In addition, the Board is responsible for approving
MSM’s sustainability disclosures.
Board of
Directors
Board Audit,
Governance and
Risk Committee
Group Chief
Operating
Officer
Corporate
Strategy and
Investor Relations
Department
Subsidiaries -
Head of
Operations
Department
Heads at
Subsidiaries
Board Audit, Governance and Risk Committee
(BAGRC)
The BAGRC receives periodic updates on ESG issues and
risks including the plans, actions to be taken on the progress
of key ESG initiatives. The BAGRC is the board committee
with oversight for the formulation of the sustainability policy
and strategies. It reviews the Sustainability Report and any
other related information that has a major financial and/or
reputational impact on the Group.
MSM’s Board Charter can be viewed on our website at
www.msmsugar.com
Our Sustainability Governing Body
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
124
1 Consumers &
Customers
4
5
6
2
3
Risk Management
MSM’s structured risk management framework established
under the Risk Management Policy enables MSM to facilitate
risk assessment process and mitigation plans to achieve
a strategic vision and aspirations to be amongst the top
sugar-business companies globally. The framework is
designed to identify, assess and prioritise risks and
opportunities, including ESG risks that impact our business.
To ensure effective oversight of risks at enterprise-wide
level, risk management is embedded into our key processes
and activities. The Enterprise Risk Management Framework
is designed in accordance with the ISO 31000:2018 Risk
Management-Guidelines.
The CGRM Department is the custodian of Group’s risk profile.
The Board, assisted by the BGRC, has the overall responsibility
to review the effectiveness and adequacy of MSM’s risk
management and internal controls.
With a structured risk framework, potential risks are tracked in
the risk registers of each operating company and are reviewed
on a quarterly basis by CGRM jointly with the respective
risk owners from the operations to assess the analysis and
mitigation measures, and where applicable, ensure action
plans are effective and adequately documented. CGRM
publishes its quarterly risk report to the Management, Board
Committees and Board on the key risks horizon covering the
top 10 and other key risks.
Further details on the Key Challenges & Mitigations are
covered on page 74, and further details on MSM’s Risk
Management are disclosed in the SORMIC section on
page 251
Stakeholder Engagement
MSM Group strives to engage actively with the following
six categories of stakeholders to manage their expectations
by providing adequate information in appropriate forms for
effective communication. We place Consumers & Customers
first as our top priority stakeholder group.
Details on our engagements with our stakeholders are
covered on page 102
Details on our Materiality Assessment are covered on
pages 96 to 101
Vendors, Suppliers &
Industry Partners
Employees
Shareholders
& Investment
Community
Regulatory Agencies &
Statutory Bodies
Media, NGOs and
Communities
During the year, the Group emphasised on-ground and face to
face engagement with key customers and industry players to
fortify relationships and create better value delivery synergies.
However, due to the pandemic and movement restrictions,
virtual engagement channels were employed to reach out to
the community and authorities such as the DOE.
Materiality Assessment
Our approach to ESG is currently aligned to our business
strategy and this approach is informed by our understanding
of the issues that are most material to us as a business and to
the communities we touch, and in turn by the priorities we are
setting for ourselves along our value chain.
In FY2021, we continued to internally assess and review
our material matters for their relevance and changes to the
risks and opportunities impacting our business. We have
streamlined the material matters, as reported on page 126
and in our previous report in 2020. This year we highlight
those that remain relevant and important to us while we
progress to refine our priorities in the coming year. We have
also enhanced our disclosures on our material topics,
and where applicable, aligned these with the relevant GRI
standards and identified the UN SDGs most relevant to
our sustainability effort in FY2021.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 125
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
126
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 127
OUR WAY FORWARD IN
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
Our commitment to our sustainability journey will be progressively accelerated in a meaningful and transparent manner.
As part of our transformative plans to step-up our sustainability practices and with the support of our independent consultant,
we are headed towards delivering on the promise of “Sweet Sustenance in a Responsible, Sustainable and Mindful Way”
as our new sustainability framework.
Our concerted efforts aim to enhance our sustainability framework with clearer medium to long-terms goals and measurable
progress on our “high” priority issues. We target to remap our materiality topics with better defined ESG priorities that align
with the changing business landscape and current market conditions.
As a first step, we are disclosing our sustainability performance for FY2021 with additional disclosures on our policies
and practices, heightened analysis on our impacts, understanding present gaps. We aim to reflect our sustainability roadmap
and our “ambitious” goals in our next report.
At the global front, the manufacturing sector is evolving towards a more efficient, faster and flexible future through greater
technology adoption as part of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
MSM aims to catalyse growth through key technology pillars that are identified in the country’s Industry4WRD:
National Policy on Industry 4.0.
By infusing higher value added process of manufacturing through the application of advanced digitisation,
advanced manufacturing technologies and efficient resource utilisation, manufacturing issues such as hazardous environments,
health and safety of human labour, efficiency in managing supply chains, and reduction in wastages are addressed. It also paves
the way to enhanced productivity, job creation, innovation capacity, high-skilled talent pool and ultimately economic prosperity
and societal well-being.
Thus, moving forward, MSM intends to collaborate and venture into possible schemes, research and development,
and studies on the following:
SMART
Manufacturing
Environmental
Technology
Research
Technological
and Certification
Programmes
Industry 4.0
Innovation
on Energy
Management
Green
Schemes/Green
Packaging
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
128
• Resource Management
• Economic Impact
• Operational Performance
• Service & Product Quality
• Talent Management
• 
Occupational Health & Safety
Performance
• Governance
The next sections of this report provide the overview and
analysis on how we currently approach each of the topics on
the respective topics ESG topics in FY2021.
Esg MaterialTopics
Social
Governance
Environment
	Climate Action & Net Zero Ambition
As part of MSM's commitment to operate responsibly through our positive actions, MSM is accelerating its ambition to
strengthen its strategy and commitment on reducing its carbon footprint in line with Malaysia's aim of achieving carbon
neutrality by 2050 (as announced under the 12th Malaysia Plan in September 2021). We are exploring alternative energy
reduction initiatives to improve our energy efficiencies and will review our own GHG inventory comprehensively,
set baselines and enhance our goals towards the net zero ambition. With the recent announcement by the Environmental
and Water Minister in December 2021, Malaysia is making way for a voluntary carbon market and a domestic emissions
trading scheme, MSM will also consider opportunities on carbon trading within the FGV Group.
	Promote Consumer Benefits and Good Health Practices
As part of MSM’s aim to enhance its business priorities from FY2022 onwards, MSM aims to focus on promoting healthier
lifestyle options and be steadfast on its promise to deliver mindful practices. On the consumer front, expanding on the existing
“Go 1/2” and “Go Natura” products for its health conscious customers are on the horizon. MSM is also exploring initiatives via
various platforms to encourage and educate its consumers on the benefits and use of “Sugar in Mindful Ways”
.
Refer to page 139 for details on our Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and on page 138 on our Near Future
Energy Initiatives
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 129
ENVIRONMENT
Initiatives
The way forward on the world
stage is taking positive climate
action towards a net zero
future. We have to accelerate
sustainable actions, and capitalise
on early wins.
In alignment to the Group’s Sustainability Policy and Environmental Policy, MSM pledges
to comply with all applicable environmental legislation, regulation and requirements that
pertain to our receiving, manufacturing and distribution practices. The Group prioritises
the effective use of resources, energy and fuel, and also waste reduction.
This commitment goes beyond the Group’s direct impact and includes effort to
ensure good practices across our supply chain. We also encourage our value chain
partners to embrace sustainainable practices sustainable environmental practices at
their work sites and educate our staff on environmentally friendly practices. The Board
has oversight over the environmental sustainability matters including the management
of climate change risks.
The Group Sustainability Policy is available at the corporate website at www.msmsugar.com/sites/default/files/
group_sustainability_policy.pdf
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
130
2021 Environment Step-Ups
Converting mudcake
by-product,
into fertiliser and
cement
Reviewing
opportunities in
recycling general
waste
Participation
with Government
Bodies in E-waste
Competition
MangroveTree
Planting in Prai
Conversion of
molasses to
value added
products
Water use
efficiency and
care
The Group is strongly committed to:
• 
Meeting the requirement of all applicable legislations as well as other best practices and
sustainability commitments that we subscribe to
• 
Engaging our stakeholders in promoting sustainability practices
• Assisting our external suppliers in meeting the requirements of our policies
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 131
ENVIRONMENTAL
As a business highly dependent on natural resources,
we are cognisant of the need to protect the natural
environment and contribute to climate action. We actively
study technological solutions to optimise energy usage,
and emissions such as solar and biomass. We have
invested in state of the art technology and equipment to
ensure improvements in the efficiency of energy usage,
prevention of pollution as well as to be in compliance
with relevant requirements and legislations.
Both MSM refineries use boilers which generate steam to
be used in the process. MSM Johor’s plant was built based
on an Environmental Impact Assessment Report with
consultation from the Department of Environment (DOE).
We continue to monitor key environmental aspects such as
energy optimisation, water usage, waste management and
inventory of greenhouse gases to measure our progress
in minimising our environmental impact. We have also
initiated collaborative arrangements such as the signing of
the Certificate of Collaboration with the Penang DOE to
work on green initiatives in preserving and conserving the
environment.
As MSM expands on a global platform, we are escalating
our commitment to minimise the environmental impacts
from pollution, waste, resource use, from our business
operations.
Total environmental fines and penalties incurred by
MSM across the Group during the year was RM73,000
for 43 summonses issued by the DOE. There were no
summonses the previous year.
We have commenced our journey towards establishing
the ISO 14001: Environmental Management System with
awareness building and audits to begin early 2022 and
targeted for completion in the same year. We are in the
midst of updating our Environmental Policy as we are
moving forward with ISO 14001 certification in FY2022.
SDG 12
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
AND PRODUCTION
SDG 7
AFFORDABLE AND
CLEAN ENERGY
SDG 6
CLEAN WATER AND
SANITATION
SDG 13
CLIMATE ACTION
Note:
As of FY2021, the Group is no longer tracking data for MSM Perlis.
MSM is working on improving all tables for FY2022, to ensure all data is tracked and measured accurately and consistently throughout the Group.
ENVIRONMENT
INITIATIVES
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
132
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
	Waste Management
MSM’s approach in dealing with waste reduction and the
process flow of inputs, activities and outputs that impact
waste production are guided by the Group Sustainability Policy,
the Environmental Policy and respective waste management
controlproceduresestablishedundereachtheMSMoperations
in order to comply with the relevant regulations such as the
Environmental Quality (Scheduled Waste) Regulations 2005
(Scheduled Waste Regulations 2005).
We record the hazardous waste generated in our operations
as Scheduled Waste and all other non-hazardous waste,
including by-products, are categorised as Non-Scheduled
Waste. This categorisation determines how waste is stored,
handled and disposed, in the value chain from production
to packaging to distribution stage. Some of the types of
Scheduled Waste generated and tracked from MSM’s
own activities at each of its operations include waste
containing materials such as mercury, metal with
copper, zinc and chromium as well as containers, bags or
equipment contaminated with chemicals, pesticides.
Scheduled waste is strictly tracked and monitored at
our operations, by competent certified persons,
with pertinent details recorded in the internal database
as well as at the DOE website, as per the Scheduled
Waste Regulations 2005. Scheduled Waste is outsourced to
a supplier licensed by the DOE to collect, transport, process
and dispose waste in accordance with local regulations and
standards. Non-Scheduled Waste includes materials such
as plastic, paper boxes, office and general waste, spillage
and refining by-products such as mudcake and molasses.
To minimise disposal and to divert Non-Scheduled Waste
from being sent to landfills, MSM is looking at more efficient
recycling and reselling opportunities with appropriate
third party partners.
ActionsTaken to Mitigate Waste Reduction:
Mudcake: Turning Waste to Fertiliser
Replicating the success achieved in the sale of molasses
by-product as animal feed, MSM is making inroads
turning mudcake waste into useful fertiliser. Mudcake
is a compressed sugar refining waste by-product that is
produced in both MSM refineries. The DOE previously
categorised mudcakes as Scheduled Waste which was
required to be handled, stored properly and to be removed
from site by a licensed DOE contractor. In FY2021, the DOE
had agreed and approved that mudcakes generated as
by-products by the refineries are no longer termed as
Scheduled Waste.
Research was conducted on MSM’s mudcake waste and it
was discovered that it reduces acidity in soil making it viable for
use as fertiliser. This led to a trial programme between MSM
Johor and FGV Fertiliser in October 2021 to turn mudcake into
fertilisers. Based on the trial, the parties are in discussions on
whether all of the mudcakes generated by MSM Johor and
MSM Prai can be taken up by FGV Fertiliser and if successful,
a joint venture on this initiative is in the pipeline.
Potential collaborations with third party to supply mudcakes
for the cement industry are also being explored at this stage.
The possibilities are exciting not just for MSM but for the
refining industry and environmental authorities at large.
MSM is also exploring opportunities to work with higher
education institutions to conduct research on other potential
benefits and use of mudcakes.
The total waste generated and tracked by the
MSM Group as Scheduled Waste (Hazardous)
and Non-Scheduled Waste (Non-Hazardous
Waste) in FY2021 is 20,109.57 metric tonnes.
Out of which, a total of 146.83 metric tonnes
of hazardous waste were generated from
our operations.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 133
ENVIRONMENT
INITIATIVES
Reducing Waste in the Community
As part of MSM’s 2021’s sustainability journey and a
step-up of our ESG framework, MSM has taken a more active
role in participating in initiatives and action to reduce pollution,
waste and resource use. In November 2021, MSM Prai took
part in a Household E-Waste Collection Hero Competition
organised by the Penang DOE and in collaboration with Majlis
Bandaraya Seberang Perai and Majlis Bandaraya Pulau Pinang.
MSM Prai took it as an opportunity to raise awareness for
staff on ESG topics while fortifying ties with the DOE.
In conjunction with the National Environmental Day themed
Environment: Our Responsibility, MSM Prai bagged third
place in the Industry category with approximately 500kg of
electric and electronic waste (e-waste) collected within five
days from 7 November until 12 November 2021 by more than
400 MSM Prai employees via the strategic promotion of
environmental awareness programme. MSM Prai took its own
initiative to participate in the competition and the team effort
and commitment shown by its employees demonstrate that
everyone in MSM is playing an active role in contributing to
MSM’s ESG agenda.
To further drive the ESG initiatives for a better and greener
environment, MSM launched the 3R: Reduce, Reuse and
Recycle Programme in early January 2022. More measures
are in the pipeline to promote the 3Rs across the Group and
reduce environmental impacts of our products throughout
their lifecycles. Further details of the initiatives and activities
planned in FY2022 will be disclosed in our next report.
The diagrams provide an overview of the aspects of waste
management we have monitored and tracked over the last
three years. We recognise that there are still gaps on how
waste generation data has been collected and tracked in the
respective operations and we are stepping up how we track
and measure our progress on waste generation data from
FY2022 onwards as we continue to improve our data analysis
and tracking methods for more consistency moving forward.
As previously reported, we continued to track the hazardous
waste collected by our licensed contractor for recovery
and observed a 28% decrease in FY2021 from FY2020.
The remaining hazardous waste from our operations were
disposed and handled through other methods such as
recycling, chemical treatment, incineration, or sent to landfills.
More measures are in the pipeline to
promote the 3Rs across the Group and
reduce environmental impacts of our
products throughout their lifecycles.
Further details of the initiatives and
activities planned in FY2022 will be
disclosed in our next report.
15.80 15.49 11.19
2020
2021
2019
Hazardous (Scheduled) Waste collected by
licensed contractor for recovery (tonnes)
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
134
MSM recorded a 43% increase in the amount of
non-hazardous waste such as mudcakes sent to the landfills
in FY2021. This is largely due to MSM Johor’s tracking
of its mudcakes since 2021. Mudcakes were initially
classified as Scheduled Waste and hence, the data for
non-hazardous waste sent to landfills was not consistently
tracked across the Group previously. MSM is currently in
discussion with FGV on disposal of mudcakes to be used
as fertiliser and this number is expected to reduce going
forward. See story on page 133.
Seek ways to reduce, recycle or recover
generated waste
Initiated study with FGV Fertiliser for future
collaboration on mudcake conversion to fertiliser
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
	Water Usage & Effluents
Vast water quantities are used in the sugar refining process.
Sustained water management measures have been adopted
to ensure the efficiency of water usage within our operations.
The amount of water used and reused in our daily operations
are constantly measured and monitored, as is the water
effluent discharge from our processes. The data is shared
with the MSM headquarters on a quarterly basis for them to
monitor progress. MSM’s commitment to reduce water use
and improve wastewater treatment capabilities at sites or
throughout the Group are reflected in the Group Sustainability
Policy and Environmental Policy.
MSM refineries purchase water from the respective local
water companies and measures its water consumption
from the invoices received on a monthly basis. In the event
of water shortages, there are water tanks with capacity of
3,200 m3 in MSM Johor and 1,344 m3 in MSM Prai.
The amount of water consumed daily is related to the daily
raw sugar melting activity. For MSM Johor, average water
consumption was around 1,400 m3 per day in FY2021.
Meanwhile, for MSM Prai daily water consumption ranged
from about 2,800 m3 to 4,500 m3 per day. This means that the
respective water tanks can serve as back up supply for MSM
Johor operations for two days, and around 7 to 8 hours for
MSM Prai.
MSM Johor possesses its own waste water treatment plant
(WWTP) with enough capacity to handle all wastewater
discharged. Wastewater is released to the sea after treatment
at the refinery’s WWTP
. MSM Johor is currently upgrading its
WWTP to optimise the process.
Recycled waste generally cover materials such as scrap
metal, paper, plastic and empty drums. Higher recycled waste
at MSM Prai in year FY2020 was due to the plastic pallet
write-off.
Note:
Data based mostly on disposal of mudcakes.
2020
2021
2019
226.39
19,772.6 13,905.55 19,898.63
606.99 210.94
Note:
Only tracked by msm prai to date.
2020
2021
2019
Non-Hazardous (Non-Scheduled)
Recycled Waste (tonnes)
Non-Hazardous (Non-Scheduled)
Waste Sent to Landfills (tonnes)
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 135
ENVIRONMENT
INITIATIVES
MSM Prai does not have an effective WWTP currently but
will be constructing a new system targeted to commence
in FY2022. As required under the Environmental Quality Act,
an independent third party does the monitoring and water
sampling on a monthly basis and reports to DOE as well as
the local authorities to ensure compliance with all parameters.
Water quality checks are conducted on the discharge,
the surface and boundary water.
During the year, MSM Prai was fined by DOE when higher
than the permissible level of effluent was detected in water
discharged. MSM Prai constantly engages with the Penang
DOE to regularly update them on the progress on MSM Prai’s
WWTP plans as well as to clarify and reassure DOE on its
commitment to improve processes. MSM Prai also maintains
a close relationship with the nearby fishermen community
and this can also be seen through the collaboration on the
Mangrove Tree Planting.
MSM Johor also encountered issues with its WWTP during
the year and has been in regular communication with the Johor
DOE on the problems they faced. The respective refineries
have taken steps to mitigate these issues by ensuring their
competent persons are well trained and prepared to handle
these issues, third party consultants are engaged as well
as repair works and proper maintenance are carried out to
mitigate the risks of managing treated water and continuous
engagement with the DOE to demonstrate the operations
commitment to resolve issues quickly.
Read more about MSM Prai’s Mangrove Tree Planting
activity on page 141
MSM individual operations track their water consumption
separately. The total water consumption for MSM Group
reduced from 2,577
,381 m3 in FY2020 to 1,778,819 m3
in FY2021. We are working on improving the tables moving
forward to ensure all the data are tracked and measured
accurately throughout the operations.
Although a slight increase was seen in MSM Prai in FY2021,
the overall performance reduced by 16% in FY2021 from
FY2020, as data from MSM Perlis has been excluded for the
year after its disposal.
Note:
Only msm prai recycles and reuses water back into the process, and
tracks this data to date. FY2019 and FY2020 numbers included data
from MSM Perlis.
The amount of water used and reused
in our daily operations are constantly
measured and monitored, as is the water
effluent discharge from our processes.
The data is shared with the MSM
headquarters on a quarterly basis for
them to monitor progress.The total water
consumption for MSM Group reduced from
2,577,381 m3 in FY2020 to 1,778,819 m3
in FY2021.
2020
2021
2019
2020
2021
2019
Total Water Consumption in Our Operations (m3/year)
Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3/year & %)
418,813
12.50%
417
,469
16.20%
350,928
19.73%
3,341,358 2,577
,381 1,778,819
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
136
There were issues with MSM Johor’s WWTP in FY2021 which
resulted in high effluent discharge in the first half of the year.
The problem was addressed and figures for MSM Johor’s
effluent discharge normalised in the second half of the year.
We will aim to track our effluent data closely from FY2022
onwards to enable us to monitor and measure our effluent
discharge more accurately.
Energy Optimisation
Energy is a core resource for MSM’s operations. MSM Johor,
MSM Prai (and where applicable in SBW) rely on diesel, natural
gas, purchased electricity and steam as energy sources.
In addition, MSM Johor and MSM Prai also generate their
own electricity via the steam turbine generator as part of
MSM’s commitment under its Group Sustainability and
Environmental Policies to reduce impact of fossil-fuel based
energy and improve energy efficiency.
The back-pressure turbines installed in our refineries generate
approximately half of our energy requirements, in particular
in MSM Johor, by channeling exhaust steam back to the
heating process. We also recycle our process condensate
for boiler steam generation and employ an innovative system
Note:
Data is available for only msm prai and msm johor.
Total Effluent Discharge (m3) for FY2021
1,580,162.
that combines functionalities of our Mechanical Vapour
ReCompressor (MVR) evaporator and Vertical Crystallisation
Tower (VKT) to dramatically reduce the amount of steam
required during the sugar-boiling processes. Where necessary,
we use clean natural gas as an energy source at both refineries.
It is important for MSM to maximise energy efficiencies for
long-term sustainability. Initiatives towards reducing energy
in our operations are being implemented progressively
for instance, switching to energy efficient LED lighting
at the warehouses, using of inverters in the pumps
and continued strive for energy efficiency. For purchased
electricity, we monitor cost savings, if any, based on monthly
electricity bills. For MSM Logistics, a GPS tool tracking
system to monitor fuel consumption is being considered for
FY2022. There are also discussions to consider biogas as an
alternative green energy. Once we have clearer long-term
goals set and measures in place, we will provide more detailed
disclosures in our FY2022 report.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 137
Near Future Energy Initiatives
ENVIRONMENT
INITIATIVES
Solar Energy
BothMSMPraiandSBWareidentified
as viable locations to install the Solar
Photovoltaic (PV) system. Preliminary
visits to these sites have been conducted
by interested vendors to ascertain the feasibility and
capacity of the PV system. The estimated allowable
capacity for MSM Prai and MSM SBW is up to the
range of 2.3MWp and 0.7MWp, respectively.
Upon successful engagement of appropriate
vendors via an open tender process, installation and
commissioning is expected to be completed by the
third quarter of 2022.We foresee a possible reduction
of 10% of current purchased electricity cost.
Biomass
Biomass is an alternative
energy source which we
are considering for our
operations. Feasibility studies
were conducted by consultant
and experts in FY2020 to install a biomass
plant at MSM Johor.The environmental effects
of locating a biomass plant in the vicinity of
a food grade plant was identified as a major
concern, along with other logistics issues.
We are now studying the prospects of locating
the biomass plant at an external site, and
have initiated a joint study with FGV R&D on
the prospects of utilising their resources to
materialise the biomass plant using empty
fruit bunch as the fuel source to commercially
produce electricity and supply to the grid.
Alternative renewable energy source such as
biogas is also being discussed and considered
for green energy.
Energy Audit
Plans are underway to establish a comprehensive Sustainable Energy
Management System (SEMS) in FY2022 to cover all sites including
MSM Prai, the SBW and MSM Johor. This will involve a preliminary
energy audit to ascertain the current overall energy management status.
Subsequently, we will work on preparing
the group-wide energy policy,
establishing energy management
organisation, establish the
documentation system and
targets as well as conduct audits to monitor
the progress. We are targeting to achieve
the Energy Management Gold Standard
1-star rating, awarded by ASEAN Energy
Management Scheme by the second quarter
of 2023.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
138
Natural Gas
(mmBTU)
4,858,897 4,704,522 4,013,625
Diesel (litres) 360,800 604,551 1,225,054
Own Generated
Electricity
Consumption
(kWh)
86,232,467 72,345,310 55,556,395
Total Purchased
Electricity (kWh)
47
,788,573 47
,407
,844 49,763,468
A 14.7% reduction in Natural Gas was recorded by MSM
in FY2021, as compared to FY2020, as there was less
consumption in MSM Johor due to its boiler breakdown
issues. No data from MSM Perlis was also recorded during
the year after its disposal in FY2021.
Diesel consumption was higher in FY2021 due to the inclusion
of diesel consumption by the logistics fleet under MSM
Logistics. This was not tracked in the previous years.
There was overall 23.21% reduction in Own Generated
Electricity Consumption in FY2021 as a result of the
breakdown of the boiler in MSM Johor in second quarter
of 2021. The figure is also lower as there is no data from
MSM Perlis in FY2021 after its disposal.
Note:
The diesel consumption is based on usage for the logistics
fleet, forklifts, excavators and the generator sets. Since FY2021,
diesel consumption at MSM Logistics has been tracked and induded
in our FY2021 data.
2019
2019
2021
2021
2020
2020
The tables below provide an overview of our energy
consumption via various energy sources:
Seek ways to optimise energy reduction
throughout operations
Embarked on feasibility studies on energy reduction
initiatives such as biomass and solar panel installations
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
	Climate Change and GHG Emissions
The impact of climate change presents a significant risk to
MSM’s business as it introduces unpredictability in the supply
of natural resources it depends on. We also see an opportunity
in taking leadership of climate change initiatives as a global
player in the sugar industry and therefore we have a strong
determination to achieve carbon neutrality along with the
ideals of Net Zero as we step up our sustainability journey.
As part of our commitment to address climate change under
our Group Sustainability Policy, we are actively making efforts
and initiatives to minimise our climate change impact including
reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions.
With MSM’s GCEO as a main member of the CEO Action
Network (CAN), MSM will explore CAN’s agenda towards
climate change objectives and a commitment towards
playing its part in the global community to achieve SDG
13 on Climate Action as well as supporting Malaysia’s
Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to the Paris
Agreement to reduce GHG emissions by 45% by 2030.
Through our participation and learnings from this network,
this network, we hope to help steer the MSM Group towards
an effective climate transition strategy, taking into account
the need for financial stability, increased resilience and
sustainability.
Further details on the boiler breakdown are discussed on
page 82
Purchased Electricity consumption was higher by 4.9%.
A high increase was recorded by MSM Johor in FY2021 as it
was unable to generate its own electricity due to the boiler
breakdown issues. There was also increase in demand and
production in the other operating companies during the year.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 139
ENVIRONMENT
INITIATIVES
Concerted energy management plans such as the alternative
energy initiatives, and improving on energy and production
efficiencies across our operations need to be optimised
to contribute to not just help us reduce costs but towards
reducing our carbon footprint as well.
By FY2022, we intend to initiate a comprehensive review
of our GHG inventory that would identify and capture key
emissions from all entities across the Group that come directly
under MSM’s operational control as part of our upcoming
Climate Action and Environment Protection initiatives.
We intend to incorporate climate action measures into our
business strategy and action plans, and will continue to adapt
the way we conduct our businesses to avert the adverse
impacts of climate change.
In FY2022, MSM will actively seek to join and participate
with other organisations such as the United Nations Global
Compact Network Malaysia and the Climate Governance
Malaysia that support climate change related initiatives,
to demonstrate MSM’s support and commitment in
mitigating climate-related risks. MSM is also considering
alignment of our GHG emissions with commitments to the
Science-Based Targets initiatives as well as aligning our
disclosures to the recommendations of the Task force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in the near future.
Upcoming
Climate
Action
Plan
Review and
update of GHG
inventory
Commitment to
reducing carbon
emissions
MSM’s GHG Emissions
As we work to enhance our GHG inventory and develop
a climate change framework, we are also assessing our
standards on GHG disclosures to apply a consistent approach
in consolidating our data. For this year’s report, we compiled
our GHG emissions data as follows:
Scope 1 includes direct GHG CO
2
emissions generated from
our own generated electricity, diesel used for own production,
logistics fleet and natural gas consumption. Scope 1 GHG CO
2
emissions reduced by 14% in FY2021 due to the reduction
in natural gas usage and self-generated electricity in the
production.
Scope 2 covers indirect GHG CO
2
emissions generated from
total purchased electricity. Scope 2 GHG CO
2
emissions
increased in FY2021 as MSM recorded an 5% rise in
purchased electricity due to more intensive production
during the year.
2020
2020
2021
2021
2019
2019
Scope 1 (CO
2
emissions) (tonnes)
Scope 2 (CO
2
emissions) (tonnes)
259,059.1
33,165.3
251,522.5
32,901.1
216,513.4
34,535.8
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
140
Scope 3 includes indirect GHG CO
2
emissions from business
air travels. The limits posed on travel during the Movement
Control orders, as well as Group-wide encouragement to
choose teleconferencing, virtual meetings and car pooling
alternatives, has contributed to the 77% reduction of air travel
emissions during the year. Business Air Travel fell from 115
flights in FY2020 to only 46 in FY2021.
Note:
Our calculation method for Scope 1 GHG emissions is based
on the GHG protocol calculator - https://ghgprotocol.org/
ghg-emissions-calculation-tool, while Scope 2 is based on http://www.
greentechmalaysia.my/carboncalculator/ and Scope 3 is based on the
International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
MANGROVETREE
PLANTING
In conjunction with the National Environment Day 2021
on 13 October, and as part of MSM’s step-up of our ESG
framework, MSM Prai signed a Certificate of Collaboration
(COC) with the Penang DOE, towards realising green
initiatives in preserving and conserving the environment.
This was accompanied by the launch of a Mangrove Tree
Planting programme along the coastal mouth of a river from
which the refinery draws water for cooling purposes.
A total of 700 mangrove saplings were planted alongside
MSM Prai refinery to help rehabilitate the wider ecosystem
and improve the surrounding environment scenic landscape.
Ecological benefits include protection of water quality,
stabilisation of the riverbank and protection of fish habitats.
A hundred more saplings are to be planted as part of this
activity. Mangrove trees are also known to absorb more
carbon than other land-based forests so an increase in
mangrove population mitigates climate change too.
The planting benefits MSM Prai’s refining operations as a
denser network of mangrove roots can better filter sediments,
heavy metals and other pollutants from entering the injection
of water pump at the refinery, which is essential in maintaining
the water quality.
A proper monitoring on the health and growth of the planted
mangrove trees will be carried out to ensure the long-term
viability and sustainable value of the programme.
Everyone in MSM plays an active
role in balancingthe need
between business operations and
preservingthe environment.
By enhancingthe ESG framework
within MSM Group
, we aimto bring
positive sustainability impact
through a wide range of initiatives
Key activity: Seek ways to reduce GHG
CO
2
emissions throughout our operations
• 
Carry out product life cycle assessment to determine
gross product’s carbon footprint
• 
Achieve ISO 14067 (Carbon Footprint), ISO 5001
(Energy Management) certification
• 
Reduce employees carbon footprint through job
rotation for every plant
• 
Obtain green energy from a solar farm probably in
2025-2026 to offset 50% of TNB purchased electric
• 
Manage plastic waste more efficiently in tandem with
Malaysia Plastics Sustainability Roadmap 2021-2030
• 
Continuously improve employees understanding of
climate change and their roles via roadshows, training
and campaigns
Future Forward Plans
Target Activities
2020
2021
2019
Scope 3 (CO
2
emissions) (tonnes)
46.30 6.50 1.51
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 141
Today, having steadfastly progressed our
sustainability journey and continuously
echoing our step-up commitment
towards the ESG framework, we are
progressing as ‘Keluarga MSM’, forging
stronger ties with our communities
and emerging in the radar of investors
beyond Malaysia.
MSM is mindful that well-run operations cascade a multitude of positive impacts
through society. Sustainable businesses strengthen the national economy and meet
societal needs. Since our establishment, MSM has contributed towards national
socio-economic development. The Group’s steadfast expansion into activities
throughout the sugar value chain provides employment opportunities, expands business
possibilities for local vendors as well as supports the development of secondary
industries. MSM has also taken responsibility in shaping a progressive and sustainable
economic landscape by ensuring accountability and transparency in procurement
activities, and complying with relevant quality standards.
Through organisational excellence and recognised brand value, MSM aims to deliver
greater returns for our shareholders, drive better benefits for our employees,
satisfy consumer demands, create more opportunities for our vendors and enable
greater contributions to the community.
SOCIAL
Initiatives
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
142
Youth support
e.g. Prodigy
programme in
alleviating graduate
unemployment
Staff
volunteerism
Diversity
and Women
Empowerment
2021 Social Step-Ups
Charity and
education via
wakalah and CSR
budget
Improve
communities’
socio-economy
Skilling and
Employment
Opportunity
Programmes
Fair Labour
Practices
Vendors and
suppliers
subscribing to
shared values and
practices
Welfare and
well-being of
employees
(including
COVID-19 SOPs)
Sustainable raw
sugar sources
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 143
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
SDG 8
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
ECONOMIC IMPACT
MSM Group’s aspiration to grow market share
domestically and on the export front is anchored on quality
operations that optimises long-term stakeholder value and
maintains the highest standard of food safety and quality.
It is vital for us to achieve sustainable economic excellence
by operating in a safe and environmentally sustainable
manner with integrity and transparent business practices
within a challenging business landscape.
Economic Performance
In FY2021, MSM recorded total revenue of RM2.3 billion
due to better operational performance and the disposal
of MSM Perlis. Profit after tax amounted to
RM125.35 million and a dividend payout of 3.0 sen
per share is offered to our shareholders.
MSM’s economic values generated, retained and
distributed by the Group for the year ended 31 December
2021 are as follows:
Notes:
(a) Refers to the revenues and other income generated by MSM.
(b) 
Refers to operating costs, employee wages, payments to
providers of capital, payments to government and community
investments.
(c) 
Refers to Economic Value Generated minus Economic Value
Distributed.
Economic Value Generated(a)
EconomicValue Distributed(b)
Economic Value Retained(c)
RM2.42 billion
RM2.29 billion
RM125.35 million
Further details of MSM’s economic performance can
be found in the Financial Statements of this Annual
Integrated Report
2020
2021
SDG 12
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND
PRODUCTION
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
144
	Procurement Practices
MSM is committed to ethical procurement practices that
ensure a sustainable value chain to improve traceability of
raw materials sourced, utilised and distributed. The Group
Procurement Policy sets out procurement principles based
on efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability,
internal control, best value, vendor performance,
open competition and smart partnership.
We register our vendors, under the system managed by the
FGV Group Procurement, based on their commitment
to responsible practices and employment rights, safety,
quality and sustainability. We monitor the performance
of our vendors and business partners via the vendor
performance evaluation process to assess their performance
at a standard level and maintain a strong vendor base
with competitive price and high quality service levels.
However, purchase of raw materials or commodities for
production of goods sold (for example: raw sugar, refined
sugar, cocoa) are excluded and are not managed through
this vendor registration system.
All our vendor relationships are based on principles of good
governance without conflict of interest and zero tolerance
towards bribery and corruption. Our procurement process
supports fair and equal treatment of all suppliers and
business partners and separation of technical and commercial
assessments. This is accompanied by clear communication
on any new policies, guidelines and disclosures to our
vendors and business partners to ensure smooth
collaboration.
Where possible, MSM employs locally based vendors and
suppliers to play our national role in supporting a stable local
economy. Procurement expenses from local vendors was
RM329 million in FY2021, an increase from FY2020.
The data tracked on the local suppliers and the local
procurement expenses referred to in the above diagrams
apply to suppliers in Malaysia only. It excludes the raw
materials procurement for the production and items or
services related to the supply chain.
2020
2021
2019
Local Procurement Expenses (RM million)
2019
2020
2021
Total Local Suppliers (%)
96.7%
294.4
98.0%
253.7
98.7%
329.3
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 145
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Supplier Management process
Supplier Selection Process
Market Survey
Screening
Evaluation Criteria
(including ESG data)
Manpower
Experience
Price
Contracting Process
Supplier Selection
Specification Design
Tender Evaluation and
Negotiation
Contract Award
Supplier Performance
Assessment
In December 2021, MSM concluded an agreement
with Wilmar, a Singapore-based agrobusiness
company for MSM to participate in a Sustainable
Sugar Programme, based on a No Deforestation,
No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) Policy.
Under the Sustainable Sugar Programme,
we aim to collaborate with Wilmar to establish a
sustainable sugar supply chain and to participate
in sourcing raw sugar that meet sustainability
requirements as we continuously strive towards
ethical sourcing practices and a supply chain free
of deforestation and conflict. This collaboration
demonstrates MSM’s and Wilmar’s commitment to
protect the environment, labour and communities
while promoting progress in operational efficiencies
and best practices. We expect to actively roll out
this programme in FY2022.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
	Plant Efficiencies
The Utilisation Factor (UF) of our plants measure the
efficiencies achieved during the year under review. This is
impacted by scheduled maintenance to upgrade operational
efficiencies as well as unexpected disruptions due to
equipment breakdowns or plant closures. For higher plant
reliability and efficiency, we strive to ensure our scheduled
maintenance and plant upgrades, where required, are on
track during the year.
However, in FY2021, MSM Johor’s UF was hampered when
it lost 65 days of operations in the first half of 2021 due
to a breakdown of boilers. Though MSM Prai’s plant also
experienced a shutdown in June due to detected COVID-19
cases, the period was much shorter and the plant still delivered
on yield expectations.
The Group took the opportunity to conduct annual shutdown
maintenance and extensive production and reliability
improvement programme for MSM Johor during its extended
shutdown period.
To improve yield performance in MSM Johor, we consulted
an external consultant to propose process optimisation
improvements. Yield performance is important to determine
how much raw sugar is used to generate the final product as
well how much raw sugar is lost during production.
2020
2021
2019
MSM Group Utilisation Factor (%)
48 47 44
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
146
SERVICE & PRODUCT QUALITY
Improve Utilisation Factor
Proactive steps were implemented at all operational
locations to avoid business disruption and ensure the
supply of sugar to consumers was not interrupted
Improve Utilisation Factor
Task team on Ramp Up was established to execute
improvements towards increasing production capability.
A third party i.e Sugar Specialists was engaged for
technical consultation on the refinery’s overall process
optimisation
ImproveYield Performance of >96.6%
Continuous efforts by production team in sustaining yield
above 96.5% and minimise sugar losses throughout the
refining process
ImproveYield Performance
MSM Johor’s production capabilities in Liquid Sugar
and Flavoured Syrups was completed as part of the
momentum to step up creation of value added products
and optimise on the plant’s capacity and capability.
Task team on Yield Improvement was established to
focus on maximising output as well as minimising sugar
losses.
MSM Johor achieved a yield performance rate of 91%
in FY2021.
Key Activities in 2021
MSM Prai
MSM Johor
Target Activities
MSM is capable of producing Coca-Cola
specification sugar, and meeting standards
set by JAKIM Halal Certification Standards
of Malaysia, MS1500:2009, Food Safety System
Certification (FSSC 22000 - Manufacturing),
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Point (HACCP) Certifications and Good
Manufacturing Practices, amongst others
that are relevanttothe industry.
Quoted inThe Edge Markets 7 January 2022
	Product Quality
MSM’s key competitive strength has always been our
consistent delivery of the highest quality of sugar products
to our customers, both locally and abroad. As established
under our Food Safety Policy, we are committed to provide the
safest and highest quality standards preferred by our
customers, and comply to all relevant laws and regulations.
We have in place a Halal Policy to ensure that we produce
halal sugar products in accordance with the all the relevant
statutory and regulatory requirements. Our management
periodically reviews the Group’s established quality objectives
to ensure its suitability, adequacy and opportunity for continual
improvement.
This has built our market leading position for our Gula Prai
brand - the number one best-selling sugar brand in Malaysia,
and 3rd brand listed among the nation’s top FMCG products
(based on Kantar’s Brand Footprint 2021). Our key suppliers
are certified to supply quality materials as part of complying
with rigorous quality inspection standards. In line with
industry expectations for transparency and accountability, the
certifications are clearly displayed on our sugar packaging and
the MSM website for easy identification and reference.
Systematic efforts are taken to address health and safety
across the lifecycle of our products. We have in place a
comprehensive spectrum of product quality processes and
controls by certified bodies which are audited on an annual
basis. These are regularly monitored through performance
indicators that drive continuous improvement and are in line
with industry expectations for transparency and accountability.
2020
2021
2019
MSM Group Yield Performance (%)
94.39 94.62 95.68
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 147
Our refineries are constantly audited to ensure that our
processes are in full compliance and certified with the
following:
Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015)
Food Safety System Certification (FSSC 22000 -
Manufacturing)
Food Safety Management System (ISO 22000)
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) *For MSM Johor
only
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
Certification from the Ministry of Health, Malaysia
As a global exporter, MSM complies with international
standards such as the Halal and Kosher certifications. All our
products are:
Halal-certified under Halal Jabatan Kemajuan Islam
Malaysia (JAKIM)
Kosher-certified by the London Beth Din Kashrut Division
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Full list of certifications available on page 26
Based on the audits and with the relevant certifications
in place, we did not encounter any incidents of
non-compliance with the regulations and the standards
on the health and safety of the products during the
reporting year.
We provide a range of feedback channels for our customers
such as our corporate website, official phone line, email
and social media channels. During the reporting year,
our Group CEO visited key customers to obtain customer
feedback from the ground, fostering closer ties as well as
adding a personal touch in the relationship with the customer.
Customer survey forms are also provided by our sales
representatives to collect customer feedback based on the
quality of the products, availability of stock, performance
of delivery, image of company, ease to do business,
and after sales service given against services provided by
other competitors.
The Group is dedicated to reviewing and responding to all
customer feedback, including product or service-related
complaints. Any received complaint will be investigated once
details are received which include batch code, sugar grade,
quantity affected and request for sample for investigation.
In FY2021, the total number of customer complaints reduced
from FY2020. Generally, we receive complaints from our
customers on packaging or process related issues which
are addressed promptly. The percentage of return product
was on par with the previous year, sustained at a lower level
than in FY2019.
We managed to maintain the target for
returned product as per previous years.
Thorough quality checks are conducted before the
product is delivered to the customer, and every
complaint from the customer will be investigated to
make sure that all orders are fulfilled successfully
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
Gula Prai was ranked 3rd most chosen Fast-Moving
Consumer Goods (FMCG) brands in Malaysia for
FY2020 after Nestle’s brands, Maggi and Milo.
Source: Kantar’s Asia Brand Footprint 2021
2020
2021
2019
2020
2021
2019
Number of Customer Complaints
Total Return Product
Note:
Total return product (%) is computed based on total return product out
of total sales.
149
0.10%
99
0.07%
72
0.11%
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
148
SDG 1
NO POVERTY
SDG 5
Gender Equality
SDG 8
DECENT WORK AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH
TALENT MANAGEMENT and
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
Strengthening human and social
capital, MSM Group is committedto
build and empowerthe employees
through job creation, upgrading
of skills, accessto education
and overall enhancement of
livelihood.We also continually
seek opportunitiesto consult and
align withthe interests of local
communities.
Extract from MSM Group Sustainability Policy
As a responsible employer, MSM upholds the principles
of fair wages and non-discrimination and is committed
to equality, talent development and employee welfare.
We value our employees as the drivers of our growth
and development and provide equal opportunity in
recruitment and career growth regardless of race, caste,
gender, religion, age, physical condition, marital status,
union membership or political affiliation. We define the
way we work, interact and respond based on the following
values and all employees are encouraged to embody the
Group’s SWIIT values in their daily activities:
S
W
I
I
T
Sense of Belonging
Winning Attitude
Integrity
Innovation
Teamwork
SDG 3
GOOD HEALTH AND
WELL-BEING
SDG 4
QUALITY EDUCATION
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 149
In FY2021, MSM hired 153 new employees and has 1,033 employees working in different capacities within the Group.
We constantly review our recruitment, promotion and remuneration principles to ensure they are aligned to industry standards,
local laws and regulations. In all our recruitment offers we strive to provide salary and remuneration packages competitive with
the market.
Our Recruitment Policy provides a sound framework to attract best talents available, and use the most effective methods to
select, hire and assign the right person for the role. The recruitment process starts with proper manpower planning,
to the sourcing and selection of candidates. This Policy applies to permanent employees, being in full-time or in contractual
senior positions.
In FY2021, the Group actively and successfully recruited individuals in strategic roles with expertise in ESG and Digitalisation
to ensure we have the right expertise and team to progress sustainably. These included a Senior Manager and Digital Scientist
for Digitalisation, and an Assistant Manager for ESG projects.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Start
End
Approved
Approved
Manpower
Planning
Budget
Employment
Offer
Recruitment Workflow
Submission
of Manpower
Requisition
Form
Onboarding/
Induction
Sourcing for
Candidates
Selection of
Candidates
Hiring
Decision
No
Yes
Reject
Staff Requisition Form (SRF)
Employment Application Form
Interview Assessment Form
Hiring Proposal
Medical Chit
Letter of Appointment (LOA)
Induction Kit
Relevant Documents
GHR
HOD
Responsibility
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
150
We engage third party contract workers including migrant workers, who make up a part of our workforce involved in the
processing and warehousing activities in our operations. To ensure our commitment to fair labour practices, we are exploring
to align our labour policies and practices with third party labour associations and external social audits in the near future.
Our employment policies and procedures are also encompassed in the Executive Employee Handbook, Training Policy,
Learning & Development Policy and the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (CoBCE). These policies cover relationships
under which work is performed, the extent work is performed as well as issues of discrimination, compensation, promotion,
privacy and human resource development. These policies and procedures are made available on the intranet and some are
available in both English and Bahasa Malaysia for all employees to access and read.
Total Employees
Total number of employees in FY2021
New Employee Hires
Total number of new employee hires in FY2021
EmployeeTurnover
Total number of turnovers in FY2021
Female
Permanent
Male
Contract
Temporary
MSM’s Workforce Profile
Note:

Employees refer to employed individuals
of MSM Holdings, MSM Prai (including
SBW operations), MSM Johor, and MSM
Logistics.
Note:
Total employee turnover includes retrenchment due to cessation of MSM Perlis operations.
1,033 153
2019 2020 2021
16% 89 99 123 8 22
12 7
17 5
84%
2019
2020
2021
159
MSM Holdings
17
(33%)
14
(27%)
7
(7%)
MSM Johor
50
(19%)
35
(11%)
43
(13.5%)
MSM Logistics
0
(0%)
5
(10%)
5
(10%)
MSM Prai
33
(6%)
15
(3%)
28
(10%)
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 151
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Employee Value Proposition
In times of need, MSM commits to look after the welfare of our employees as a responsible and caring employer and in line
with MSM’s value of “People First”
. In FY2021, employee welfare and benefits were focused on employees to ensure they were
supported through the unprecedented impacts of the pandemic. Initiatives included upgrade in medical insurance, food baskets
delivered to staff undergoing home quarantine, back-to-school assistance for non-executive officers, financial assistance through
zakat wakalah as well as funds for sports and healthy lifestyle activities. MSM also extended assistance to staff affected by the
major flash floods in December 2021, with financial assistance, cleaning services and courtesy leave. In this case, MSM even
established a rapid task force comprised of People Partner and HSES representatives, to monitor, communicate and aid our
employees’ situation closely with established hotlines of contact persons at any time required.
To retain our employees and nurture loyalty, we offer a value proposition of being part
of an extended family which we describe as “Keluarga MSM”
. Treating our employees
as family, we continuously improve the quality of benefits for permanent employees,
and extend welfare support beyond the conventional. Regular engagement activities are
prioritised throughout the year through townhalls and to kickstart the respective Sports
Clubs and recreational activities in our operations (with the uplifting of the COVID-19
restrictions) to build a shared sense of purpose and camaraderie.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
152
Maternity and Paternity
Leave
Back to School
subsistence for
children of low-income
employees
Family care for deceased employees
Food and PPE subsidy to employees
undergoing COVID quarantine
SpecialTwo months
financial assistance for
non-executive employees
Emergency Relief Aid
Medical Care Insurance
Sports and healthy
lifestyle funds
Key Welfare and Benefits for ‘Keluarga Msm’
60 employees benefitted
in FY2021
Payout in December 2021
RM59,000for
259
eligible staff
Financial contribution of
60times base salary to
beneficiary
In FY2021, in the case of employee deceased due to
COVID-19, MSM initiated an unprecedented employment
offer to the child of the deceased breadwinner.
Subsidy in FY2020 during first MCO up to 12 May 2020
totalled
RM356,000
Subsidy in FY2021 (up to October 2021) amounted to
RM168,756(MSM Prai)
RM121,202(MSM Johor)
September and November 2021:
639non-executive employees
Total contributed:
RM766,800
Total amount extended to employee
affected by December 2021 flash
flood:
RM3,000
Total amount extended to employee
whose house was destroyed in a
fire:
RM3,000
Total amount extended to employee
for medical treatment of premature
child:
RM18,815
Upgrade of medical care
insurance introduced in FY2021:
√ Room and board upgrade
√ Annual limit increase
√ 
Extended coverage to working
spouse
Sports Club Budget
MSM Johor
RM20,000
MSM Prai
RM20,000
Sungai Buloh Warehouse (SBW):
RM10,000
Primary:
RM100per child
Secondary:
RM150per child
A Foldies Cycling Club was
established at MSM Holdings in
FY2021 for Folding bicycle
enthusiasts within the MSM Group.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 153
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
MSM is committed to a safe and inclusive workplace that
embraces and promotes diversity and equal opportunity.
Our Employee Handbook, outlines an overview and summary
of MSM’s HR policies and procedures which includes clear
guidelines towards nurturing a workplace that is fair, inclusive
and free from all forms of discrimination and sexual harassment.
Our policies also offer both maternity and paternity leave as
part of our employee welfare benefits.
We recognise workforce diversity as an organisational
strength and competitive advantage in retaining and attracting
the best people to improve our business performance.
We value, respect and leverage the unique contributions
of people with diverse backgrounds, experiences and
perspectives to enhance understanding of the needs of our
customers and provide innovative solutions and exceptional
customer service to an equally diverse community.
Towards this end, we have also established feedback channels
for employees to raise concerns, identify amiable solutions
and report instances where they feel violated, disrespected
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
MSM Holdings
MSM Johor
Maternity
Maternity
Maternity
Maternity
MSM Prai
MSM Logistics
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2020
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
2021
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
Though MSM’s workforce within our refineries tends to be
male dominated, in light of factory, machinery and work shift
demands; we are on a journey to balance out gender diversity
from executive level onwards. Towards this end, in FY2021:
MSM introduced the Executive Committee (EXCO) with the
inclusion of one female representative making up 14% of
the gender ratio. This move is a step forward in recognising
the growing contribution of women in MSM.
We recorded a 3.4:1 male to female ratio at Top Senior
Management level compared to 5:1 in FY2020.
At Manager level ratio for FY2021 is 2.8:1 compared to
5:1 in FY2020.
Further details on ourWhistleblowing Policy and mechanism
are highlighted in the Governance topic of this Annual
Integrated Report on page 180
or treated unfairly via grievance mechanism established
under the Employee Handbook. As part of our Whistleblowing
Policy, we have in place a structured grievance and complaints
framework to encourage employees to report these potential
violations without fear of reprisal.
No of Employees Returning to Work after Maternity & Paternity Leave
Paternity
Paternity
Paternity
Paternity
1
1 1 2
1
1 1
1
0 0
0
5 1
10
4 5 3 23 23
37
0
21
0
28
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
154
Total Employees by Gender Total Employees by Gender in each Entity
Total Employees by Category
MSM Holdings MSM Prai
MSM Johor
Top & Senior Management
Non-Executive
Manager Executive
MSM Logistics
2019 2019 2019
2019
2019
2019
2019 2019
2019
2020 2020 2020
2020
2020
2020
2020 2020
2020
2021 2021 2021
2021
2021
2021
2021 2021
2021
Female Male Female Male Female Male
Female Male
Female Male
Female Male Female Male
Female Male
Female Male
Note:
MSM Perlis input in FY2019 and some categories of FY2020 have been removed for fairer
comparison, as there is no data for FY2021 due to disposal of MSM Perlis.
165
4
88
22
37
12
224
52
51
12
272
60
43
26
5
83
276
73
46
142
3
61
44
130
5
72
43
145
30 28 38 52 49 502
63
480
56
48 447
156
3
67
1,082
17
873
893
16
687
163
5
50
870
17
634
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 155
The Group respectsthe rights of
employees and workersto join and
form associations oftheir own choice
andto bargain collectively subjectto
the provisions of relevant regional or
national legislations.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Trade Union
MSM supports the employees right to exercise freedom of
association and collective bargaining with unions as expressed
under the Group Sustainability Policy. Employees of MSM Prai
have established an internal union since 1973 while employees
of MSM Johor are members of a national union, which was
recently formed in FY2021.
We have worked to establish the collective bargaining
agreement (CBA) with the union at MSM Prai, representing our
employees. The CBA is the result of an extensive negotiation
process between the parties regarding topics such as wages,
hours, and terms and conditions of employment. MSM Prai
signed and successfully renewed their CBA with their internal
union in December 2021. MSM Prai has maintained good
relationship with its union members throughout the years
with no major grievances raised. As the trade union was only
recently formed in MSM Johor, MSM Johor is in the midst of
negotiating acceptable terms for a fresh CBA with its trade
union.
Employees Covered by the CBA
As of 31 December 2021, the CBA negotiation for MSM Johor
is yet ongoing.
Forge a stronger alliance and renew CBA
with MSM Prai employees’ union
MSM Prai’s management engaged with the union at
least once a month throughout FY2021 with renewal
of CBA signed in December 2021
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
Talent Development
MSM has established a Learning and Development Policy
to improve employee performance by committing to raise
the capabilities of our employees and provide them with
opportunities to participate in training and development
activities.
Types of training offered to employees range from sessions
to upgrade individual skills towards improved performance to
a variety of training courses for technical, non-technical and
leadership programmes. There are various platforms available
to meet individual training needs, such as online learning using
the Linkedin Learning platform, in-house training addressing
fire-fighting, first aid, emergency response and other ad hoc,
external and internal training courses are also available upon
request or recommendations from the managers.
A talent pool of loyal and skilled employees is vital to our future
expansion plans. In building loyalty and workforce strength,
we have established a Staff Mobility programme anchored
on staff training and development for career progression and
organisational effectiveness.
This enables accelerated learning curves for new employees.
MSM also employs local graduate trainees under the Graduate
Management Trainee Programme. With on-job engineering
and management training, our graduate trainees are quickly
upskilled to allow for ready deployment when required.
Onboarding training is provided for new employees to inculcate
them into the Group’s philosophy, vision, guiding principles,
culture, policies, procedures and focus on safety.
Regular performance reviews are held to appraise employee
performance and identify training needs required to enhance
the personal development and skill sets of MSM employees.
2020
2021
2019
49 58 77
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
156
AverageTraining Hours by Gender &
Employee Category
Total Number of Training Hours
By Gender (Hours)
Male
Female
Non-Management
Management
By Employee Category (Hours)
12.1 33
11.6
9.1
10.9
7
.5
29.5
8.6
174
87
71
45
2019
2019
2020
2020
2021
2021
2020
2020
2021
2021
2019
2019
Total Spent onTraining & Development (RM)
10,311.6 11,315 9,164
251,093 93,183 493,436
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 157
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Nurturing Future Leaders
MSM is passionate about promoting educational and employment opportunities for the youth. Towards alleviating the current
issues of graduate unemployment caused by the current economic situation, MSM launched its Prodigy Programme in FY2021
as a way to give back to the community and nurture better future leaders.This is a six months structured experiential learning and
career development programme that provides selected graduates a platform for continuous development via on-the-job training,
soft skills training, and expert coaching to improve their future marketability and opportunities. At the end of the programme,
successful Prodigy candidates also stand a chance to be absorbed as full-time MSM employees.
In nurturing the potential of future talent, MSM Prai contributed RM209,721 of its zakat and wakalah towards offering three
worthy underprivileged students post-graduate ACCA Scholarships that can ensure their future career success.
MSM’s Prodigy Programme in FY2021 provided 14 candidates a platform for
continuous development via on-the-job training, soft skills training, and expert
coaching to improve their future marketability and opportunities. At the end of
the programme, successful Prodigy candidates stand a chance to be absorbed as
full-time MSM employees.
Assigned to the Packaging Process Department at MSM
SBW.
After several unsuccessful attempts in securing a job
upon graduation, Anis was thankful to receive the offer to
join MSM as a Prodigy. The packaging process is a new
experience for Anis and a good opportunity for her to extend
her knowledge on end-to-end food line processing.
It was difficultto find a job duringthe
pandemic period and I am verythankful for
my opportunity as a Prodigyto expand my
knowledge and experience with MSM. I was
so excitedto get a chanceto visit MSM Johor.
Seeingthe whole sugar packing process was a
valuable eye-opening experience.
ANIS NABIHAH
Food Technology Graduate from UiTM Shah Alam
Life philosophy
There is no turning back. Life must go on!
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
158
Attached to MSM’s Corporate Strategy and Investor
Relations Department.
For Nurul Ain getting chance to work in MSM is like a
stepping stone for her since it was difficult for her to secure
a job due to the COVID-19 outbreak. MSM is a company that
she knows well through the well-known Gula Prai brand of
sugar that she grew up with.
Attached to MSM’s Group Finance Department.
Kamel Aflah chose to join MSM’s Prodigy Programme
because he wanted to have entry-level training across
multiple sectors of a business that would allow him to
develop greater knowledge of the industry and gain wide
skillsets and experiences.
I have learnt so much uptothis point and
am delightedto see whatthe near future
will look like for ME afterthis Prodigy
programme.
I want to learn from the ground level and
slowly climb up the ladder to achieve my
future career goals.
NURUL AIN
Economics graduate from the University of Manchester, United Kingdom
KAMEL AFLAH
Bachelor of Business Administration (Hons.) Finance graduate from UiTM
Life philosophy
Take risks and get out of your comfort zone!
Life philosophy
Everything must take time to create the best
results.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 159
	Labour Standards and Best Practices
Human rights issues are embedded into MSM’s corporate
practices, manuals and policies and include key areas
covering social performance, safety, human resources and
contracting and procurement. In accordance with the Group
Sustainability Policy, MSM recognises its responsibilities
to respect and aspires to meet the requirements of human
rights of its employees and workers as expressed in
the Universal Declaration for Human Rights, the United
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and International Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
As a responsible organisation, we adhere to Malaysian
Employment Laws, that amongst other requirements,
ensures fair minimum wages and fair working hours.
The Group Sustainability Policy provides for MSM to
continuously monitor recruitment process to ensure no
incidents of forced, bonded, compulsory or child labour
occurs in its operating units.
MSM will not condone any irregularities in this aspect and
moving forward, MSM is exploring ways to strengthen its
labour standards and aims to seek guidance in any areas of
improvement by involvement in initiatives or commitments
with frameworks or associations relating to fair labour
standards.
During the reporting year, there were no incidences of any
non-compliance of labour standards involving the Group.
Industry Memberships
As a member of recognised industry-led federations such as
Malaysian Employers Federation (MEF) and the Federation
of Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM), MSM engages with
various stakeholders including our supply chain, regulators
and policy makers, government, as well as our peers across
various sectors to forge partnerships that are committed to
responsible business practices and sustainable development.
MEF is the central organisation of private sector employers in
Malaysia recognised nationally, regionally and internationally.
Established in 1959, MEF promotes and safeguards the rights
and interests of employers with services that include advising
on industrial relations issues and workplace practices assisting
them to meet their statutory Labour and Industrial Relations
obligations.
FMM, since its establishment in 1968, has consistently led
Malaysian manufacturers in spearheading the nation’s growth
and modernisation. FMM represents over 3,500 manufacturing
and industrial service companies of varying sizes and is the
officially recognised and acknowledged voice of the industry.
In January 2022, Tuan Syed Feizal Syed Mohammad,
Group Chief Executive Officer of MSM Malaysia Holdings
Berhad was accepted as one of the 54 members of
CEO Action Network or CAN, a peer-to-peer informal network
of CEOs and Board members focused on sustainability
advocacy, capacity building and performance. Through a
dedicated Working Group, Workstreams and active members
driving bespoke initiatives, CAN aspires to catalyse its
members towards future-ready and ESG-integrated business
models and ecosystems.
MSM has confirmed our active participation in two of the
workstreams, Policy Advocacy and Awareness & Capacity
Building. In the process, we will exchange industry best
practices, and share proven strategies and future-proof
ideas with CAN participants. MSM is currently assessing our
position to be able to join other CAN members to pledge and
publicly announce 14 Collective Commitments to be achieved
under three categories, namely environment, people and
governance by FY2023 or within 3 years of signing up with
CAN. In our next report, we will outline our progress as
well as the specific initiatives rolled-out to drive tangible
outcomes from our collaborative efforts.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
160
Uplifting the Community
MSM engages with local communities through steadfast
commitment to aid the disadvantaged and underprivileged
through contributions of sugar essentials, financial aid
and volunteerism. In optimising our impact, we actively
collaborate and support existing programmes with
various government agencies, welfare institutions and
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs).
MSM’s guiding principle for sponsorships and donations,
as stated in its Sponsorship and Donations Policy, emphasises
on enhancement of humanity, including considerations on
risks and opportunities to the economy, environment and
society. Activities deemed suitable for achieving and granting
sponsorships or donations are:
Community
infrastructure
Emergency
assistance
Humanitarian
effort and
social events
Educational,
research and
publications
Environmental
and sustainable
development
Sports,
healthcare
and related
programmes
CSR Sponsorship
In FY2021, MSM contributed more than 27
,000kg of sugar
products to aid communities and employees impacted
by COVID-19 pandemic and flood disasters. MSM also
contributed cash and in-kind to various CSR programmes
in collaboration with local government agencies and
NGOs; providing support and assistance to underprivileged
segments of society and victims of natural disasters.
A contribution was also made to Wakaf Felda Foundation
which caters to the welfare of over 2,000,000 FELDA
settlers and to the public at large. During the flash floods
in December 2021, MSM extended assistance of over
5,000kg of Gula Prai refined sugar to the Yayasan Food
Bank Malaysia to be distributed to flood victims in the
Klang Valley, Pahang, Kelantan and Terengganu through
several temporary relief centres. A further 483kg was also
handed over to Masjid Al Madaniah, USJ 18 in Selangor,
which helped 281 families of all races and religions,
affected by the floods.
Volunteer Hours
1,693
Corporate Contributions in 2021
Sponsorship & Donations
RM127,148
Zakat & Wakalah Contributions
RM307,252
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 161
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Zakat & Wakalah
At MSM, we view our zakat and wakalah contributions as a
fundamentalwayinwhichwecancontributetowardsuplifting
“Keluarga MSM” in need and underprivileged members of
our community. Zakat or alms giving is based on the Islamic
principle that Muslims should ease the economic burden of
the less fortunate by sharing our earnings and wealth.
Assistance & Volunteerism
MSM encourages employees to engage in programmes
and activities to help uplift marginalised groups and
provide avenues of engagement on how our employees
can assist communities. As in FY2020, our progress on
this front in FY2021 has been quite restricted due to the
MCO lockdowns. Despite that, MSM Prai employees
continued to chalk up 1,264 man-hours performing
volunteer services to clean up a community park in
Taman Tunku, Seberang Prai, helping at community
PPV centres, and providing cleaning and sanitisation for
the local library in Kampung Manis. The park clean-up is
an annual commitment based on MSM Prai’s ongoing
Community Programme with Seberang Prai Municipal
Council, established since 2013. As per the previous
year, activities included maintaining the cleanliness of
the recreational public park, mowing the lawn, as well as
cleaning the area and its facilities.
A key highlight for FY2021 on the volunteerism front
was a further collaboration by MSM Prai with the Penang
Department of Environment, in conjunction with the
National Environment Day 2021, enabling green initiatives
in preserving and conserving the environment. To date this
covers participation in an e-waste recycling campaign and
mangrove replanting with community partners.
Towards the end of FY2021, employees of SBW volunteered
services to their nearby community for flood relief assistance,
food contribution and disinfection of a home and a surau.
2020
2021
2019
Volunteer Hours (Man-Hours)
Taking up the mantel of volunteerism, teams from MSM
Holdings Berhad have also stepped up, the Legal Affairs
team volunteered with Free Tree Society at both its Bangsar
and Taman Tugu nurseries and collaborated with CGRM
to contribute to the planting of 25 trees at the Lower
Kinabatangan Wildlife Sanctuary. This is done through APE
Malaysia’s R.O.A.R initiative. The Group Finance team
organised food distribution for the homeless at Pusat Transit
Gelandangan KL and participated in a plogging activity at
Taman Tasik Titiwangsa.
At MSM Johor, five volunteers also helped purchase,
pack and deliver meals and hand sanitisers to 70 hardworking
frontliners on duty at a Vaccination Centre as part of the
company’s CSR activity.
Note:
Previously, hours measured only covered MSM Prai’s volunteer hours.
From FY2022, the Group has started tracking volunteer activities of
staff at MSM Holdings too. Volunteer hours of staff from MSM Johor
are not tracked yet.
2,000 2,000 1,692.5
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
162
MangroveTree Planting
As part of a strategic collaboration between Penang
DOE and Penang Inshore Fisherman Welfare
Association (PIFWA), MSM Prai initiated a mangrove
tree planting event towards conservation of a wide
ecosystem including protecting water quality, stabilising the
riverbank, and fostering the fish habitat which is a source of
livelihood for the local fishery sector. A fishing community is
located directly across the refinery and thus the well-being
of the mangrove ecosystem is essential for their livelihood.
This is a long-term programme whereby quarterly
maintenance (every three months) will be conducted.
To date, 700 saplings have been planted, and a hundred
more are being planned.
Through this collaboration, MSM Prai has forged a stronger
relationship with local fishermen and the DOE by showing
our commitment to work in partnership to improve our care
for the environment and the surrounding community.
Promotion of National Unity Campaign
Deciding to uplift brand awareness with community
wellbeing, MSM launched a “Janji...Gula Peket Hijau”
campaign that flooded public media channels and social
media through advertisements during Merdeka and Hari
Malaysia. Advertisements promoting “Unity” with the
sweetness of our Gula Prai products showcased and
celebrated all Malaysian states and all dialects. This is
planned as an 18-month programme that will continue until
December 2022.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 163
SDG 3
GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
SDG 8
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
PERFORMANCE
MSM Group is committed to providing a healthy and
safe working environment and actively driving accident
prevention efforts across all our operations. MSM’s group
safety approach aims to create a no-harm, risk-free working
environment for all our employees and for anyone working
at or visiting our premises. We believe that taking care of
people is fundamental to the success of the business.
To achieve this, we operate with a set of standards,
including principles and processes, while encouraging a
culture of respect and compliance.
We view health and safety at our facilities as a crucial enabler
to ensure the Group’s long-term growth, as any hold-ups in
operations due to a failure in health and safety requirements
ultimately contributes negatively to our bottom line.
NO HARM TO ANYONE AT MSM, is our goal to create a
no-harm-to-anyone working environment at MSM
companies. We commit to do whatever is necessary to
eliminate accidents at the workplace.
Towards achieving this, MSM has an established
Safety and Health management system that priorities
high standards of occupational safety and health for
our employees and third parties in line with our
Occupational Health and Safety Standards. These adhere to
international and local health and safety industry standards
by fulfilling the requirements with the Occupational Safety
and Health Act 1994 and Factory & Machinery Act 1967
.
The Group is fully committed to ensuring the organisation
is able to provide a safe, conducive and healthy workplace
by preventing work-related injuries, near-misses, and
occupational ill health by proactively enhancing and further
improving occupational safety and health processes and
performance.
Goals and Aspirations
Our goals are simply stated. No accidents, no harm to
people, and no damage to the environment. We will operate
our facilities safely and reliably, and care for all those on our
sites or impacted by our activities. Everybody who works
for any MSM company is responsible for getting HSSE right.
The health, safety and security of everyone who works
for us are critical to the success of our business. We will
continue to mitigate the environmental and health impact of
our operations by reducing waste, emissions and discharge,
and using energy efficiently.We will produce quality products
that can be used safely by our customers.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
164
U See U ACT
Implemented at all our locations in the course
of FY2021, and this is reflected in the safety numbers
of FY2021. There is a significant decrease in the number
of incidents that might result in a potential fatality in a
context of high-risk related activities. That is exactly where
the U SEE U ACT focuses on. The safety incident rate
dropped by 24% in FY2021, compared with FY2020.
Enhanced on Permit to Work Implementation
A Permit to Work is an on-the-job document that authorises
specified people to carry out non-routine hazardous work
that is not described in a standard operating procedure.
We have a Group-wide standard procedure Permit to
Work that all plants need to follow. Examples of activities
that require a Permit to Work are, among others, working
at height, working in a confined space, and energised
electrical work.
Implementation of SafetyToolboxTalk
Safety toolbox talk was implemented at all MSM locations.
Toolbox talk is an informal way to educate workers overall
about safety, and is the easiest way to ensure that employees
are taught to recognise and avoid unsafe conditions in their
work environment. Toolbox talks are focused on a particular
safety issue, and are meant to raise awareness for workers
to keep safety top of mind. They also help our employees
stay compliant to OSHA and Occupational Health and
Safety. Toolbox Talks are the easiest way to ensure that
your employees are taught to recognise and avoid unsafe
conditions in their work environment.
Below are few of our key initiatives for FY2021 to achieve our objective of ‘NO HARMTO ANYONE AT MSM’:
Iso 45001 Certification
A Surveillance Upgrading Audit - Standard: ISO 45001:2018
was held at MSM Prai and SBW as an additional
site. The audit was conducted from 25 till 29 October 2021
by SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd.
Since the above exercise was done during the COVID-19
pandemic, the new normals applied. The audit was
conducted online as a Remote Audit. Eventually both MSM
Prai and SBW were issued with ISO 45001 certification by
SIRIM QAS International as our Occupational Health and
Safety management system met all required compliances.
Meanwhile, MSM Johor successfully completed the
1st and 2nd stage audit and now awaits pending issuance
of ISO 45001 certification.
MSM’s team is fully committed to ensure the organisation
is able to provide a safe, conducive and healthy workplace
by preventing work-related injuries, near-misses and
occupational ill health by actively enhancing and further
improving our OH&S performance.
Hand Safety Campaign
Injuries related to hands and fingers represent the highest
number of accident reports at MSM Group, and are often
hard to fix and heal. As hands are critical to everyday life and
work tasks, MSM introduced a Hand Safety Campaign in
FY2021 to highlight the importance of avoiding hand injuries
by wearing the right gloves for the job.
The campaign was launched by the Group HSES of MSM at
all MSM locations. The campaign reminded all employees
on the importance of protecting our hands while at work,
and building a culture of prevention in the workplace so that
everyone can work in a safe environment.
MSM Prai is currently restructuring and improving
the existing Hand Safety campaign by initiating a
“I Glove You” programme. This programme will emphasise
the importance of wearing proper PPE to protect
our employees’ hands. “I Glove You” is scheduled to be
launched on April 2022 and will involve employees from
all departments.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 165
HSES & Quality (HSES&Q)
Our occupational health and safety performance is managed by
the Group HSES&Q Committee. There are 21 members in the
committee in Johor, Prai has about 25 members and SBW has
its own HSE committee too.
The Group HSES&Q Committee maintains a continuous
monitoring, measurement and reporting cycle of HSES&Q
performance to create a standardised ecosystem of health
and safety awareness for operations to follow through for
consistent practices. The Group is determined to further
enhance the safety culture and systems across all our
operations and influence cultural change with our contractors
to prevent incidents.
Our process of shared incident information across the Group,
including shared corrective and preventative actions and
positive confirmation of actions, strengthens our mitigation
of risks. It is further supported by recognised investigative
techniques to address and mitigate causes through corrective
and preventative actions, for significant actual and potential
incidents.
Each MSM subsidiary has its own HSE and
Safety & Health Committee, headed by a Chairman, at their
respective sites. Employees from various departments,
Trade Union representatives, and contractors also participate
in the Safety and Health Committee meetings at the
operations level. The primary purpose of this committee is to
facilitate cooperation between departments, managers, and
employees to identify, address, and resolve health and safety
concerns.
The Monthly Safety performance for each location will be
reported through the HSES dashboard to Group HSES&Q and
this will be followed with presentations to the EXCO members
during monthly exco meetings.
Safety awareness is a constant realisation that every employee
should have at all times. It involves being constantly aware
of how they are working, and being able to recognise the
hazards they face. Safety awareness is absolutely essential
in mitigating safety-related risks. MSM Safety awareness
programmes are communicated through monthly newsletters,
safety inductions, HSE meetings, Daily Toolbox talk, townhall
messages via the whatsapp platform.
Processes on Reporting, Identification &
Eliminating Work-Related Hazards
A structured framework of responsibility has been put in
place to manage occupational health services’ functions that
contribute to the identification and elimination of hazards and
minimisation of risks at our refineries. MSM ensures the quality
of these services and facilitates workers’ access to them.
The following list provides an overview of the responsibilities
and tasks in place to minimise work-related hazard risks in
our operations:
Workplace conditions
We monitor workplace conditions such as noise, dust and
temperature, and are defining and implementing a roadmap
to make further improvements. Our new investments take
Into account strict standards with regards to all working
conditions.
Handling and storing chemicals
Throughout the company, we pay special attention to the
safe handling and storage of chemicals. A database records
all chemicals used in our plants and strict health and safety
guidelines apply to our employees. Employees who are
exposed to potentially hazardous materials go through
a medical check-up once a year. We are developing and
optimising techniques and processes that eliminate the
need for hazardous chemicals for the operations.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Restructured Health, Safety, Environment &
Security Department
MSM has improved the existing safety reporting structure
by establishing Health, Safety, Environment and Security
(HSES) as a new department at Group level, monitoring
safety and health issues across all locations. A HSES Lead
was appointed to monitor all HSES procedures and the
department recommends Group-wide strategies to avoid
accidents and safety hazards and drive health and safety
action plans.
The HSES Department reports to the Head of Group
Health, Safety, Environment & Security and Quality
(Group HSES&Q). This restructuring provides more synergy
and oversight for an improved safety culture.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
166
Systemised processes are used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis. A hierarchy
of controls are then applied in order to eliminate hazards and minimise risks, including how the organisation ensures the quality
of these processes as well as the competency of persons who carry them out as follows:
The following lists the processes for workers to report work-related hazards and hazardous situations:
The findings and results from these processes are used to evaluate and continually improve the occupational health and safety
management practices through the following methods:

Safety and Health Officer (SHO) Monthly Report -
The Mechanism for capturing what is happening on site
so that safety teams, engineers and management can
understand what is happening and make decisions on
how and what to improve

Safety & Health Committee Workplace Inspection -
The workplace is inspected to identify potential hazards
by the committee

Submission of U SEE US ACT to HSES&Q Department
upon any findings of unsafe acts, conditions or near-miss
accidents

Highlight during Safety and Health Committee Meeting

Discuss in weekly meeting with Group Chief Operating
Officer (GCOO)

The inspection findings will be communicated to the
person in-charge through email for corrective action to
mitigate the risk

Conduct Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment &
Risk Control (HIRARC) - To identify potential hazards in
a company to assess the probability of an accident or
financial loss

Safety Toolbox Talk - An informal safety meeting that is
part of an organisation-wide safety programme

Highlight any new risks, new hazards or any safety issues
during Safety Toolbox Session

Employee to directly or verbally raise any issue to
HSES&Q personnel

Conduct Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment &
Risk Control (HIRARC) - To identify potential hazards in
a company to assess the probability of an accident or
financial loss

All the Permit to Work (PTW) will be recorded and shared
to all HOD and person in-charge for better monitoring
Environmental compliance
In line with the ISO 14001 requirements, a company-wide process for lifecycle (3R) management has been developed.
The process aims to identify potentially significant environmental impacts in the entire supply chain and considering all
the stages of the lifecycle of our finished products and how to address them in an appropriate way.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 167
Investigations and findings of reported incidents
Actions taken following reported incidents
Incident Reporting & Mitigation
In cases of accidents or incidents leading to injuries or fatalities,
steps are taken to immediately investigate and then disclose
the following:
Accident Statistics
2020
2021
Days lost
to Injury
Incident
Rate (%)
Cases
Lost-time incident rate (LTIR)
2019 2020 2021
Note:
LTIR is calculated by number of lost time injuries x 1,000,000 divided
by employees’ total hours worked.
In FY2021, we made an impressive breakthrough in safety
performance. The efforts and dedication to improve safety
have been successful. While every accident or life-altering risk
that occurs on our premises is one too many, we are proud of
the progress we have made with our teams.
• 
In FY2021, MSM achieved a lower Lost-Time Incident
Frequency Rate as compared to FY2020.
• 
The Lost-Time Incident Frequency Rate was decreased from
4.3% to 3.9% lower than last year, driven by the reduction in
incidents that led to lost time.
• 
The number of cases decreased by 24% from FY2020,
of which one work-related contractor fatality was recorded.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
Training & Awareness
In order to keep abreast with current regulatory requirements
and equip employees with new skills, various training
programmes are offered for our employees and contractors to
carry out their respective tasks safely and effectively.
Emergency
Preparedness
Trainings
• Refresher SCBA Training
• Mock Drill Spillage
• Fire Drill
• Hose Drill
HSE Awareness &
Trainings
• Permit-to-Work (PTW) System
• Safety Induction Training on PPE
• Chemical Awareness Training
• Housekeeping & Cleanliness S.O.P
• Working at Height
• Scheduled Waste Management
• Welding Safety
• HIRARC Training
• 
Handling Hot Water Washing
• 
“U See U Act”
• 
Forklift Safety
• 
MKN S.O.P My Sejahtera & Health
Declaration Internal Training
Areas ofTraining Training Programmes
4.3 3.9
36 176 29.46 22
6,202
29 409
18.23 13.65
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
168
In FY2021, a majority of MSM employees and contractors
attended the training modules and programmes (listed on the
left) conducted across the Group. Over 7
,000 HSE training
hours were conducted during the reporting year.
2019
2020
2021
Total Number of HSETraining Hours
Areas ofTraining Training Programmes
Competency
Trainings
• 
Forklift Driver Competency Training
• 
How To Install & Dismantle The
Modular Scaffolding Type
Emergency
ResponseTeam
(ERT)
• 
‘Line Of Fire’ Training
• 
‘Hand Safety’ Training
• 
First Aid Training
Noise Pollution
Control
• 
Noise Risk Assessment
2,666 2,090 7
,041
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 169
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
2021 HSE Activities
HSE Activities, Initiatives and Campaigns
MSM constantly carries out and promotes activities aimed at preventing work injuries from occurring and the creation of a safe
and healthy work environment.
“No Harm to Anyone at Msm”
.
“U See U Act” - a channel for employees of MSM Prai and MSM Johor to report the following via Google forms:
• Unsafe Acts
• Unsafe Conditions
• Near-Misses
Hand Safety Campaign - to tackle issues related to hand safety based on inspections and audits on routine practice and
machinery used inside the operations area.
Addressing COVID-19 with mitigation action plan.
• Developed Covid-19 SOPs
• Weekly RTK test
• Workplace sanitisation
• Health Talk for Vaccination Awareness
• COVID-19 Vaccination Awareness
• PIKAS Vaccination Programme
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
170
Promoting Employee Health & Healthy Lifestyles
• 
As part of the DOSH requirements, pre-employment and annual tests for eye and ear by an OHD (Occupational Health Doctor)
are carried out.
• 
Stress Relieve Tips on HSES&Q newsletters to promote mental health and well-being.
• Foldies Cycling Club in MSM Holdings to encourage a healthy and fit lifestyle.
• 
Revival of Sports Club activities in MSM Prai and MSM Johor as restrictions slowly eased up.
Emergency Preparedness & Response
• 
Close working relationship with surrounding local agencies, fire department and nearby hospital facilities.
• 
MSM Prai has an on-site clinic at Prai with a full-time nurse available.
• 
MSM Johor established a clinic with medical support and facilities available during working hours to deal with any medical
emergencies. The appointment of a doctor and nurse is ongoing, pending negotiations with the Vendor.
• 
Defibrillator provided on site.
• 
Training is provided for the ERP team to ensure that they are First-Aid certified.
Note: List of training is provided on previous page.
Strengthen the safety culture across MSM Group through awareness programmes and
training
7
,041 hours of HSE training and awareness conducted across the Group
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
It goes without saying that we don’t ever want fatalities or accidents with life-altering injuries to occur. We are proud to see the
impact of the many safety trainings, awareness campaigns, safety standards and risk assessments on our safety results.
We will continue our efforts in making MSM a safe place to work.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 171
Enhancing COVID-19 Management
Last year the MSM Group lost four co-workers as a result of
COVID-19.Though all were contracted through community and
not on site, MSM Prai faced a week-long closure to avoid any
spread of the virus at site. This exemplified to the Group the
importance in steadfastly enhancing COVID-19 management
to safeguard our operating procedures.
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
With tireless and continuous efforts in ensuring and
protecting the employees health and working environment,
the Management continued to invest in ways to curb
positive cases of COVID-19 and at the same time protect the
workforce of MSM. Some of these initiative and measures
surpass requirements set by the authority (MITI).
COVID-19 SOPs and Additional
MeasuresTaken
1
Appointing Medical Doctors and
Healthcare Nurses for Daily Screening
and Entrance Control
A team of medical doctors and health nurses have
been appointed to conduct screening of all workers
before they enter the factory. This is to ensure that
employees who come to work are in good health
and fit to work. The below categories of employees
are not allowed to come in and work:
Those with the above symptoms are not ALLOWED
and will be required to visit a clinic and get medically
checked. They will then be advised to stay at home
and return to work only when they are free from the
above symptoms or illness.
Body temperature of more than 37
.5°C
Shows any sign of symptoms i.e. fever, cough, sore
throat, headache, stomachache, flu
MySejahtera status is not updated everyday
MySejahtera status shows MEDIUM or HIGH RISK
(Only LOW RISK status are allowed)
MSM HQ 14 0
MSM Prai 136 4
MSM Johor 118 0
SBW 65 0
Total 333 4
Recovered Deceased
MSM Prai
MSM Johor
SBW
MSM HQ
Total Positive Cases as at 31 December 2021
Note:
Total number of cases include employees and contractors.
14 140 118 65
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
172
2 5
3
4
Rtk-Antigen SwabTest
RTK Antigen Swab Tests are conducted almost on a
daily basis for all suspected cases with symptoms,
and immediately for close contacts. It is also conducted
for all the employees on a weekly basis. This is to ensure
that any positive carriers can be traced and eliminated
at the earliest stage, and close contact tracing can be
done immediately.
Sanitisation and Disinfection by
External Party
An external party has been engaged to conduct
sanitisation and disinfection at all the common areas
of MSM work sites. This is conducted monthly at
MSM headquarters, and three times per week at our
refineries, without fail, to ensure a safe workplace
for all employees and contract workers. Sanitisation
at surrounding areas outside the refineries are also
conducted three times a week.
6
Hand Sanitisers
Hand sanitisers are provided at every entry point of the
factory, toilets, meeting rooms and common places.
Daily Sanitisation by Every Department
and Employees
Hand sanitisers and sanitiser spray guns are made
available to all departments for daily sanitisation and
records are kept to ensure this is executed.
7
Physical Distancing and Online Meetings
Physical distancing is very well managed by the Security
team to ensure no physical touching occurs at any time.
Face to face meetings are not encouraged and only Online
meetings are allowed. This is to avoid physical contacts and
being in a confined space.
All meeting rooms are also reduced in capacity and extra
chairs are removed or strapped to strictly avoid any
unauthorised usage.
Face Mask
Every month, a box of face masks is provided to all
employees including contracts workers. The Safety
and Health team monitors the compliance for both the
wearing of face mask and face shield.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 173
SOCIAL
INITIATIVES
GUIDELINES BEFORE ENTERING
MSM GROUP’s PREMISES
All staff, contractors and visitors
who enter MSM premises must
always wear a face mask
Self-report, record attendance and
check body temperature
at the guard house
STOP
COVID-19!
Check in using MySejahtera
Fill in Google form ‘Health
Declaration Form’
for company references
Always wash your hands
using soap or hand sanitiser
provided
All staff, contractors and visitors
entering MSM premises must
comply with 1 meter pysical
distancing
1
2
3
4
5
6
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
174
We will always be connected with ESG
when we conduct our business.
In protecting stakeholders interests,
decent returns must be provided with
proper risk management and
governance. These are prerequisites for
value creation, trustworthiness
and for access to capital.
MSM’s Group Sustainability Policy ensures that MSM integrates holistic sustainability
approaches in its business strategies and decision making as recommended in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (MCCG 2021), and in compliance with
Bursa’s provisions relating to sustainability disclosures and reporting.
Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption
practices
Improve
transparency
and disclosures
Development of
Organisational
Corruption Plan
2021 Governance Focus and Step-Ups
Integrity
Pledge and
awarenesss
programmes
Review
and update
procedures
and controls
adequacy
GOVERNANCE
Initiatives
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 175
GOVERNANCE
INITIATIVES
SDG 16
PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS
GOVERNANCE
A continuous effort on embedding good governance
and inculcating a culture of high integrity are priorities.
MSM Group's turnaround plan focuses on a high
performance culture anchored on governance and integrity.
It is everyone's role to ensure proper governance, integrity
and adopting best practices at all times to ensure our
success and safeguard our businesses. Strong and
adequate controls have been put in place to manage all
aspects of our business and ensure that our employees
feel supported to do the right thing.
The Board anchors the Group’s strong corporate
governance culture to support sustainable and successful
execution of MSM’s strategy and strengthen trust and
confidence among our investors and stakeholders.
The Board’s Audit Governance & Risk Committee
(AGRC) supports the Board in fulfilling its statutory
and fiduciary responsibilities, especially in the areas
of financial reporting, governance, risk management
and sustainability practices. In FY2021, we have
strengthened our Board and governance structures through
the appointment of two new members. They are:
Nik Fazila Nik Mohamed Shihabuddin
appointed on 18 October 2021
Azman Ahmad
appointed on 18 October 2021
MSM is confident that diversity in our leadership teams
will create and deliver value and drive MSM forward
towards creating a resilient and sustainable business.
Note: The approach taken by the Group and information about
the Group’s corporate governance principles, structure and
practices; Board of Directors, roles and board committees;
risk management; internal and external control can be found in
the Corporate Governance Overview Statement and Committees’
Report of this FY2021 Annual Integrated Report, on page 208.
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
176
Ethical Business Practices & Integrity
Sense of
Belonging
Winning
Attitude
Integrity
Innovation
Teamwork
CORE
VALUES
W
I
I
T
S
To elevate and uphold good governance, MSM has established
and implemented policies on the following:
The Governance of Policies and Procedures Policy provides a
framework to ensure a structured formulation, standardisation
and management of all policies and procedures for the
MSM Group. All policies must be approved by the
MSM Board and are kept in a Central Depository
System (CDS) managed by the CGRM department.
These processes are in place to ensure a proper internal
control system through adequate policies and procedures
in directing and managing the business operations.
In promoting ethical business
practices, MSM is committed in
applying the highest standards of
ethical conduct and integrity in its
business activities.
INTEGRITY STARTS WITH YOU
ANTI-BRIBERY
POLICY STATEMENT
External Gift,
Entertainment
& Hospitality
Policy (GEH)
Asset/Personal
Interest
Declaration
Policy (APID)
Sponsorships &
Donations Policy
Governance
of Policies &
Procedures
Policy
Anti-Bribery
Policy
Statement
Referral Policy
Conflict of
Interest Policy
Code of
Business
Conduct and
Ethics
Whistleblowing
Policy
Great companies operate with great
integrity.That is my expectation
andthat is how we will keep growing,
winning, and achieving our bold
aspirations for manyyearsto come
Datuk Syed Hisham Syed Wazir
MSM Chairman
MSM is committed in conducting business legally,
ethically, and with integrity. We have in place policies that
communicate our principles on bribery, gifting, corruption,
code of business conduct, which are available to all our
employees on MSM’s internal portal. We continually
work to inculcate a culture of integrity through awareness
programmes, such as periodic communication, training
workshops and integrity talk that focuses on good governance
& integrity and anti-corruption.
MSM’s governance culture is defined through our Constitution,
Board Charter, MSM Governance Framework, Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics (CoBCE) and our SWIIT Core
Values. We also have policies, practices and procedures
adopted throughout our value chain to ensure ethical business
conduct. The Corporate Governance and Risk Management
(CGRM) department oversees the ethics and compliance
function and works to promote a culture that is committed
to ethical business conduct across the MSM Group.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 177
GOVERNANCE
INITIATIVES
Ethical Business Conduct
MSM has recently launched the refreshed CoBCE which
establishes clear expectations for employee compliance
with MSM’s policies, and applicable laws and regulations
related to lawful and ethical business practices. These reflect
a culture of trust, integrity, transparency, holds employees
accountable for their behaviour and helps employees
determine when and where to seek advice. The CoBCE
applies to all employees of the MSM Group. For all new
employees, the contents of the CoBCE are covered under
their onboarding programme and are expected to be signed
and acknowledged for Human Resources department’s record.
The CoBCE applies the following six universal principles on
business practices following the Malaysian Business Code of
Ethics (Rukun Niaga):
Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption
Over the reporting year, MSM has been focusing on
improving its anti-bribery measures and compliance.
The Board has oversight over the Groups Anti-Bribery &
Anti-Corruption initiatives captured through the various
approved anti-bribery related policies which is summarised
in the Anti-Bribery Policy Statement (4th October 2021),
which aims to uphold MSM’s commitment to prevent
corruption and bribery and mitigating the risk of bribery and
corruption within the Group, as prescribed by Bursa’s Main
Market Listing Requirements & Guidelines on Adequate
Procedures for Corporate Liabilities as provided under the
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act 2009
(Amendment Act 2018).
The Anti-Bribery Policy Statement is a general statement
addressing corruption including bribery comprehensively
in seven specific policies and code: CoBCE, APID,
Whistleblowing, Referral, Conflict of Interest, Sponsorships
& Donations and the GEH. Some examples of related bribery
and corruption activities are covered under the GEH, a Policy
which aims to eliminate solicitation and bribery that may arise
in the cause of giving and receiving of gift, entertainment
and hospitality. Sponsorship and Donations Policy provides
guideline on the framework by which corporate sponsorships
and donations shall be evaluated and the procedures by which
decisions regarding corporate sponsorships and donations
shall be made.
Honesty in
Business
Dealings
Moderation
in Business
Conduct
Responsible Towards
Customers, Society
and Environment
Fair Treatment
Towards Suppliers
and Customers
Geniality
Towards Fellow
Humans
Zeal in Making
the Business a
Success
1
4
2
5
3
6
Whistleblowing
Policy
Conflict of
Interest Policy
Referral Policy
Sponsorships &
Donations Policy
External Gift,
Entertainment &
Hospitality Policy
Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics
Asset/Personal
Interest Declaration
Policy
7 Policies in the
Anti-Bribery Policy Statement
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
178
Training is provided for staff and suppliers to build awareness
and necessary capacity to identify and counter relevant forms
of bribery and corruption activities in our business dealings.
For new business counterparties, employees must ensure
due diligence is conducted to understand the business and
background and to determine the origin and destination of
money, property, and services as required under the CoBCE.
In addition, a Corruption Risk Management (CRM) exercise
was conducted for the Group.This is to ensure we continue to
identify potential corruption risks in our operations.
As defence against corporate liability for corruption offences
committed by person associated with MSM, as defined
under Section 17A of the MACC Act 2009 (Amendment
Act 2018) MSM is putting in place measures as per Guidelines
on Adequate Procedures.
The performance of our anti-corruption initiatives is reviewed
every quarter by our Management, Board Committee
and Board. We evaluate the progress and success of our
initiatives through a number of channels, including obtaining
stakeholder feedback, benchmarking and performance
tracking. We pay particular attention to the yearly
assessments conducted by corporate governance
watchdogs such as the Malaysian Institute of Corporate
Governance (MICG) and Minority Shareholders Watch
Group (MSWG).
The MSM Anti-Bribery Policy Statement is available on the
Company’s website at www.msmsugar.com
MSM has taken a holistic approach to develop and
implement adequate procedures by adopting the following
principles (T.R.U.S.T):
T Top Level Commitment by Board, Executive Leadership
& Management
Risk Management through Corruption Risk Management
(CRM)
Undertake Control Measures via the establishment and
review of policies and procedures
Training and Communication on Governance, Integrity &
Risk education, awareness and periodic communication
Systematic Review, Monitoring and Enforcement which
includes regular review on performances, efficiency and
effectiveness of the anti-corruption programme, and
ensure the enforcement
R
U
T
S
One successful initiative
under Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption was
the quicktake up and 100%
signing ofthe Integrity
Pledge.
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 179
MSM has conducted the Corruption Risk Assessment exercises throughout the Group in collating and comprehensively
assessing the significant risks and potential incidents of corruption to combat corruption more effectively. MSM has zero tolerance
for fraud, abuse of power and corruption and takes all incidents reported very seriously.
GOVERNANCE
INITIATIVES
Whistleblowing
MSM’s Whistleblowing Policy provides a framework
to facilitate and encourage any disclosure of
corruption, fraud, improper conduct without fear of
punishment or unfair treatment and aims to protect
any whistleblower’s identity from being victimised
or harassed. This mechanism provides an avenue for
any employee or any member of the public to raise
any complaints of any improper business conduct
in a confidential manner. Although the whistleblower
is encouraged to provide his or her name in order
to be protected by the Policy, all anonymous
whistleblowing allegations are accepted.
The Whistleblowing Committee (WBC), headed
by Head of the CGRM, receives all complaints
reported through any of the established
whistleblowing channels that includes a dedicated
email address, helpline, letter or directly to the
Whistleblowing Secretariat.
MSM Whistleblowing Policy is available on
the Company’s website at www.msmsugar.com
WHO can whistleblow?
• Employees
• Board of Directors
• Shareholders
HOW to report?
• Email your concern to MSMWB@msmsugar.com
• Call hotline at 03-21816827
• 
Send letter to
MSM WB Secretariat
Level 44, Menara Felda, Platinum Park, No. 11
Persiaran KLCC 50088, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
WHAT to whistleblow?
• 
Breach of Company’s policies and code of conduct
• Improper conduct
• Unethical behaviour
• Actual/suspected fraud
• Abuse of power
• Members of the public
• 
Any parties involved in business
relationship with MSM Group
IFYOU SEE ANY WRONG-DOING OR
MALPRACTICE, SPEAK UP SO WE CAN ALL
CHANGE IT
INFORMATION & IDENTITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER
WILL BE PROTECTED
WHO WE ARE STATEMENT & DISCUSSION BY OUR LEADERS HOW WE OPERATE
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2021
180
Conflict of Interest
The Conflict of Interest Policy guides employees of the MSM
Group in avoiding any potential conflict of interest situations
by requiring timely disclosures and declarations on any conflict
of interest situations. The CoBCE also prohibits employees
from putting themselves in a conflict of interest situations
or allowing personal interest to take precedence over an
employee’s work commitments and allowing such conflict of
interest or personal interest to hinder their duties to the Group.
CONFLICT
OF INTEREST
POLICY
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
MSM endeavours to adhere to all applicable laws and
regulations in the areas of its operations.
The Management is uncompromising in upholding the
highest standards of integrity and will investigate violations
of business conduct reported and, if found true, will take
stern measures accordingly without fear or favour. In addition,
the Management will not hesitate to extend the full reach of
the laws in the country i.e. SPRM (Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission) and PDRM (Royal Malaysia Police) for such
violation of business conduct including acts abetting such
violations.
Responsibility of employee to disclose
and declare his/her potential situation of
Conflict of Interest
Responsibility of every employee to
report any Conflict of Interest upon their
knowledge
Failure to comply with this
requirement subject to disciplinary
action as prescribed in the CoBCE
We ValueYour Feedback
We aim to develop our sustainability goals and
strategies further with the benefit from collaborative
discussions and engagements with our stakeholders.
Therefore, once our reports are published, we listen
carefully to stakeholders’ feedback where more
clarifications and explanations are desired within
our disclosure topics. We welcome all comments,
suggestions and feedback on our sustainability practices
and reporting. Please send us a message via email to
esg@msmsugar.com.
The Management also will not tolerate any abuse of
MSM Group’s policies, procedures, and any conducts that is
not aligned with MSM Group’s values, which potentially risks
the integrity of our business, the reputation, and image of
MSM Group, and the Gula Prai brand.
Uphold anti-corruption and ethical
behaviour across the MSM Group
Anti-Bribery Policy Statement (4 October 2021)
Organised Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption campaign
100% Integrity Pledge achieved and signed by all
employees
Conducted Corruption Risk Management (CRM)
Workshop to identify potential corruption risks in
MSM Group
Preparedness in meeting the
requirements of Section 17A of the
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
Act 2009
Developing and implementing adequate procedures
under the principles of T.R.U.S.T
Key Activities in 2021
Target Activities
SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HOW WE ARE GOVERNED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 181
