HEALTHIER
PLANET
Farm Fresh Berhad
140
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Implementing circular farming practices is crucial for
reducing the environmental impact of our operations, a
concern magnified due to the proximity of many of our
farms and land banks to protected natural environments
and local communities. Through waste minimisation,
resource recycling and by-product reuse, we lower our
carbon footprint, mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions and conserve water and land resources. These
combined efforts deliver benefits across the value chain,
improving livestock health, safeguarding the nutritional
value of our products and preserving the fertility and
integrity of our farmland.
CIRCULAR PRACTICES
Sedimentation Phytoremediation Slow Sand Filtration
Rainwater Harvesting
Microbial
Vermifiltration
Pasture
Irrigation
Barn Washing
& Flushing
Vermicomposting
Organic
Fertiliser
Compost
Bedding
COWS
Solid Separation
Solid Waste Farm Dairy Effluent (FDE)
Related
UNSDG
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Embracing Regenerative Agriculture Practices
With the bulk of our operations undertaken in farms, the
majority of the waste our business produces primarily
consists of organic waste generated by our herd, which
can be further categorised as solid waste and farm dairy
effluent (FDE). To drive circularity, our efforts have thus
been focused on adopting regenerative agriculture
practices to maximise the recycling of such waste and
convert them into usable natural resources.
Since 2014, we have progressively increased our use of
regenerative agriculture techniques at all our farms.
Through the adoption of these circular practices, our
farms are able to reduce our reliance on external inputs,
especially chemical fertilisers, and transform animal waste
into resources that fulfil essential farming functions. These
include turning solid waste into organic fertiliser and
usable components for cow bedding, and liquid waste into
water used for pasture irrigation and cleaning barns.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 141
These regenerative agricultural initiatives, as further detailed below, enable us to redirect a significant volume of animal
waste away from landfills and sewerage systems each year. This helps to mitigate methane emissions resulting from
landfill decomposition and chemical treatments for sewerage systems, while reducing our reliance on external water
sources and chemical fertilisers, the latter of which may have a negative impact on soil health.
Type of Waste
Processing
Outcomes and Processes Undertaken Benefits
Solid Waste
Processing
Organic Fertiliser
African Nightcrawler worms are used to break
down the solid waste produced by our cows
into vermicompost (worm castings).
The vermicompost produced for compost
bedding is also used as an organic fertiliser for
our pastures, enriching the grass that forms a
significant part of the cows’ feed.
• Creates the perfect feed for vermiculture composting
after five to six months
• Eliminates significant waste discharge into our
drainage system
• Eases our reliance on chemical fertilisers
• Enriches the physical characteristics of our soil, such
as water-holding capacity, aeration and porosity,
thereby enhancing soil fertility
• Ensures more nutritious feed for our cows
FDE Processing After solid separation, the FDE undergoes
three essential processes to ensure its safe
and effective reuse in our farms:
Sedimentation
The effluent is allowed to settle in sedimentation
ponds, where gravity helps remove any
remaining solids from the liquid waste.
Phytoremediation
Living plants are utilised to treat the effluent,
effectively eliminating contaminants and excess
nutrients.
Slow Sand Filtration
The effluent is then passed through a slow
sand filtration system, which removes turbidity
and pathogenic organisms.
• Decreases our dependence on external water supplies
• Eliminates significant waste discharge into our
drainage system
• Lowers groundwater and surface water contamination
by limiting the release of toxic waste into the
environment
Barn Washing and Flushing
The treated water, along with recycled
rainwater, is subsequently used for washing
and flushing our barns.
FDE Processing Microbial Vermifiltration
After undergoing solid separation and
sedimentation processes, the treated FDE
undergoes microbial vermifiltration, a biological
wastewater treatment method using
composting worms.
Pasture Irrigation
After this, water suitable for irrigating our
pastures is developed and subsequently
utilised.
• Releases valuable nutrients for plant growth,
contributing to enhanced feed quality for our cows
and produce for our customers
• Ensures year-round production of nutritious grass by
providing sufficient water to pastures, even during the
dry season
Farm Fresh Berhad
142
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Healthier Planet
Transforming Waste into Fuel
Our approach to circular farming also extends to the adoption of waste-to-fuel practices. As an agricultural entity, biogas
plants provide us with a viable opportunity to turn animal and agricultural waste into clean and renewable energy.
To this end, we have partnered with Green Lagoon Technology Sdn Bhd to develop a new biogas facility in our Muadzam
Shah farm, which will utilise cow manure to facilitate biofuel production. Following construction and testing throughout
FY2024, our new biogas plant commenced operations in April 2024 and is targeted to have a reduction of 9,800 tonnes
carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) per annum and a targeted displacement or reduction of diesel usage of 670,000 litres
per annum. For more information, refer to the “Energy and Emissions” section of this statement.
• 146,730 tonnes of solid animal waste extracted from waste discharge and repurposed into organic fertiliser.
• 418.56 million ℓ of FDE recycled and used for barn washing and pasture irrigation.
• 1,486,520 kg of chemical fertiliser eliminated from our production cycle.
• 369.5 acres of farmland irrigated by recycled FDE.
• Zero incidents of environmental non-compliance were recorded in FY2024.
LOOKING AHEAD
• We aim to implement regenerative agriculture practices across all our farms over the next three years.
• We aspire to increase the volume of FDE recycled and removed from waste discharge by a minimum of 8% per
annum, and increase the amount of solid waste recycled and removed from waste discharge by 10% per annum.
• We will leverage on our new biogas plant, which commenced operations in April 2024, to enhance our efforts
to convert waste into resources.
OUR PERFORMANCE
All waste related data pertains to our five farms located in Malaysia and is determined by the estimated average
waste produced by each cow, which includes manure and urine washdown water. Separators have been installed
at each farm, and the waste collected is measured and subsequently utilised to produce organic fertiliser. All the
waste we produce is recyclable and we produce zero hazardous waste in the course of our business operations.
Solid Waste (to
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 FY2022 FY2023
86,400
88,300
FDE (million ℓ)
334.0
336.7
418.56
Solid Waste (tonnes)
022 FY2023 FY2024 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
86,400
88,300
146,730
FDE (million ℓ)
336.7
418.56
WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 143
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Responsible water management benefits both our business
and local communities. Extracting and discharging water
responsibly protects the health of our soil and maintains
the overall quality of our products, resulting in more robust
crop yields, improved product reliability and enhanced
market competitiveness. Simultaneously, these practices
safeguard local water resources from depletion and
contamination, protecting local livelihoods, fostering
stronger community relations and safeguarding our
reputation.
RESPONSIBLE WATER STEWARDSHIP
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Advancing Water Sustainability
As an agrifood business, our farm operations heavily rely
on water to manage the health of our herds and grassland,
as well as for production, cleaning and other general
purposes. While we do not currently possess operations
location in water-stressed or water-scarce regions, we
remain deeply committed to sustainable water management,
encompassing efforts to recycle rainwater, mitigate water
contamination and reduce our reliance on surface and
municipal water sources.
To implement our holistic and proactive approach, we have
made strategic investments into new technologies for
collecting and utilising rainwater and groundwater, while
also growing our circular agricultural practices that minimise
impacts related to our water discharge. Through these
collective practices, we successfully reduced our utilisation
of municipal water by 618.51 million ℓ in FY2024 in our
Malaysia farms.
Harnessing Groundwater and Rainwater
Groundwater, available year-round and less susceptible to
droughts, serves as a reliable water source and reduces
our dependence on municipal water during periods of
scarcity. To minimise the impact of our withdrawal needs
from surface water, we have implemented tube well
pumping systems that extract groundwater from the lower
levels of the water table, which is vital for preserving soil
health and protecting natural resources for neighbouring
farms and communities.
Concurrently, our rainwater harvesting systems also play a
significant role in our water conservation efforts, enabling
the capture and storage of rainwater for various farm-
based tasks. From barn washing and irrigation to herd
cleaning and machinery maintenance, rainwater provides a
sustainable alternative to municipal sources and reduces
our extraction from the natural water table.
Mitigating Water Contamination
Untreated animal waste poses substantial threats to both
water quality and ecosystem integrity, while also bearing
the potential of contaminating our dairy production
processes. To address this challenge, we adopt regenerative
agriculture practices to treat and repurpose solid and
liquid animal waste into valuable resources for reuse,
effectively distancing animal waste from water sources and
significantly diminishing the risk of cross-contamination.
Our responsible practices during FY2024 prevented
146,730 tonnes of solid waste and 418 million ℓ of liquid
waste from potentially entering the water table and local
waterways. For more information, refer to the “Circular
Practices” section of this statement.
Farm Fresh Berhad
144
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Healthier Planet
W
WHY IT MATTERS
With agrifood systems contributing significantly to GHG
emissions, it is crucial for us to minimise our carbon
footprint and effectively manage all emissions from our
operations. By implementing robust energy and emission
management strategies, we help mitigate the impacts of
climate change, enhance the resilience of our supply chain
and set an exemplary standard for environmental
stewardship in the Malaysian and regional dairy farming
communities. Our efforts in this area will simultaneously
strengthen our reputation for sustainability among
consumers and other key stakeholders, bolstering our
prospects for long-term growth.
ENERGY & EMISSIONS
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Harnessing Solar Power and Biogas
Our corporate strategy for incorporating renewable energy
into our operations focuses on the two approaches
considered most viable at present: solar power and biogas
production. Through a phased integration, we are actively
reducing our dependence on the Malaysian national power
grid while concurrently expanding our contribution to the
broader renewable energy ecosystem.
To date, we have successfully introduced photovoltaic (PV)
technology at three locations – Muadzam Shah, Larkin and
Taiping – harnessing the substantial potential of solar
power in tropical climates.
In FY2024, our tube well pumping and rainwater harvesting efforts collectively saved 618.51 million ℓ of municipal
water, resulting in a 4% reduction in municipal water usage.
LOOKING AHEAD
After evaluating our current performance and progress, and considering the potential impacts of our ongoing
water conservation initiatives, we have revised our water performance targets as follows:
• We aim to broaden our utilisation of rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping systems, striving to increase
our utilisation of groundwater and surface water by 20% per annum
• Through these efforts, we aim to increase municipal water savings by 10% per annum.
FY2022
Total Water Consumption*
2,883.8
428.8
2,909.4
500.5
2,858.22
618.51
FY2023 FY2024 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Groundwater and surface water**
WATER WITHDRAWN BY SOURCE
(mega ℓ)
* Includes the consumption of water at our Malaysian and Australian farms from groundwater, surface water and municipal
** Includes tube well pumping, rainwater and water from rivers
OUR PERFORMANCE
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 145
Meanwhile, we have further added to the regenerative
agricultural practices at Muadzam Shah by establishing a
new on-site biogas plant that will enable us to utilise our
herd’s manure to generate renewable energy. Following the
completion of construction and testing activities during
FY2024, the plant commenced operations in April 2024 and
is expected to contribute towards reducing our emissions
by 9,800 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
eq) per
annum and reducing our diesel usage by 670,000 ℓ per
annum. Looking ahead, we will explore the feasibility of
implementing similar biogas projects at our other farms if
the anticipated results are achieved at Muadzam Shah.
Mitigating Nitrous Oxide Emissions
Our primary focus in reducing nitrous oxide emissions is to
minimise our reliance on traditional chemical fertilisers that
release this potent GHG into the atmosphere. By using
treated animal waste for pasture fertilisation, a key aspect
of our regenerative agriculture practices, we significantly
reduce chemical fertiliser usage while being able to adopt
vermicomposting techniques to provide superior feed for
our cows.
Besides that, our efforts to treat and repurpose animal
waste also contribute to a decrease in the potential release
of nitrous oxide from untreated waste, thereby further
mitigating noxious emissions from our farms.
Assessing and Monitoring our GHG Emissions
To accurately assess and monitor our emissions
performance, we engage an independent third party to
conduct a Group-wide carbon footprint inventory. Unlike
previous assessments done for each calendar year, our
latest evaluation was performed by Eco-Ideal Consulting
Sdn Bhd for the financial year from April 2023 to March
2024 (FY2024). This approach will allow for better alignment
of our emissions performance with each financial period of
the Group moving forward.
Conducted in June 2024, Eco-Ideal Consulting used the
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard
to assess emissions across our farms and processing
facilities in Malaysia and Australia, including the corporate
stores and manufacturing plants of our newly acquired
companies, Inside Scoop and Sin Wah. The exercise covered
all three of the following emission scopes:
• Scope 1 GHG emissions: Direct emissions from
machinery, equipment and motor vehicles at our farms
and processing facilities, as well as emissions from
enteric fermentation, manure management and soil
management at our farms.
• Scope 2 GHG emissions: Emissions from the electricity
used to power machinery and equipment at our farms
and processing facilities.
• Scope 3 GHG emissions: Indirect emissions not
covered in Scope 2, such as those from business travel
by car, train, flight as well as emissions from employee
commuting.
The FY2024 emissions assessment indicated that the
emissions intensity of our farms in Malaysia and Australia
remain well below the average emissions levels for dairy
farms in Asia and Oceania, demonstrating the effectiveness
of our responsible farming and energy conservation
practices.
We will continue to utilise the carbon emissions data
gathered from these GHG inventory exercises to closely
analyse our performance and develop emissions reduction
strategies in line with our commitment to reducing our
Group-wide carbon footprint.
OUR PERFORMANCE
The scope of our carbon emissions monitoring encompasses our dairy farms and manufacturing plants in Malaysia
and Australia as well as the operations of our newly acquired companies, Inside Scoop and Sin Wah. Our comprehensive
approach covers all three scopes of GHG monitoring, including indirect emissions from employee commuting and
business travel.
Since our last assessment, our Group-wide total emissions have risen by 30%, from 68,892 tCO
2
eq in CY2022 to
89,856 tCO
2
eq in FY2024. This increase is largely due to the inclusion of operational assets from our new acquisitions,
specifically the corporate stores of Inside Scoop and Sin Wah’s factory. The uptick in emissions also reflects higher
production activities, which led to increased fertiliser use at our farms and higher electricity and fuel consumption at
our Muadzam Shah manufacturing plant. To offset these emissions, we are implementing carbon reduction initiatives
such as increasing solar power usage and operationalising our biogas plant.
Meanwhile, our Group wide emissions intensity has increased from 0.44 tCO
2
eq/tonne of milk in FY2023 to 0.48
tCO
2
eq/tonne of milk in FY2024. Excluding new businessess (Inside Scoop, Sin Wah and Jom Cha), the emission
intensity remains at 0.44 tCO
2
eq/tonne of milk.
Farm Fresh Berhad
146
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Healthier Planet
Energy Data Emissions Performance (tCO
2
eq)
Emissions Breakdown by Scope (%)
Emissions Breakdown by Operations (%)
Emissions Breakdown by Country of Operation (%)
Emissions Intensity by Country (kg of CO
2
eq/kg FPCM*)
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED
(MJ)
328,818,757 MJ
CY2020
47,339
CY2022
68,892
FY2024
89,856
FY2024 Scope 2
Scope 1
Scope 3
CY2020
23%
76% 76%
1% 2% 3%
22% 29%
68%
CY2022
Manufacturing
Plants
Farms
Corporate
stores
CY2020
67%
33%
CY2022
63%
37%
FY2024
58%
37%
5%
CY2020
74%
26%
CY2022
79%
21% 19%
81%
FY2024
81%
19%
Australia
Malaysia
2.7kg
0.9kg
2.4kg 2.7kg 2.4kg
0.8kg
0.7 kg 0.9kg
2.9kg
Australia
Malaysia
CY2020 CY2022 FY2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 147
Reducing our Emissions through Manure Composting
The following table showcases the substantial reduction we have recorded in untreated manure discharged into the
environment, along with the resulting decrease in GHG emissions, following our transition from daily spreading to
cow manure composting.
Description Daily Spread Compost
Percentage
Decrease
Amount of manure discharged (kg N) 75,488 35,105 -115%
GHG emissions (tCO
2
eq/year) 498 237 -110%
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Addressing the environmental concerns of our packaging
is crucial due to the large quantities of packaged goods
we produce yearly. Switching to sustainable packaging
helps minimise our landfill waste, conserve raw materials
and reduce GHG emissions. By embracing sustainable
packaging, we not only improve our environmental
footprint but also enhance our reputation as an eco-
conscious company, attracting modern consumers who
increasingly prefer sustainable fast-moving consumer
goods (FMCG) brands, with packaging playing a key role
in their choices.
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Ensuring Responsible Sourcing for Products and
Suppliers
Since 2018, we have upheld a commitment to sourcing all
our packaging materials from sustainably managed forests,
as part of our efforts to lessen our impact on natural
resources and bolster their conservation efforts. This
pledge is exemplified through our adoption of Tetra Pak
paper packaging for our UHT products.
2 Based on a comparison drawn from a report issued by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Global Dairy
Platform Inc. in 2019
LOOKING AHEAD
We have developed the following strategies for enhancing
our future performance based on the insights gained
from our carbon footprint inventory exercise:
• Implementing anaerobic digestion tanks to replace
existing anaerobic lagoons at our Muadzam Shah
farm, allowing us to convert farm-sourced manure
into biofuel.
• Installing solar thermal systems to decrease diesel
usage in our boiler and generator units.
• Introducing biogas and solar energy generation
systems across our other farms and processing
facilities.
Our Malaysian farms currently have an
emissions intensity of 2.4 kg CO
2
eq/kg
FPCM*.(27% lower than the 2015 average
of dairy farms in Asia)
Our Australian farms currently have an
emissions intensity of 0.8 kg CO
2
eq/kg
FPCM. (40% lower than the average of dairy
farms in Oceania)
While we acknowledge the rise in our emissions intensity
since our last assessment, we recognise that our FY2024
performance was impacted by the operations of our new
acquisitions and a significant increase in production
activities. Nevertheless, our commitment to managing our
carbon footprint amid business growth is evident through
our strategies to offset emissions, including via the
adoption of renewable energy sources such as solar
energy and biofuel. Supported by these and other
initiatives, we remain dedicated to achieving a 5%
reduction in our Group-wide emissions intensity annually.
Farm Fresh Berhad
148
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Healthier Planet
Comparing our Emissions with Dairy Farms in Asia and Oceania
This unique packaging, comprising 75% paper, 20% plastic
and 5% aluminium, is fully recyclable and proudly bears the
FSC® Forest Management certification from the Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC), affirming its responsibly sourced
materials. By choosing Tetra Pak, we actively support
sustainable forest ecosystem management, while
contributing towards the protection of indigenous rights,
community welfare and environmental preservation.
In striving to make a positive impact beyond our own
operations, we endeavour to ensure our packaging supply
chain upholds similar standards of responsibility. To this
end, we will consider expanding our oversight of
sustainability practices amongst our suppliers to include
evaluation of their use of sustainable packaging in future.
Spearheading Milk on Tap with Reusable Glass Bottles
We remain committed to reducing the environmental
footprint of our products after use. Since September 2022,
we made history with our Milk on Tap initiative, introducing
fresh milk sold in reusable glass bottles. A collaboration
with Jaya Grocer, this innovative and eco-friendly approach
aims to reduce the environmental impact of single-use
plastics and landfill waste.
With 11 Milk on Tap locations having been established
across Peninsular Malaysia, the success of this initiative is
demonstrated by its growing popularity among our
consumers. Since its launch in September 2022, Milk on
Tap has prevented the use of 375,500 plastic bottles,
eliminating over 18,700 kg of plastic packaging.
Promoting Recycling Habits
Recognising the importance of ensuring our recyclable
packaging is actually recycled, we actively engage in
promoting recycling practices among Malaysians, especially
the younger generation, to raise awareness on the
importance of recycling and encourage proper disposal of
our packaging materials.
Since 2022, we partnered with Tetra Pak to establish a
recycling education centre at our UPM farm. The centre
focuses on educating consumers about the recyclability of
our packaging and fosters the adoption of simple, impactful
recycling habits in their daily lives, both at home and at
work. Through this initiative, we aim to empower people
with the knowledge and tools required to contribute to a
more sustainable future through proper recycling practices.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Sales of finished goods utilising fully recyclable and
FSC®-certified Tetra Pak packaging rose by 29% in
FY2024, increasing from RM209.9 million to RM271.4
million sales during the year.
LOOKING AHEAD
• Working with Tetra Pak, we will continue to increase
our use of fully recyclable packaging across our
product portfolio.
• We plan to extend our Milk on Tap initiative to
additional retail outlets and increase our public
education efforts aimed at reducing plastic usage
and promoting the adoption of reusable glass bottles.
• Our commitment also involves ongoing engagement
with youth through school-based campaigns to
emphasise the significance of recycling.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 149
STRONGER
COMMUNITIES
Farm Fresh Berhad
150
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Many suburban and rural areas in Malaysia face limited
economic opportunities and receive less support than
urban centres. Cognisant of this, we utilise our presence
in various such regions across the country to empower
socioeconomic progress in surrounding communities,
providing locals with sustainable jobs opportunities, skills
training and educational initiatives that promote
professional development and social mobility. Through
this commitment, we generate shared value that uplifts
these communities while simultaneously furthering our
business objectives.
LOCAL ECONOMY CONTRIBUTION
Related
UNSDG
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Investing in Local Hiring and Education
To ensure we bolster community bonds and achieve
workforce diversity that mirrors the regions we serve, our
“local first” policy prioritises recruiting from local
communities before resorting to talent procured from
urban markets. Driven by this focus, we currently have a
large proportion of local talent in our workforce, with 67%
of our workers in farms and processing facilities hailing
from rural areas in Malaysia, including 14 individuals from
indigenous Orang Asli communities.
We also prioritise local vendors for the procurement of
raw materials and other products and services required by
our operations, ensuring that we contribute positively to
the socioeconomic development of the regions surrounding
our farms. In FY2024, 68% of our total procurement outlay
by Farm Fresh Malaysia was spent on local suppliers.
Fostering Sustainable, Win-Win Farmer Partnerships
The network of rural partner farmers we established in
2011 has been crucial in allowing us to cost-effectively fulfil
our external dairy sourcing requirements and price our
products competitively. Equally importantly, our direct
dealings with these farmers ensure that they, too, receive
fair market prices for raw milk, which contributes to
uplifting their livelihoods and bolstering local agriculture,
key factors that support the Malaysian government’s
objective of achieving self-sufficiency in domestic fresh milk
production by 2025.
Beyond milk procurement, we have strengthened our
partnership with these partner farmers by offering
mentorship programmes and technical support to facilitate
knowledge transfer throughout the production process.
This disseminates sustainable farming practices across our
value chain, promoting environmental stewardship and
safeguarding the long-term viability of our business.
Empowering Rural Distribution and Entrepreneurship
Introduced in 2016, our innovative home dealer programme
revolutionises our distribution networks in rural Malaysia,
providing access to Farm Fresh and Yarra Farm products in
areas without major grocery stores or supermarkets. With
58 stockists, 762 home dealers and 971 agents nationwide,
this initiative extends our product reach while creating
sustainable income opportunities for micro-entrepreneurs.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 151
Through this first-of-its-kind programme, we empower independent entrepreneurs to earn commissions by distributing
our products within their communities, while simultaneously advocating the nutritional benefits of dairy products to their
network. To support them in their endeavours, we consistently invest in the professional development of our home
dealers, offering regular seminars and courses on products, prices, and sales and distribution strategies.
The dealers in our home network stand to earn income above and beyond average salaries in their region, with stockists
capable of earning up to RM25,000 monthly and home dealers up to RM5,000. Supporting our home dealer distribution
network, we have adopted the use of e-commerce platforms that facilitate online purchases and conveniently connect
customers with our home dealers and agents.
The success of our home dealer programme is evidenced by its influence on our financial performance, with direct sales
to stockists and distribution support from our network partners contributing 17% of our total revenue in FY2024. The
social benefits of this programme has also been recognised at the regional level, as it claimed the ASEAN Inclusive
Business Award in 2020.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• 67% of our workforce across farms and processing facilities originates from rural and underserved communities.
• 68% of our total procurement during FY2024 was spent on local suppliers.
• Within our home dealer programme, we have 58 stockists, 762 home dealers and 971 agents.
• RM2.7 million in income was generated for our partner farmers in FY2024.
LOOKING AHEAD
• In tandem with our product range expansion, we will improve our home dealer programme via roadshows and
other outreach efforts, offering this income-generating opportunity to more entrepreneurs across Malaysia.
• We are also crafting strategies to encourage greater female involvement in the home dealer network, empowering
more housewives to attain economic independence and financial freedom.
Farm Fresh Berhad
152
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
W
WHY IT MATTERS
As Malaysia’s leading homegrown dairy company, we
embrace our duty to create a positive and lasting impact
on the nation. By supporting the health of the younger
generation through the provision of nutritional dairy
products and investing in the education of underprivileged
students, we achieve the dual objectives of instilling better
dietary practices while enhancing career prospects. These
efforts contribute towards a healthier and more empowered
future generation, while growing our appeal to socially
conscious consumers and investors.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Providing Comprehensive Support for Underprivileged
Students
As part of our efforts to uplift hardcore poor students with
education, nutrition and living standards, we have launched
the Multidimensional Human Capital Development
Programme (Program Pembangunan Insan Multidimensi) in
June 2023, committing nearly RM2 million to set up and
run special community centres in areas with high numbers
of hardcore poor students.
In collaboration with the Malaysian Ministries of Education
and Health, and Yayasan Didik Negara, we have now
established ten (10) special community centres in Peninsular
Malaysia, providing more than 500 students with extra
classes, tuition, religious classes, motivational sessions and
nutritious meals, including Farm Fresh milk.
By pioneering this effort, we aim to pave the way for other
large corporations, multinationals and government-linked
companies to join this noble cause and make a meaningful
impact in underprivileged communities nationwide.
Internships and Scholarship Programme
Concurrently, we nurture local talent through development
programmes, such as internships in collaboration with
esteemed universities and colleges in Malaysia. This year  
we have provided internship placements to 192 high-
achieving students, facilitating the opportunity for many of
these participants to transition into full-time positions
within our company.
We also aim to remove barriers to higher education for
Orang Asli students, empowering them to pursue their
academic dreams through the Farm Fresh Scholarship
Programme. Launched in 2021 in partnership with the East
Coast Economic Region Development Council (ECERDC),
this programme provides life-changing opportunities for
disenfranchised students through the provision of financial
support for their primary, secondary and tertiary education.
To date, the Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme has
supported 20 Orang Asli students in the Rompin district of
Pahang, with RM36,250 invested thus far in their education.
We aim to encourage all of them to pursue university
studies, offering these students the opportunity to join our
workforce upon graduation.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 153
A Rompin-Born Boy Aspires to Be a Manager at Farm Fresh
Muhamad Atha’ullah NG Bin Muhamad Redzuan, a form 2 student at SMA Bukit Ibam and a Farm Fresh
scholarship recipient, dreams of joining Farm Fresh’s management team.
His journey began when his
teacher informed him about the
scholarship opportunity. “I applied
for it and when I received the
news that I was successful, it was
an extraordinary moment that
filled me with boundless joy and
excitement! It marked a pivotal
milestone in my life”, said the
14-year-old science student, who
received support to finance his
studies and buy school materials
such as books and stationaries.
Being a scholarship recipient has opened unique opportunities for Muhamad Atha’ullah, helping him realise the
value of pursuing academic excellence and what it means to pursue tertiary education. “I’m motivated more
than ever to do well in examinations as well as outside of the classroom”, said Muhamad Atha’ullah who actively
participates in co-curricular activities and has been nominated as a potential high achiever for his age.
Muhamad Atha’ullah’s story exemplifies the positive impact of scholarships, and he encourages his peers to
apply for such opportunities as well. “Don’t be afraid to try and apply for any scholarships. This opportunity
does not only lift the financial burden, but it provides the motivation factor to pursue higher academic
education,” he added.
With the scholarship supporting him financially, Muhamad Atha’ullah has set his sights on furthering his studies
overseas and returning to serve his country and Farm Fresh. We certainly wish him the best of luck and look
forward to welcoming him to the Farm Fresh family in future.
Name : Muhamad Atha’ullah NG
Bin Muhamad Redzuan
Age : 14 years old (Form 2)
Address : Kedaik, Rompin Pahang
School : Sekolah Menegah Agama
Bukit Ibam
Favourite subject : Science
Ambition : Manager at Farm Fresh
Farm Fresh Berhad
154
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
Promoting Healthy Development with the
School Milk Programme
Recognising the crucial role that nutrition plays in
a child’s developmental years, we are committed
to nurturing healthier milk consumption habits
amongst the younger generation, whom we refer
to as ‘Generasi Farm Fresh’. To this end, we have
collaborated with the Malaysian Ministry of
Education to commence a School Milk Programme
(Program Susu Sekolah) that facilitates the delivery
of nutritious milk to school canteens across the
Northern, Eastern and Southern regions of
Peninsular Malaysia.
Through our participation in this programme, we
have successfully distributed over 65 million packs
of school milk to more than 3,400 schools from
April 2023 to March 2024. The success of our
efforts underscores the positive impact of our
initiative and reaffirms our dedication to supporting
the health and development of young learners.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• In FY2024, we invested RM768,564 in community programmes,
which included direct donations to students and teachers,
gifts and sponsorships for educational and sporting initiatives,
purchases of equipment and assets for our CSR teams, and
expenses for organising community-related events.
• Our collective community outreach efforts in FY2024 impacted
4,500 beneficiaries, including students, teachers and parents
that benefited from our scholarship, internship and
Multidimensional Human Capital Development Programme,
participants who benefited from our sponsorship of school
and community sporting events, attendees of the various
community events we contributed to during the year, and
other individuals who benefited from our outreach initiatives.
• 192 students from local universities and colleges have
benefited from our internship programmes.
• Distributed over 65 million packs of school milk in FY2024.
• Inaugurated 10 special community centres to support
hardcore poor students.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 155
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Ensuring strong employee health and safety measures is
crucial as it provides a secure work environment where
our staff can perform their duties without risking their
health or safety. This is particularly important given that
many of our employees work on farms and in processing
facilities, where they face occupational hazards such as
heavy machinery, livestock handling in high heat and
humidity, and construction or repair tasks. Our dedicated
efforts in this area help reduce workplace accidents and
injuries, lower absenteeism and minimise potential medical
costs, while also fostering a work environment that
promotes job satisfaction, productivity and loyalty.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Robust Policy Commitments
At the heart of our employee health, safety and welfare
strategy lies the implementation of robust occupational
health and safety systems across our farms and processing
facilities. In our efforts to comprehensively address the
unique challenges faced by our employees in their farm-
based working environments, we have developed a Safety
– Best Management Practices and a Safety & Health Policy
and Environmental Policy that strictly adhere to the
following Malaysian regulations and laws:
• Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994
• Occupational Safety and Health (Use and Standard of
Exposure Chemical Hazardous to Health) Regulation
2000
• Occupational Safety and Health (Notification of Accident,
Dangerous Occurrence, Occupational Poisoning and
Occupational Disease) Regulation 2004
• Environmental Quality Act 1974
• Environmental Quality (Scheduled waste) regulation
2005
• Fire Services Act 1988
A Dedicated Committee and Leadership Oversight
As part of our proactive strategy to identify and respond to
emerging risks, we have established a Safety, Health and
Environment Committee to heighten engagement with our
people and foster inclusive dialogue on health and safety
matters.
Consisting of an ideal mix of employer and employee
representation, the committee’s primary responsibilities
encompass, but are not confined to:
• Conducting regular workplace inspections, including
specific assessments of machinery, equipment,
substances, appliances and work processes.
• Investigating workplace accidents, near misses,
dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning and
occupational diseases, and subsequently reporting.
significant findings and recommending corrective
actions to the management
• Supporting the development of internal safety and
health rules, and safe work systems.
• Assessing the effectiveness of existing safety and health
policies, and proposing revisions as necessary.
Through our Safety, Health and Environment Committee,
we facilitate open and direct communication with
employees, enabling concerns to be promptly addressed
so that a conducive and secure working environment is
maintained at all times.
All health and safety issues are monitored by our HR
department and Safety team, which benchmarks our
performance against industry peers to strive for the
highest health and safety standards. Meanwhile, leadership
oversight is provided by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee of our Board, which thoroughly reviews internal
audit reports and management recommendations to
enhance the health, safety, and well-being of our employees.
This structure ensures that all material health and safety
matters are brought to the attention of relevant leaders,
and that continuous improvement in our practices is driven
from the highest levels.
Farm Fresh Berhad
156
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
Upholding HIRARC and Training Protocols
Our Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control
(HIRARC) procedures are fundamental for managing
potentially hazardous activities within our operations.
Dedicated safety staff oversee their implementation to
ensure personnel safety alongside regular factory safety
audits, maintaining consistently safe working environments.
These procedures include stringent protocols for machinery
operation and maintenance which are uniformly enforced
across all our farms and production facilities. Additionally,
we implement proactive measures to identify and address
emerging hazards, such as:
• Conducting regular safety audits of processing facilities.
• Monitoring, measuring and controlling our exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
• Administering annual audiometric tests to employees in
our processing facilities to evaluate noise exposure and
its impact on their hearing.
• Establishing Internal Emergency Response Teams (ERT)
responsible for evacuating employees and handling
fires during emergencies.
Besides that, employee training is prioritised across all
levels and job functions, with tailored programmes covering
occupational first aid, confined space training, forklift and
reach truck handling. Personal protective equipment (PPE)
is also provided as needed to enhance safety.
To ensure new employees are well-informed about safety
measures and protocols, a comprehensive safety awareness
component has been integrated into our orientation
programme.
Uplifting Rural Communities through Sustainable
and Healthy Living
Another key practice to safeguard employee well-being is
our provision of housing and resources for farm-based
staff. Currently, 80% of our farm employees receive
subsidised meals, while 50% enjoy complimentary
accommodation. Additionally, these employees are provided
with fresh vegetables and fish sourced directly from our
farms, ensuring nutritious and sustainable dietary options
for their daily meals.
These initiatives not only support our employees financially
and enhance their job satisfaction, but also align with our
commitment to fostering economic progress in rural
communities. For more information, refer to the “Local
Economy Contribution” section of this statement.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• Zero work-related fatalities were recorded in the last
three years.
• Zero Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) were recorded in the
last three years.
• 121 employees received health and safety training in
FY2024, with an average of 112 hours of training
provided to each employee.
• 100% of our employees are covered by our safety
best management practices and Safety & Health
Policy and Environmental Policy implemented
throughout the organisation.
• 80% of our farm employees enjoy subsidised meals,
while 50% benefit from free accommodation.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 157
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Fair and ethical employment is fundamental to our
commitment as a sustainable and honest dairy company,
enshrined as one of our five core values. Our conscientious
approach to training and nurturing our workforce, while
providing them with an impartial and respectful work
environment, ensures we retain a high-performing,
committed and diverse team. By maintaining this standard,
we uphold the quality and reliability of our products and
services, enhancing our competitiveness in the markets we
operate in and supporting our growth objectives.
FAIR & ETHICAL EMPLOYMENT
O OUR APPROACH
Guided by Internal Policies and Jurisdictional Laws
To ensure responsible business conduct across our
operations, we have developed a Code of Conduct &
Business Ethics (CCBE) that aligns with the laws, regulations
and best practices of Malaysia’s dairy industry. This code
upholds the principles of discipline, good faith,
professionalism and integrity essential to our company’s
success and well-being.
In fully supporting the principles and international guidelines
for human rights, we are dedicated to maintaining a safe
work environment enriched by diversity and characterised
by open communication, trust, shared accountability, fair
treatment and respect. We treat each and every of our
staff, suppliers, stakeholders and the community with the
utmost respect in alignment with our core values.
Our commitment to fair recruitment and procurement
practices firmly opposes discrimination of potential hiring
candidates or suppliers based on their race or gender,
emphasising a merit-based process that prioritises equal
opportunities.
Alongside our internal policies and guidelines, we adhere
to the Malaysian Employment Act 1955, ensuring
compliance with workers’ rights, fair working hours and
adequate living wages. We consistently benchmark our pay
structure against industry standards and consult with
external professionals to ensure we maintain remuneration
practices that uphold compliance with labour laws and
enable us to attract the requisite talents.
Additionally, our Whistle Blowing Policy (read more in the
‘Anti-Corruption’ section of this report) enables employees
and the public to confidentially report any incidents of
misconduct through internal channels.
Although we have recorded no significant non-compliance
incidents related to labour standards, we have established
processes to manage such situations should they occur.
These processes include counselling and consulting
external experts to mediate and resolve incidents in
accordance with the relevant labour standards.
Fostering a Diverse and Respectful Workplace
We recognise the importance of workplace diversity, which
brings a wealth of experiences, expertise and perspectives
to our organisation. This diversity enables informed
decision-making and fosters a culture of unity and
appreciation for different backgrounds.
To promote diversity, we aim for a balanced workforce,
with a healthy mix of genders, particularly in management
and executive roles. Our workforce also reflects Malaysia’s
cultural diversity, comprising various races. Employees are
free to practice their cultural and religious beliefs, and we
celebrate our diversity during festive seasons.
Our employees deserve a respectful work environment
free from harassment or discrimination. Any form of
abusive conduct, whether verbal, physical or virtual, is
unacceptable. We strictly prohibit actions or unwanted
comments related to gender, race, national or ethnic
origin, disability, religion, age, family status or other legally
protected statuses. Employees are encouraged to report
any abusive, harassing or offensive behaviour they observe
or experience to a supervisor or member of management.
Farm Fresh Berhad
158
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
Training and Assessment
To be a high-performing organisation that is equipped to achieve its ambitions, we place emphasis on ensuring our
workforce is provided with adequate training to undertake their job functions safely and effectively (read more in the
“Employee Health, Safety and Well-being” section of this statement) while also receiving additional training to upskill their
personal and professional competencies.
Regular assessments are undertaken for all employees by their direct supervisor, maintaining open lines of engagement
and enabling the identification of areas for improvement, alongside action plans to enhance performance. These
assessments also provide us with an opportunity to identify training topics that may be required by various employee
groups.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 159
101 231 934
4 0 2
Permanent Contract Permanent Contract Permanent Contract
Employee Breakdown by Employment Type
Management Executive Non-Executive
Permanent Contract
Management Executive Non-Executive
96%
4%
100%
99%
1%
Permanent Contract
Management Executive Non-Executive
96%
4%
100%
99%
1%
Permanent Contract
Management Executive Non-Executive
96%
4%
100%
99%
1%
OUR PERFORMANCE
We are pleased to report that no human rights violations have been recorded in the past three years. The following
represents our employee data for FY2024.
Employee Breakdown by Gender
Management Executive Non-Executive
64 108 763
41 123 173
Male Female
Management
Executive Non-Executive
61%
39%
47%
81%
53% 19%
Male Female
Management
Executive Non-Executive
61%
39%
47%
81%
53% 19%
Male Female
Management
Executive Non-Executive
61%
39%
47%
81%
53% 19%
Farm Fresh Berhad
160
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
<30 30-50 >50
Management Executive Non-Executive
76%
9% 15%
65%
34%
1%
56%
40%
3%
<30 30-50 >50
Management Executive Non-Executive
76%
9% 15%
65%
34%
1%
56%
40%
3%
<30
16
80
9
30-50 >50
Management
151
78
3
<30 30-50 >50
Executive
527
378
30
<30 30-50 >50
Non- Executive
Employee Breakdown by Age Group
Management
Total Employee Breakdown by Age Group
Executive Non-Executive
<30
694
536
42
30-50 >50
<30 30-50 >50
Total
55%
42%
3%
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 161
New Employee Hires in FY2024
New Hires and Turnover
Management Executive Non-Executive
8 28 306
6 15 60
<30 years
30-50
years
>50 years
Male Female
226 110 6
4
15
60
Employee Breakdown by Ethicity
Management Executive Non-Executive
Malay Chinese Indian Others
Management Executive Non-Executive
51%
5%
4%
40% 64%
25%
4%
8%
60%
1%
2%
37%
Malay Chinese Indian Others
Management Executive Non-Executive
51%
5%
4%
40% 64%
25%
4%
8%
60%
1%
2%
37%
Malay Chinese Indian Others
Management Executive Non-Executive
51%
5%
4%
40% 64%
25%
4%
8%
6
1%
2%
37%
Malay Chinese Indian Others
Management Executive Non-Executive
51%
5%
4%
40% 64%
25%
4%
8%
60%
1%
2%
37%
Malay Chinese Indian others
148
57
9
18
Malay Chinese Indian others
562
11
15
347
Malay
42
54
5
4
Chinese Indian others Malay Chinese Indian others
148
57
9
18
Malay Chinese Indian others
562
11
15
347
Malay
42
54
5
4
Chinese Indian others Malay Chinese Indian others
148
57
9
18
Malay Chinese Indian others
562
11
15
347
Malay
42
54
5
4
Chinese Indian others
Farm Fresh Berhad
162
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stronger Communities
New Hires and Turnover
Employee Turnover in FY2024
172
87 6
4
25
41
<30 years
30-50
years
>50 years
Male Female
Management Executive Non-Executive
6 14 245
6 19 45
Average Hours of Training by Employee Category and Gender in FY2024
Employee Training
Management Executive Non-Executive
26.3 20.2 13.9
36.8 36.9 24.8
30.1 28.6 17.6
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 163
RESPONSIBLE
GOVERNANCE
Farm Fresh Berhad
164
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
W
WHY IT MATTERS
By prioritising transparency, integrity and fairness in our
operations, we ensure that our resources are invested in
productive ventures that generate shared value for all
stakeholders. Additionally, we reduce the risks of legal
penalties and reputational harm associated with illegal
and unethical practices, which bolsters our reputation as
a dependable, trustworthy business. Ultimately, this
commitment lays the groundwork for long-term
sustainability in our business operations, ensuring
operational stability and stakeholder trust as we drive
towards our ambitions.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Related
UNSDG
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Robust Governing Systems and Policies
We are stringently committed to conducting all business
honestly and ethically, while acting professionally, fairly and
with integrity in all our relationships and business dealings.
At the fundamental level, we ensure our practices maintain
full compliance with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission Act 2009, the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission (Amendment) Act 2018 and any subsequent
amendments or reenactments.
Our commitments are upheld and enforced uniformly
through various Group-wide codes and policies that are
informed to all employees and relevant stakeholders, while
also being made publicly available in the Investor Relations
section of our corporate website.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 165
The Board of Directors holds ultimate responsibility for overseeing all ethical conduct and anti-corruption matters. The
Group Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer leads monitoring efforts and is supported by the Group Human
Resources department, which manages these affairs on a daily basis.  
Farm Fresh Berhad has not made any donations to any associations with political parties or organisations during the
financial year.
An overview of each of our policies related to ethical business conduct and anti-corruption is detailed below.
Code of Conduct & Business Ethics (CCBE)
The Board, as outlined in the Board charter, has the critical responsibility of establishing and upholding the ethical
standards expected of everyone within the Group. This includes directors, management, employees and, where
applicable, counterparts and business partners.
To achieve this, the Board, in collaboration with management, has implemented and enforced a comprehensive
CCBE that details our principles, values and duties expected from our employees, alongside rules and guidelines
for workplace behaviour. The policy also puts forth our guidelines for fair market practices, including rules to ensure
our employees uphold competition and antitrust laws designed to ensure fair competition for products and services
in the marketplace.
Aligned with Malaysian laws, regulations and best practices of the local dairy industry, this comprehensive document
serves as a roadmap for navigating ethical conduct in the Group. The CCBE is further supplemented by distinct,
detailed policies that manage conflicts of interest, prevent abuse of power, corruption and insider trading, and
combat money laundering.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy
Our ABAC Policy outlines our zero-tolerance stance on bribery, corruption and gratification encountered by
directors, employees and third parties associated with the Group in business dealings. The policy provides strict
guidelines on accepting gifts and hospitality while prohibiting employees and third parties from offering or accepting
facilitation payments at any time.
Employees at all levels must declare that they have read and understood the ABAC Policy. They must also sign a
Conflict of Interest Declaration to avoid potential conflicts between company and private interests.
We have implemented an appropriate internal control system to address any corruption risks stemming from
weaknesses in our governance framework, processes and procedures. To this end, we conduct regular risk
assessment reviews to evaluate the performance, efficiency and effectiveness of these internal controls and
enforcement measures. These reviews are carried out either by an internal function or an external party every
three years, with additional reviews conducted as needed.
Employees found violating the ABAC policy will be subject to disciplinary action, as well as potential criminal
investigation and prosecution. The Group remains committed to ensuring full cooperation with the relevant
enforcement agencies in the event of any suspicions, allegations, or investigations related to bribery or corruption.
Farm Fresh Berhad
166
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Responsible Governance
Whistle Blowing Policy
Our Whistle Blowing Policy provides a channel for all employees and members of the public to report any
improper conduct related to our business, fostering a culture of transparency and accountability. Allegations of
suspected fraud, bribery, abuse of power, conflict of interest, theft or embezzlement can be reported through the
Speak Up portal at: https://farmfresh.speakup.report/farmfreshspeakup.
All reports are treated confidentially, and will be discussed and deliberated upon by the ARMC. Whistle-blowers
will be informed of the outcome upon the completion of the process and related procedures.
As per our Terms of Reference of ARMC, the ARMC oversees the whistle-blowing function, ensuring all reported
violations are properly investigated and reviewing the effectiveness of the actions taken in response to all concerns
raised.
Whistle-blowers will be granted protection for the confidentiality of their identity, as far as reasonably practicable,
and safeguarded from any form of retaliation for raising genuine concerns or reporting violations or suspected
violations in good faith.
Ethical Trading Policy
Our Ethical Trading Policy sets out the standards we expect throughout our supply chain, aligning with our
commitment to ensure our products are manufactured in conditions that are neither detrimental to the goods nor
harmful to the workers. All suppliers must comply with the Ethical Trading policy, which will be automatically
accepted unless advised otherwise.
The policy upholds several key principles, including freedom of employment, the right to collective bargaining,
freedom of association, safe and hygienic working conditions, the right to a living wage, and regular employment.
Additionally, it prohibits child labour, excessive working hours, discrimination and harsh or inhumane treatment.
Training and Awareness
To ensure continuous compliance with ethical practices, we
are committed to making sure our employees understand
our expectations in performing their duties and
responsibilities. Employees are briefed on our Code of
Conduct & Business Ethics (CCBE) and Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy during their orientation
program. We also regularly conduct awareness programs
for employees on anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
While we aim for comprehensive training for all employees,
we prioritise training based on the level of bribery and
corruption risk associated with each employee’s position or
department.
OUR PERFORMANCE
• In FY2024, 89.26% of all employees received anti-
corruption training. As of May 2024, our completion
rates rose to 94.38%
• 100% of our operations have been assessed for
corruption-related risks.
• Zero staff disciplined or dismissed due to ethical
non-compliance
• Zero fines, penalties or settlements received in
relation to corruption
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 167
W
WHY IT MATTERS
In today’s digital era, the importance of cybersecurity and
data privacy continues to grow. Safeguarding our systems
and databases from potential cyber threats and breaches
of privacy is vital to maintaining business stability. Our
ongoing efforts in this area also ensures compliance with
evolving data protection laws, reduces legal and reputational
risks, and builds trust among our stakeholders.
CYBER SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY
O OUR APPROACH
Ensuring a Holistic Approach to IT Governance
Our Information Technology (IT) Policy ensures the Group’s
IT resources efficiently support our primary business
functions, safeguard our and members’ electronic data,
and comply with relevant regulations in our areas of
operation. The IT Department enforces and updates this
policy, covering best practices in firewall protection, security
incident management, cloud computing adoption,
vulnerability assessment and disaster recovery.
Crucially, the policy mandates the creation of prudent and
acceptable practices for anti-virus management to prevent
infection of our computers, networks and technology
systems from malware and other malicious code. It also
aims to prevent damage to user applications, data, files
and hardware by educating individuals who use our system
resources on their responsibilities regarding anti-virus
protection.
To ensure that our employees, Board members and
related constituents use mobile devices safely and securely
to access our resources, they must accept the IT Policy by
signing the Group Declaration for Security Policy on Usage
of Company Mobile Devices before receiving a device and
access to our resources.
All our network firewalls provide packet filtering, application
proxy and stateful inspection to safeguard against Internet
Protocol (IP) spoofing and Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks,
ensuring a secure operating environment for our computer
and network resources. To sustain this protection and
mitigate risks to our network and information systems, our
firewalls undergo regular reviews. Additionally, firewall
rulesets and configurations are frequently backed up to
alternate storage.
Vulnerability Assessments and Incident Management
To keep our security systems current, all operating systems
and information resources must undergo regular
vulnerability assessments. Our IT department is tasked with
conducting periodic security risk evaluations to identify
vulnerabilities and implement appropriate corrective
measures, with employees expected to fully cooperate with
these assessments.
Effective security incident management is also crucial for
detecting threats, evaluating their severity, responding
properly and informing stakeholders of any breaches when
necessary. Our framework includes computer emergency
response plans, incident response testing, response and
recovery protocols, and data breach management.
The IT Department conducts simulated incidents at least
once a year to assess the effectiveness of our response.
The outcomes of these simulations are used to review and
update our response plans as necessary.
Safeguarding our Digital Assets
The Group employs Datto SaaS as a backup and recovery
solution, aiding in the restoration of data such as Microsoft
Exchange emails, files and OneDrive data. This is crucial in
the event of any incidents affecting our servers.
For ransomware protection, we rely on Bitdefender
Gravityzone Business Premium, a globally recognised
cybersecurity solution. Gravityzone offers advanced layered
machine-learning algorithms for ransomware detection and
sandboxing, ensuring ransomware protection at both the
personal computer (PC) and server levels.
All data transfers undergo scanning by Bitdefender for
added security. Moreover, we utilise Microsoft Defender for
Office 365 to detect malware and phishing attempts early,
primarily scanning emails as the primary attack medium,
with extended coverage to OneDrive, Teams and Microsoft
Office applications.
Farm Fresh Berhad
168
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Responsible Governance
OUR PERFORMANCE
In FY2024:
Zero substantiated complaints
concerning customer privacy
breaches and customer data losses
were received.
Zero instances of
cybersecurity or data
breaches were recorded.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 169
Statement of use
Farm Fresh Berhad has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 1 April
2023 to 31 March 2024 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI Standard Disclosure Reference
GRI 2: General
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organisational details Who We Are, pages 8-11
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability
reporting
About this Statement, page 124
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this Statement, page 124
2-4 Restatements of information About this Statement, page 124
2-5 External assurance About this Statement, page 124
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Our Core Business Segments, pages 16-17
2-7 Employees Fair & Ethical Employment, pages 158-163
2-8 Workers who are not employees Information unavailable. Steps are
being taken to include the information
in future reports.
2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance
body
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing
the management of impacts
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability
reporting
Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance
body
Chairman’s Overview on Corporate
Governance, pages 100-109
Directors’ Training, pages 104-106
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest
governance body
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, pages 100-109
2-19 Remuneration policies Remuneration, pages 106-107
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Remuneration, pages 106-107
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable. Steps are being taken to
include the information in future reports
Farm Fresh Berhad
170
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard Disclosure Reference
GRI 2: General
Disclosures 2021
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Sustainability Statement, pages 122-123
Our Core Sustainability Pillars, page 126
2-23 Policy commitments Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Sustainability Governance, pages 130-131
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Described within relevant topical disclosures
2-28 Membership associations About this Statement, page 124
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging our Stakeholders, page 127
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Anti-Corruption, pages 165-167
GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality Determination, page 128
3-2 List of material topics Our Sustainability Material Matters,
page 129
3-3 Management of material topics Our Sustainability Focus Areas, page 126
Our Sustainability Material Matters, page 129
Further described within topical disclosures
GRI 203: Indirect
Economic Impacts
2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Local Economy Contribution, pages 151-155
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Local Economy Contribution, pages 151-155
GRI 204:
Procurement
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Local Economy Contribution, page 152
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-Corruption, pages 165-167
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption
policies and procedures
Anti-Corruption, pages 165-167
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions
taken
Anti-Corruption, pages 165-167
GRI 301: Materials
2016
301-2 Recycled input materials used Sustainable Packaging, pages 148-149
GRI 302: Energy
2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy & Emissions, pages 145-148
GRI 303: Water
and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Responsible Water Stewardship, pages 144-145
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Responsible Water Stewardship, pages 144-145
303-3 Water withdrawal Responsible Water Stewardship, pages 144-145
GRI 305: Emissions
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy & Emissions, pages 145-148
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy & Emissions, pages 145-148
GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Energy & Emissions, page 145-148
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Energy & Emissions, page 145-148
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy & Emissions, page 145-148
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 171
GRI Standard Disclosure Reference
GRI 306: Waste
2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related
impacts
Circular Practices, pages 141-143
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Circular Practices, pages 141-143
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Circular Practices, pages 141-143
GRI 401:
Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Fair & Ethical Employment, page 163
GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and Safety
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management
system
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident
investigation
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-3 Occupational health services Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and
communication on occupational health and safety
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health
and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and
safety management system
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
403-9 Work-related injuries Employee Health, Safety & Well-being, pages
156-157
GRI 404: Training
and Education
2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Fair & Ethical Employment, page 163
GRI 405: Diversity
and Equal
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Corporate Governance Overview Statement,
page 101
GRI 413: Local
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development programs
Local Economy Contribution, page 155
GRI 416: Customer
Health and Safety
2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of
product and service categories
Food Safety and Quality, page 138
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health
and safety impacts of products and services
Food Safety and Quality, page 138
GRI 418: Customer
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses of customer data
Cyber Security & Data Privacy, page 169
Farm Fresh Berhad
172
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
GRI Content Index
FY2024
Workplace Environment: A Diverse and Inclusive Workplace
Employee Breakdown by Gender (Full-time Employees)
Male 935
Female 337
Total 1,272
Employee Breakdown by Age and Management Categories
Management - <30 16
Management - 30-50 80
Management - >50 9
Executive - <30 151
Executive - 30-50 78
Executive - >50 3
Non-Executive - <30 527
Non-Executive - 30-50 378
Non-Executive - >50 30
Employee Breakdown by Ethnicity and Management Categories
Management - Malay/Bumiputera 42
Management - Chinese 54
Management - Indian 5
Management - Other 4
Executive - Malay/Bumiputera 148
Executive - Chinese 57
Executive - Indian 9
Executive - Other 18
Non-Executive - Malay/Bumiputera 562
Non-Executive - Chinese 11
Non-Executive - Indian 15
Non-Executive - Other 347
Total Number of New Employee Hires
By Gender
Male 342
Female 81
The following table provides a summary of our FY2024 ESG performance data across all common sustainability
matters, as per the requirements and format prescribed by Bursa Malaysia.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 173
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE
Workplace Environment: A Diverse and Inclusive Workplace
By Age
<30 286
30-50 126
>50 11
Workplace Environment: A Diverse and Inclusive Workplace
Total Number of Employee Turnover
By Gender
Male 265
Female 70
By Age
<30 213
30-50 112
>50 10
Workplace Environment: A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Number of work-related fatalities Nil
Lost time incident rate Nil
Number of employees trained on health and safety standards 121
Learning and Development
Total Training Hours 5,784
Average Training Hours - By Gender
Male 34.2
Female 59.0
Average Training Hours - By Employee Category
Management 30.1
Executive 28.6
Non-Executive 17.6
Environmental Footprint: Emissions
GHG Emissions (tCO
2
eq)
Scope 1 61,513
Scope 2 25,829
Scope 3 2,514
Total 89,856
GHG Emissions Intensity 0.48
Farm Fresh Berhad
174
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Performance Data Table
Environmental Footprint: Energy
Energy Consumption
Total energy consumption (MJ) 328,818,757.00
Environmental Footprint: Water
Total Water Consumption (m3)
*Including both Municipal and ground water
2,858
Environmental Footprint: Waste
Solid Waste (tonnes) 146,730.00
Farm Dairy Effluent (million litre) 418.56
Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption
Percentage of employees who have received training on
anti-corruption by employee category
89%
Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related risks 100%
Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken Nil
Cyber Security and Customer Privacy
Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Nil
Community Investment
Total amount invested in the community where the target beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer RM768,564
Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in communities 4,500
Supply Chain Management
Proportion of spending on local suppliers 68%
Board Diversity
By Gender
Total Number
Male 5
Female 2
Percentage
Male 71%
Female 29%
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 175
Board Diversity
By Age
Total Number
46-50 1
51-55 0
56-60 2
61-65 2
66-70 1
71 and above 1
Board Diversity
Percentage
46-50 14%
51-55 0%
56-60 29%
61-65 29%
66-70 14%
71 and above 14%
Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption
By Ethnicity
Total Number
Malay/Bumiputera 3
Chinese 3
Indian 1
Others 0
Percentage
Malay/Bumiputera 43%
Chinese 43%
Indian 14%
Others 0%
By Nationality
Total Number
Malaysian 7
Non-Malaysian 0
Percentage
Malaysian 100%
Non-Malaysian 0%
Farm Fresh Berhad
176
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Performance Data Table
SIRIM QAS INTERNATIONAL SDN BHD
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
To Board of Directors, Stakeholders, and Interested Parties,
SIRIM QAS International Sdn. Bhd. was engaged by Farm Fresh Berhad (hereafter referred to as Farm Fresh) to perform an
independent verification and provide assurance of Farm Fresh Sustainability Report 2024. The main objective of the
verification process is to provide assurance to Farm Fresh and its stakeholders on the accuracy and reliability of the
information as presented in this statement. The verification by SIRIM QAS International applied to sustainable performance
information (subject matter) within the assurance scope which is included in Farm Fresh Sustainability Report 2024.
The management of Farm Fresh was responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. The objective and
impartiality of this statement is assured as no member of the verification team and no other employee of SIRIM QAS
International was involved in the preparation of any part of the Farm Fresh’s Sustainability Report, and the Annual Report
2024.
The assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance in accordance with the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information, and BURSA Sustainability Reporting Guide, irrespective of the organization’s ability to achieve its objectives,
targets or expectations on their subject matter and sustainability-related issues. The assurance process involves verification
of 12 material matters as presented in the Sustainability Report within topics as follows i.e., Better Dairy, Healthier Planet,
Stronger Communities, and Responsible Governance. Details are provided in Appendix 1.
The verification was carried out by SIRIM QAS International between June and July 2024, with the following methodologies:
• Reviewing and verifying the traceability, consistency and accuracy of information collected from various sources;
internal and external documentation which are made available during the conduct of assessment.
• Verification of data presented in the Sustainability Report includes a detailed check of the sampled data.
• Interviewing key personnel responsible for collating information and writing various parts of the report to
substantiate the veracity of the claims.
The verification process was subjected to the following limitations:
• The scope of work did not involve verification of other information reported in Farm Fresh Annual Report 2024.
• One of the corporate offices located at Larkin, Johor Bahru was visited as part of this assurance engagement. The
verification process did not include physical inspections of any of Farm Fresh’s farms, operations and assets. And,
• The verification team did not verify any contractor or third-party data.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 177
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Conclusion
SIRIM QAS International, a Conformity Assessment Body in Malaysia, is accredited to both ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and
ISO/IEC 17065:2012 covering all our operational activities. The appointed assessors performing the assurance engagement
were selected appropriately based on our internal qualifications, training and experience. The verification process is
reviewed by management to ensure that the approach and assurance are strictly followed and operated transparently.
During the verification process, issues were raised, and clarifications were sought from the management of Farm Fresh
relating to the accuracy of some of the information contained in the report. In response to the raised findings, the
Sustainability Report was subsequently reviewed and revised by Farm Fresh. It is confirmed that changes that have been
incorporated into the final version of the report have satisfactorily addressed all issues. Based on the scope of the
assessment process and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Farm Fresh
has not complied, in all material respects, with the referred assurance standard and guide. The following represents SIRIM
QAS International’s opinion:
• The level of data accuracy included in Farm Fresh Sustainability Report 2024 is fairly stated;
• The level of disclosure of the specific sustainability performance information presented in the report was found to be
properly prepared;
• The personnel responsible were able to demonstrate the origin(s) and interpretation of data contained in the report;
• The Sustainability Report offers a reasonable and balanced presentation of Farm Fresh’s sustainability
performance.
List of Assessors.
1) Ms. Aernida Abdul Kadir : Team Leader
2) Ms. Kamini Sooriamoorthy : Team Member
3) Ms. Suzalina Kamaralarifin : Team Member
4) Ms. Nur Ruzaini Ab. Razak : Team Member
5) Ms. Hazwani Yob : Team Member
Statement Prepared by: Statement Approved by:
AERNIDA BINTI ABDUL KADIR Ts. MD ADHA BIN RAHMAT
Team Leader
Management System Certification Department
SIRIM QAS International Sdn. Bhd.
Senior General Manager
Management System Certification Department
SIRIM QAS International Sdn. Bhd
Date: 15 July 2024 Date: 18 July 2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
178
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Independent Assurance Statement
Appendix 1
The material matters covered in this assessment is tabulated below:
CLASSIFICATION OF DATA
HIGH MEDIUM LOW UN
SUBSTANTIATED
Materiality Determination
Sustainability Governance
Better Dairy
Animal Health & Welfare
Food Safety & Quality
Healthier Planet
Circular Practices
Responsible Water Stewardship
Energy Emissions [narrative only]
└ Energy & Emissions – Our Performance PROVIDED BY INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY
Sustainable Packaging
Stronger Communities
Local Economy Contribution
Community Development
Employee Health, Safety & Well-being
Fair & Ethical Employment
Responsible Governance
Anti-Corruption
Cyber Security & Data Privacy
Note 1:
This Independent Assurance Statement has been issued based on the content verified prior to the approval date. SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd
shall not be responsible for any changes or additions made after the referred date (12 July 2024).
Note 2:
The assurance involves activity aims to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to express a conclusion designed to enhance the degree of
confidence of the intended users other than the responsible party, about the subject matter information. It comprises of activities carried out to
assess the quality and credibility of the qualitative and quantitative information reported by the organization. This assurance is different from
activities used to assess or validate the organization’s performance, such as compliance assessments or the issuing of certifications against
specific standards.
Note 3:
Definition of HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW and UNSUBSTANTIATED Classification of Data in this Appendix 1.
HIGH: The data and information reviewed has been confirmed with the direct owners. The source of the data origin was provided during the
conduct of the assessment.
MEDIUM: Data and information have been confirmed with the direct owners. However, the source of the data has been based on secondary data,
where the data origin is not accessible by the verifiers during the conduct of the assessment.
LOW: Data and information reviewed has been based on information endorsed by the data owners. Verifiers did not have access to the source of
the data origin. It has been identified as one of the limitations during the conduct of the assessment.
UNSUBSTANTIATED: The sources of data and information disclosed were not made available during the assessment review period due to reasons
like confidentiality, unattainable data source and unavailable data owner. It has been identified as one of the limitations during the conduct of the
assessment.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 179
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
182 Directors’ Report
188 Statement by Directors
188 Statutory Declaration
189 Independent Auditors’ Report
193 Statements of Financial Position
194 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income
195 Statement of Changes in Equity
198 Statements of Cash Flows
202 Notes to the Financial Statements
Farm Fresh Berhad
180
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 181
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are investment holding, rearing of dairy cows and the production, marketing, sale
of cow’s milk and plant-based related products. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the
financial statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
RESULTS
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 63,530 25,149
Non-controlling interests (249) –
63,281 25,149
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review except as
disclosed in the financial statements.
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2023, a final dividend of
1.00 sen per ordinary share totalling RM18,719,200 was declared on 28 July 2023 and paid on 10 October 2023.
The Directors recommended a final dividend of 1.20 sen per ordinary share totalling RM22.5 million in respect of the
year ended 31 March 2024 subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed final dividend, which will be accounted for in the statement of
changes in equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending 31 March 2025.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Mr. Loi Tuan Ee **
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin bin A Hassan Nizam
Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Ms. Loi Foon Kion
Mr. Effizal Faiz bin Zulkifly
** Mr. Loi Tuan Ee is also a Director of the Company’s subsidiaries.
Farm Fresh Berhad
182
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY (CONTINUED)
The name of the Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of
this report (not including those Directors listed above) are:
Mr. Loi Tuan Kin
Mr. Azmi bin Zainal
Mr. Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan
Ms. Jamaliah binti Othman
Mr. Adam Graeme Pretty
Mr. Edmund Tan Jun Hua#
Mr. Lee Chee Keong@
Mr. Andrew Tong Wai Kit (appointed on 14 February 2024)
Mr. Joseph Chua Yi Xin (appointed on 14 February 2024)
#  Mr. Edmund Tan Jun Hua is existing director of a newly acquired subsidiary, The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd.
@ Mr. Lee Chee Keong is existing director of a newly acquired subsidiary, Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The interests and deemed interests in the shares and options over shares of the Company and of its related corporations
(other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end (including the interests of the
spouses or children of the Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) as recorded in the Register of
Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2023 Bought Sold 31.3.2024
Shareholdings in the Company which Directors have
direct interests:
Mr. Loi Tuan Ee – 6,815,400 – 6,815,400
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin bin
Datuk Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas 500,000 – – 500,000
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin bin A Hassan Nizam 500,000 – – 500,000
Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 500,000 – – 500,000
Ms. Loi Foon Kion – 2,672,600 -- 2,672,600
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2023
Dividend
-in-specie Sold 31.3.2024
Shareholdings in the Company which the Directors have
deemed interests:
Mr. Loi Tuan Ee 828,528,636 (10,545,310) (1,130,800) 816,852,526
Ms. Loi Foon Kion 571,011,515 – – 571,011,515
By virtue of their interests of more than 20% in the shares of the Company, Mr. Loi Tuan Ee and Ms. Loi Foon Kion are
deemed to have interests in the ordinary shares of all subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that the
Company has an interest.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 183
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES (CONTINUED)
Details of their deemed interests in non-wholly owned subsidiaries are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2023 Bought/Transfer 31.3.2024
Held through Farm Fresh Berhad:
The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. – 567,510 567,510
Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd. – 175,000 175,000
Farm Fresh Milk Incorporated 114,632 – 114,632
The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd 11,503,524 – 11,503,524
Held through The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd:
Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd 80 – 80
Henry Jones Foods Pty Ltd 80 – 80
Held through Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd:
St David Dairy Pty Ltd 72 – 72
None of the other Directors holding office at 31 March 2024 had any interest in the shares of the Company and of its
related corporations during the financial year.
None of the Directors holding office at 31 March 2024 have any entitlement under the Employees’ Share Option Scheme
(“ESOS”) of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive
any benefit (other than those shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with
the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest other than disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements.
The Directors’ benefits paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2024 are as follows:
From the
Company
RM’000
From a
subsidiary
RM’000
Directors of the Company:
Fees 614 –
Remuneration – 377
614 377
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling Directors of
the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other
body corporate.
Farm Fresh Berhad
184
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
ISSUE OF SHARES
During the financial year, the Company issued:
a) 522,800 new ordinary shares totalling RM705,780 arising from the exercise of the employees’ share options at an
exercise price of RM1.35 per ordinary share.
b) 13,158,000 new ordinary shares totalling RM17,631,720 measured at fair value as of acquisition date of RM1.34 per
share as part of the purchase consideration for the 65% equity stake in The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd as disclosed in
Note 34.1.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares
of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up any unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart
from the issue of options pursuant to the ESOS.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 21 March 2022, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment
of ESOS of not more than 15% of the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company to eligible Directors and
employees of the Group.
The salient features of the ESOS are as follows:
a) The ESOS is administered by a committee appointed by the Board of Directors.
b) The aggregate number of options exercised and options offered and to be offered under the ESOS shall not exceed
fifteen per centum (15%) of the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company at any point of time
during the duration of the ESOS and shall not be more than ten per centum (10%) of the ordinary shares available
under the ESOS shall be allocated to any eligible employee who, either singly or collectively through his or her
associates, holds twenty per centum (20%) or more of the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company.
c) The eligible employee must be at least eighteen (18) years of age, is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to
any bankruptcy proceedings, must have been confirmed in service, and has not given any notice of resignation or
received a notice of termination or has otherwise ceased or had his/her employment terminated.
d) The subscription price for each ordinary share shall be the weighted average market price of the shares of the
Company as shown in the Daily Official List issued by Bursa Securities for the five (5) market days immediately
preceding the date of the offer with a discount of not more than ten per centum (10%).
e) The option is personal to the grantee and is non-assignable.
f) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of ten (10) years commencing from the Effective Date (21 March 2022), after
which the Board shall have the sole and absolute discretion to extend in writing the tenure of the ESOS for another
five (5) years, in so long that the tenure does not exceed the maximum duration of a share issuance scheme allowed
by the relevant authorities.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 185
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES (CONTINUED)
The movements in outstanding options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares and the exercise price is as follows:
Number of options (’000)
Date of offer
Exercise
price 1.4.2023 Granted Exercised 31.3.2024
First grant 21 March 2022 RM1.35 22,034 – (523) 21,511
Second grant 11 May 2023 RM1.46 – 2,171 – 2,171
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COSTS
During the financial year, the total amount of insurance premium effected for Directors and officers of the Group is
RM27,550. There is no indemnity and insurance purchased for the auditors of the Group and of the Company.
QUALIFICATION OF SUBSIDIARIES’ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The auditors’ reports on the audited financial statements of Company’s subsidiaries did not contain any qualification or
any adverse comments.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps
to ascertain that:
i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision has been made for doubtful debts, and
ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been written down to
an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading, or
iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group
and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year and
which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year.
Farm Fresh Berhad
186
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely to become
enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors,
will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they
fall due.
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended
31 March 2024 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature
nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the end of that financial year and the date
of this report.
SUBSEQUENT EVENT
Subsequent event is disclosed in Note 35 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The details of remuneration paid by the Group and the Company to auditors of the Group and the Company during the
financial year are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Auditors’ remuneration
Statutory audit
– KPMG PLT (recurring) 383 120
– KPMG PLT (non-recurring) 102 82
– Member firm of KPMG International Limited 37 –
– Other auditor 396 –
Non-audit fee
– KPMG PLT
– Review of interim financial information 248 248
– Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control 10 10
– Agreed upon procedure 1 –
– Local affiliates of KPMG PLT
– Tax services and financial due diligence 492 365
– Other auditor
– Tax services 161 –
1,830 825
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
……………………………………..
Loi Tuan Ee
Director
……………………………………..
Loi Foon Kion
Director
Date: 25 July 2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 187
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 193 to 269 are drawn up in accordance with
MFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board, IFRS Accounting Standards as issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to
give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as of 31 March 2024 and of their
financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
……………………………………..
Loi Tuan Ee
Director
……………………………………..
Loi Foon Kion
Director
Date: 25 July 2024
I, Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of FARM FRESH
BERHAD, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 193 to 269 are, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration to be
true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan, NRIC: 790605-11-5353, MIA CA
40828 at Johor Bahru in the State of Johor on 25 July 2024.
……………………………………..……………..…
Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan
Before me:
Lau Lay Sung
Commissioner for Oaths
J-246
Farm Fresh Berhad
188
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
STATUTORY DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Farm Fresh Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 March 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year
then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages
193 to 269.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 March 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended
in accordance with MFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MFRS Accounting
Standards”), IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting
Standards”) and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA
Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context
of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
a. Acquisition of subsidiaries – Group and Company
Refer to Note 7 – Investments in subsidiaries, Note 18 – Put Option Liability, and Note 34 – Acquisition of subsidiaries.
The key audit matter
The Company completed the acquisition of 65% equity interest of The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (“TISSB”), for a total
consideration of RM81.61 million on 31 May 2023, and 70% equity interest of Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd. (“SWSB”),
for a total consideration of RM28.35 million on 17 October 2023 respectively.  
Based on the Purchase Price Allocation (“PPA”) performed by the Company, the fair value of the net identifiable
assets acquired was RM55.22 million and RM7.48 million for TISSB and SWSB respectively. The goodwill recognised
amounted to RM45.72 million and RM23.12 million for TISSB and SWSB respectively. The amounts allocated to
trademark was RM23.18 million for TISSB.
Pursuant to the acquisition of TISSB, the Company granted to non-controlling shareholder the right to require the
Company to purchase their equity interest in TISSB in accordance to the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement
(“SHA”) upon occurrence of any triggering events or annually commencing from the 3rd anniversary of the SHA’s
completion date.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 189
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key Audit Matters (continued)
a. Acquisition of subsidiaries – Group and Company (continued)
The key audit matter (continued)
We have identified the acquisition of subsidiaries as a key audit matter because the transactions are complex and
the determination of fair values in the identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed, including the identification
of intangible assets requires significant judgement.
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others:
• We have read the SHA to identify the completion date of transaction, the amount of consideration payable and
to understand significant terms of the agreement including the put option arrangement;
• We have assessed the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities recognised by agreeing the book value to
supporting documentation;
• We have assessed the Company’s valuation model used for recognising the intangible assets acquired, with a
particular focus on the key assumptions therein, including discount rate and long-term growth rate with the
involvement of our own valuation specialist;
• We have re-computed the goodwill arising from the business combination to determine the mathematical
accuracy;
• We have assessed and challenged the key assumptions and basis of measurement of put option liability in relation
to the acquisition of TISSB; and
• We have assessed the adequacy of disclosure in respect of acquisition in the financial statements as required by
the relevant accounting standards.
b. Valuation of biological assets - Group and Company
Refer to Note 5 – Biological assets.
The key audit matter
The Group and Company held RM133.28 million and RM36.22 million of biological assets respectively, comprising
cows, goat herds and bulls, measured at fair value less cost to sell as at 31 March 2024. In determining the fair
value of the biological assets, the Group and the Company used replacement cost approach and comparison
approach. We have identified the valuation of biological assets as a key audit matter because the determination of
the fair values required significant judgement in determining the price per head of comparable breed, weight, age
group and foreign exchange rate.
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others:
• We have performed physical counting of biological assets;
• We have evaluated the valuation techniques adopted in estimating the fair value with reference to the
requirements of relevant accounting standards, our business understanding and industry practice;
• We have checked the key inputs used in the valuation of biological assets report as at year end;
• We have evaluated the judgement and the key assumptions pertaining to the price per biological asset of
comparable breed, weight, age group, incidental costs and foreign exchange rate against market data;
• We have interviewed the component auditor with regards to their findings and conclusions with regard to their
work on biological assets and reviewed the component auditor’s documentation to evaluate the sufficiency and
appropriateness of the audit evidence. We have also assessed the competency of the component auditor; and
• We have assessed the adequacy of disclosure in the financial statements as required by the relevant accounting
standards.
Farm Fresh Berhad
190
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Independent Auditors’ Report (continued)
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the
annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRS Accounting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as
the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group
or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal
control of the Group and of the Company.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 191
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relations and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes the public disclosure about
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our
auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors are disclosed in the Note 7 to the financial statements.
OTHER MATTER
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
KPMG PLT Vengadesh A/L Jogarajah
(LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758) Approval Number: 03337/12/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Johor Bahru
Date: 25 July 2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
192
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Independent Auditors’ Report (continued)
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 494,633 413,861 135,694 118,834
Right-of-use assets 4 33,124 19,379 5,811 4,583
Biological assets 5 133,284 115,194 36,215 35,598
Intangible assets 6 112,826 19,317 4,226 3,118
Investments in subsidiaries 7 – – 255,845 141,338
Trade and other receivables 8 563 1,130 – –
Deferred tax assets 9 8,926 7,673 – –
Due from subsidiaries 10 – – 73,650 67,200
Total non-current assets 783,356 576,554 511,441 370,671
Inventories 11 156,299 173,675 57,089 90,747
Trade and other receivables 8 176,433 131,421 62,095 45,222
Due from subsidiaries 10 – – 187,830 129,856
Current tax assets 4,509 1,541 1,070 478
Derivative financial assets 12 893 685 7 –
Other investments 13 99,944 155,790 98,865 144,999
Cash and cash equivalents 14 58,167 22,970 13,108 6,851
Total current assets 496,245 486,082 420,064 418,153
Total assets 1,279,601 1,062,636 931,505 788,824
Equity
Share capital 15 399,555 381,071 399,555 381,071
Reserves 15 266,858 249,934 106,998 98,595
Equity attributable to owners
of the Company 666,413 631,005 506,553 479,666
Non-controlling interests 7 26,558 4,897 – –
Total equity 692,971 635,902 506,553 479,666
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 9 19,161 7,731 8,637 6,434
Deferred income 16 5,955 6,226 5,955 6,226
Loans and borrowings 17 338,365 243,318 301,473 201,891
Lease liabilities 16,742 8,124 4,074 3,941
Put option liability 18 36,955 – – –
Total non-current liabilities 417,178 265,399 320,139 218,492
Deferred income 16 271 271 271 271
Derivative financial liabilities 12 – 1,695 – 142
Loans and borrowings 17 67,648 92,934 7,453 21,235
Lease liabilities 8,010 2,293 63 61
Trade and other payables 19 92,875 64,142 22,183 15,887
Due to subsidiaries 10 – – 74,843 53,070
Current tax liabilities 648 – – –
Total current liabilities 169,452 161,335 104,813 90,666
Total liabilities 586,630 426,734 424,952 309,158
Total equity and liabilities 1,279,601 1,062,636 931,505 788,824
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 193
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 March 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue 20 810,411 629,691 362,969 285,978
Cost of sales (594,368) (480,038) (277,405) (227,423)
Gross profit 216,043 149,653 85,564 58,555
Other income 12,454 9,162 2,772 5,159
Selling and distribution expenses (69,727) (51,711) (41,571) (25,200)
Administrative expenses (67,425) (35,872) (9,213) (5,488)
Other expenses (6,337) (7,592) (1,259) (1,020)
Results from operating activities 85,008 63,640 36,293 32,006
Finance income 21 937 473 2,997 2,890
Finance costs 22 (16,880) (11,939) (11,830) (8,843)
Net finance costs (15,943) (11,466) (8,833) (5,953)
Profit before tax 69,065 52,174 27,460 26,053
Tax expense 23 (5,784) (2,240) (2,311) (1,093)
Profit for the year 24 63,281 49,934 25,149 24,960
Other comprehensive income/(expense),
net of tax
Items that are or may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences/
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
for the year 7,023 (9,571) – –
Total comprehensive income
for the year 70,304 40,363 25,149 24,960
Profit/(Loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 63,530 50,079 25,149 24,960
Non-controlling interests (249) (145) – –
Profit for the year 63,281 49,934 25,149 24,960
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
attributable to:
Owners of the Company 70,350 40,836 25,149 24,960
Non-controlling interests (46) (473) – –
Total comprehensive income
for the year 70,304 40,363 25,149 24,960
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 25 3.40 2.69 – –
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 25 3.40 2.69 – –
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Farm Fresh Berhad
194
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
Group Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM’000
Share
capital
RM’000
Translation
reserve
RM’000
Employee
share-based
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
At 1 April 2022 380,607 2,609 – 222,727 605,943 5,019 610,962
Foreign currency translation differences for
foreign operations/
Total other comprehensive expense for
the year – (9,243) – – (9,243) (328) (9,571)
Profit/(Loss) for the year – – – 50,079 50,079 (145) 49,934
Total comprehensive (expense)/income
for the year – (9,243) – 50,079 40,836 (473) 40,363
Contributions by and distributions to owners
of the Company
Acquisition of a subsidiary 34 – – – – – 351 351
Dividends to owners of the Company 26 – – – (19,880) (19,880) – (19,880)
Issuance of shares pursuant to ESOS 15 464 – (80) – 384 – 384
Share-based payment 15 – – 3,722 – 3,722 – 3,722
Total transactions with owners of the
Company 464 – 3,642 (19,880) (15,774) 351 (15,423)
At 31 March 2023 381,071 (6,634) 3,642 252,926 631,005 4,897 635,902
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 195
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM’000
Group
Share
capital
RM’000
Translation
reserve
RM’000
Employee
share-based
reserve
RM’000
Put option
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
At 1 April 2023 381,071 (6,634) 3,642 – 252,926 631,005 4,897 635,902
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations/
Total other
comprehensive income
for the year – 6,820 – – – 6,820 203 7,023
Profit/(Loss) for the year – – – – 63,530 63,530 (249) 63,281
Total comprehensive
income/(expense) for
the year – 6,820 – – 63,530 70,350 (46) 70,304
Contributions by and
distributions to owners of
the Company
Acquisition of a subsidiary 34 – – – – – – 21,569 21,569
Dividends to owners of the
Company 26 – – – – (18,719) (18,719) – (18,719)
Issuance of shares 17,632 – – – – 17,632 – 17,632
Issuance of shares
pursuant to ESOS 15 852 – (146) – – 706 – 706
Share-based payment 15 – – 2,119 – – 2,119 – 2,119
Put option liability over
shares held by
non-controlling interests 18 – – – (34,509) – (34,509) – (34,509)
Changes in put option
liability 18 – – – (2,446) – (2.446) – (2,446)
18,484 – 1,973 (36,955) (18,719) (35,217) 21,569 (13,648)
Change in ownership
interests in a subsidiary 7 – – – – 275 275 138 413
Total transactions with
owners of the Company 18,484 – 1,973 (36,955) (18,444) (34,942) 21,707 (13,235)
At 31 March 2024 399,555 186 5,615 (36,955) 298,012 666,413 26,558 692,971
Farm Fresh Berhad
196
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statement of Changes in Equity (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
Company Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
equity
RM’000
Share
capital
RM’000
Employee
share-based
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
At 1 April 2022 380,607 – 89,873 470,480
Profit and total comprehensive income
for the year – – 24,960 24,960
Contributions by and distributions to owners
of the Company
Dividends to owners of the Company 26 – – (19,880) (19,880)
Issuance of shares pursuant to ESOS 15 464 (80) – 384
Share based payment 15 – 3,722 – 3,722
Total transactions with owners of the Company 464 3,642 (19,880) (15,774)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 381,071 3,642 94,953 479,666
Profit and total comprehensive income
for the year – – 25,149 25,149
Contributions by and distributions to
owners of the Company
Dividends to owners of the Company 26 – – (18,719) (18,719)
Issuance of shares 17,632 – – 17,632
Issuance of shares pursuant to ESOS 15 852 (146) – 706
Share-based payment 15 – 2,119 – 2,119
Total transactions with owners of the Company 18,484 1,973 (18,719) 1,738
At 31 March 2024 399,555 5,615 101,383 506,553
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 197
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 69,065 52,174 27,460 26,053
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation:
– property, plant and equipment 40,165 31,064 14,360 11,465
– intangible assets 263 235 16 14
– right-of-use assets 8,158 1,928 192 150
Finance income (937) (473) (2,997) (2,890)
Finance costs 16,880 11,939 11,830 8,843
Equity settled share–based payment 2,070 3,653 405 764
Impairment loss on trade receivables 1,195 269 848 111
Bad debts written off 398 – – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 510 8 – –
Reversal of obsolete and slow-moving
inventories (614) (175) (265) (54)
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant
and equipment (867) (299) 6 –
Gain on derecognition of lease (30) – – –
Gain from a bargain purchase 34.3 – (134) – –
Amortisation of deferred income (271) (271) (271) (271)
(Gain)/Loss arising from changes in fair
value of dairy cows and goats (502) (110) 3,094 1,349
Fair value (gain)/loss of:
– derivative financial instruments (1,922) 2,486 (149) 145
– other investments (2,367) (2,457) (2,139) (2,169)
Distribution income from money market
investments (2,787) (3,738) (2,727) (3,722)
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange (13) (488) (18) (91)
Operating profit before changes in
working capital 128,394 95,611 49,645 39,697
Change in inventories 20,810 (53,314) 34,980 (53,675)
Change in trade and other receivables (36,793) (29,321) (17,720) (12,802)
Change in trade and other payables 25,291 (31,289) 6,313 (12,494)
Change in due from/(to) subsidiaries – – 15,617 46,325
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations 137,702 (18,313) 88,835 7,051
Interest received 937 473 2,997 2,890
Tax paid (3,644) (2,089) (700) (811)
Net cash from/(used in) operating
activities 134,995 (19,929) 91,132 9,130
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Farm Fresh Berhad
198
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of:
– property, plant and equipment 29 (105,966) (111,512) (32,737) (24,507)
– biological assets (23,538) (29,658) (6,042) (17,254)
– intangible assets (1,124) (324) (1,124) (324)
– right-of-use assets (1,312) (1,964) (1,315) (1,465)
– subsidiaries 34 (64,143) (3,239) – –
Proceeds from disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 3,751 9,052 1,511 491
– biological assets 5,776 8,209 1,273 13,969
Increase in investment in subsidiaries – – (95,161) (17,009)
Withdrawal from other investments 61,000 131,000 51,000 121,000
Advances to subsidiaries – – (58,268) (75,906)
Net cash (used in)/from investing
activities (125,556) 1,564 (140,863) (1,005)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid 22 (14,802) (11,588) (10,684) (8,656)
Dividend paid (18,719) (19,880) (18,719) (19,880)
Proceeds from shares issued 15 706 384 706 384
Drawdown of Sukuk 100,000 – 100,000 –
Drawdown of term loans – 13,759 – –
Repayment of term loans (563) (696) (393) (696)
Net (payment)/proceeds from:
– bankers’ acceptances (12,995) 26,350 74 3,585
– revolving credits (14,760) 14,760 (14,760) 14,760
– short-term financing 380 70 – –
Repayment of hire purchase liabilities (7,294) (6,837) – –
Repayment of lease liabilities (8,098) (1,335) (236) (336)
Capital contributed by a non-controlling
shareholder 413 351 – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing
activities 24,268 15,338 55,988 (10,839)
Exchange difference on translation of the
financial statements of foreign operation 1,490 (2,106) – –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash
equivalents 35,197 (5,133) 6,257 (2,714)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 22,970 28,103 6,851 9,565
Cash and cash equivalents at
31 March 14 58,167 22,970 13,108 6,851
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 199
Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Included in net cash from operating
activities
Payment relating to short-term leases 24 4,018 4,487 – 60
Payment relating to leases of low-value
assets 24 420 130 31 12
Included in net cash from financing
activities
Payment of lease liabilities 8,098 1,335 236 336
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 22 1,198 351 266 187
Total cash outflows for leases 13,734 6,303 533 595
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Farm Fresh Berhad
200
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statements of Cash Flows (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 March 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
Group
At
1 April
2022
RM’000
Finance
costs
RM’000
Net
changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM’000
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM’000
Acquisition
of a
business
RM’000
Derecog-
nition
of lease
RM’000
Exchange
difference
RM’000
At
31 March
2023/
1 April 2023
RM’000
Finance
costs
RM’000
Net
changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM’000
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM’000
Acquisition
of
subsidiaries
RM’000
Derecog-
nition
of lease
RM’000
Exchange
difference
RM’000
At
31 March
2024
RM’000
Term loans 18,726 – 13,063 – – – (1,352) 30,437 – (563) – 570 – 1,109 31,553
Bankers’ acceptances 41,889 – 26,350 – – – (835) 67,404 – (12,995) – – – 574 54,983
Revolving credits – – 14,760 – – – – 14,760 – (14,760) – – – – –
Hire purchase liabilities 20,545 – (6,837) 6,229 1,355 – (1,109) 20,183 – (7,294) – 1,263 – 554 14,706
Lease liabilities 6,879 351 (1,335) 4,924 – (368) (34) 10,417 1,198 (8,098) 10,640 11,437 (901) 59 24,752
Short term financing 971 – 70 – – – (60) 981 – 380 – – – 44 1,405
Sukuk 202,487 – – – – – – 202,487 879 100,000 – – – – 303,366
Total liabilities from financing
activities 291,497 351 46,071 11,153 1,355 (368) (3,390) 346,669 2,077 56,670 10,640 13,270 (901) 2,340 430,765
Company
At
1 April
2022
RM’000
Finance
costs
RM’000
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM’000
Derecognition
of lease
RM’000
At
31 March
2023/
1 April 2023
RM’000
Acquisition of
new lease
RM’000
Finance
costs
RM’000
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM’000
At
31 March
2024
RM’000
Bankers’ acceptances – – 3,585 – 3,585 – – 74 3,659
Lease liabilities 4,519 187 (336) (368) 4,002 105 266 (236) 4,137
Revolving credits – – 14,760 – 14,760 – – (14,760) –
Term loans 2,990 – (696) – 2,294 – – (393) 1,901
Sukuk 202,487 – – – 202,487 – 879 100,000 303,366
Total liabilities from financing
activities 209,996 187 17,313 (368) 227,128 105 1,145 84,685 313,063
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 201
Farm Fresh Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The addresses of the principal place of business and registered office of the
Company are as follows:
Principal place of business
Plot D, KM6
Jalan Muadzam – Rompin
26700 Muadzam Shah
Pahang Darul Makmur
Registered office
E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
Wilayah Persekutuan
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 March 2024 comprise
the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually referred to as “Group entities”).  
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 March 2024 do not include other
entities.
The principal activities of the Company are investment holding, rearing of dairy cows and the production, marketing, sale
of cow’s milk and plant-based related products. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2024.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with MFRS
Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MFRS Accounting Standards”),
IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting
Standards”) and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments of the MFRS Accounting Standards
that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been adopted by
the Group and the Company:
MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2024
• Amendments to MFRS 16, Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities with Covenants and
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
• Amendments to MFRS 107, Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Supplier
Finance Arrangements
MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2025
• Amendments to MFRS 121, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lack of Exchangeability
Farm Fresh Berhad
202
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2026
• Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Classification
and Measurement of Financial Instruments
MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2027
• MFRS 18, Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
• MFRS 19, Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures
MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on
or after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards, interpretations and
amendments in the respective financial year when the above accounting standards, interpretations and
amendments become effective, if applicable.
The initial application of the accounting standards, interpretations and amendments are not expected to have
any material financial impacts to the current period and prior period financial statements of the Group and the
Company upon their first adoption.
(b) Basis of measurement
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following
items, which are measured based on the measurement bases stated below:
Items Measurement bases
Biological assets Fair value less cost to sell
Derivative financial instruments Fair value
Other investments Fair value
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency
and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 203
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRS Accounting Standards requires management
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies
that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements other than those disclosed in
the following:
• Note 5 – valuation of biological assets
• Note 6 – measurement of the recoverable amounts of cash-generating units
• Note 15 – employee share-based reserve
• Note 18 – measurement of liability on put option granted to non-controlling interest
• Note 28.4 – measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)
• Note 34 –	
business combination: fair value of the consideration transferred and fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed
2. CHANGES IN MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY
2.1 Material accounting policy information
The Group adopted amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements and MFRS Practice Statement
2 – Disclosures of Accounting Policies from 1 April 2023. The amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’,
rather than ‘significant’, accounting policies. The amendments also provide guidance on the application of
materiality to disclosure of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting
policy information that users need to understand other information in the financial statements.
Although the amendments did not result in any changes to the Group’s accounting policies, it impacted the
accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements. The material accounting policy information
is disclosed in the respective notes to the financial statements where relevant.
Farm Fresh Berhad
204
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land and
buildings
RM’000
Farm barn,
building and
electrical
installation
RM’000
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM’000
Office
and shop
equipment
and design
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Agrotourism
farm
RM’000
Construction
-in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
At cost
At 1 April 2022 47,165 100,495 224,503 5,504 11,027 392 32,188 421,274
Additions 29,514 22,956 26,209 3,808 2,837 2,131 30,379 117,834
Disposals/Written off (5,937) (423) (2,424) (93) (884) (65) – (9,826)
Transfer – 13,512 8,866 35 – 5,411 (27,824) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries
(Note 34) – – 2,453 184 1,356 – 34 4,027
Exchange difference (2,733) (315) (5,064) (36) (268) – (474) (8,890)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 68,009 136,225 254,543 9,402 14,068 7,869 34,303 524,419
Additions 827 28,630 30,269 12,367 2,067 904 30,912 105,976
Disposals/Written off – (183) (6,744) (399) (332) – (488) (8,146)
Transfer – 10,985 10,787 840 123 – (22,735) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries
(Note 34) – – 3,603 17,311 3,799 – 26 24,739
Exchange difference 1,811 220 3,252 27 208 – 780 6,298
At 31 March 2024 70,647 175,877 295,710 39,548 19,933 8,773 42,798 653,286
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2022 875 16,358 52,352 2,913 4,658 9 – 77,165
Depreciation charge 170 5,275 21,552 1,337 2,390 340 – 31,064
Disposals/Written off – (12) (628) (17) (404) (4) – (1,065)
Exchange difference – (23) (748) (13) (94) – – (878)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 1,045 21,598 72,528 4,220 6,550 345 – 106,286
Depreciation charge 170 6,984 25,978 3,993 2,587 453 – 40,165
Disposals/Written off – (20) (1,223) (212) (203) – – (1,658)
Acquisition of subsidiaries
(Note 34) – – 1,638 8,521 1,612 – – 11,771
Exchange difference – 19 661 12 85 – – 777
At 31 March 2024 1,215 28,581 99,582 16,534 10,631 798 – 157,341
Accumulated impairment loss
At 1 April 2022 – – 4,539 – – – – 4,539
Exchange difference – – (267) – – – – (267)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 – – 4,272 – – – – 4,272
Disposals – – (3,094) – – – – (3,094)
Exchange difference – – 134 – – – – 134
At 31 March 2024 – – 1,312 – – – – 1,312
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2022 46,290 84,137 167,612 2,591 6,369 383 32,188 339,570
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 66,964 114,627 177,743 5,182 7,518 7,524 34,303 413,861
At 31 March 2024 69,432 147,296 194,816 23,014 9,302 7,975 42,798 494,633
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 205
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Company
Farm barn,
building and
electrical
installation
RM’000
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM’000
Office
and shop
equipment
and design
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction
-in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
At cost
At 1 April 2022 45,330 82,372 1,208 1,218 3,344 133,472
Additions 4,605 14,579 223 333 4,767 24,507
Disposals/Written off – (741) (73) – – (814)
Transfer 2,237 84 – – (2,321) –
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 52,172 96,294 1,358 1,551 5,790 157,165
Additions 8,851 22,094 873 730 189 32,737
Disposals/Written off (43) (1,985) (4) – (7) (2,039)
Transfer 6 4,442 – 3 (4,451) --
At 31 March 2024 60,986 120,845 2,227 2,284 1,521 187,863
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2022 5,970 20,212 485 522 – 27,189
Depreciation charge 2,277 8,756 205 227 – 11,465
Disposals/Written off – (323) – – – (323)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 8,247 28,645 690 749 – 38,331
Depreciation charge 2,632 10,968 401 359 – 14,360
Disposals/Written off (3) (519) – – – (522)
At 31 March 2024 10,876 39,094 1,091 1,108 – 52,169
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2022 39,360 62,160 723 696 3,344 106,283
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 43,925 67,649 668 802 5,790 118,834
At 31 March 2024 50,110 81,751 1,136 1,176 1,521 135,694
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Carrying amounts of land and buildings
Land 60,341 58,759
Buildings 9,091 8,205
69,432 66,964
Farm Fresh Berhad
206
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
3.1 Impairment loss – Australia’s operation
In the previous financial years, the Group assessed the recoverable amount of plant and machineries under the
fruit jam and sauces divisions and recognised a full impairment loss of RM4,272,000 on certain plant and
machineries due to loss incurred in fruit jam and sauces divisions. During the year, the Group has disposed of
certain plants and machineries which were previously impaired.
The net gain on disposal of impaired assets of RM802,000 was recognised as other income in the statement
of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
3.2 Assets under hire purchase
Included in property, plant and equipment of the Group is motor vehicles and plant machineries acquired under
hire purchase with carrying amount of RM35,397,000 (2023: RM38,808,000).
3.3 Security
Certain land and buildings of the Group with carrying amount of RM48,940,000 (2023: RM47,221,000) are
charged to banks as security for banking facilities granted to its subsidiary (see Note 17).
3.4 Properties subject to operating lease
The Group leases one of its warehouses to a third party under a short-term lease arrangement.
The Group generally does not require a financial guarantee on the lease arrangement. The rental income is
recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as disclose in
Note 24.
3.5 Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses except for freehold land which is stated at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of
that equipment.
(b) Depreciation
Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
each component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for
use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Property, plant and equipment under construction are not
depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current period and comparative periods are as follows:
Buildings 14 - 25 years
Farm barn, building and electrical installation 5 - 33 years
Milk plant, machinery, tools and equipment 5 - 10 years
Office and shop equipment and design 5 - 10 years
Agrotourism 5 - 30 years
Motor vehicles 5 - 10 years
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 207
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
3.6 Others
Included in farm barn, building and electrical installation and construction-in-progress are the following expenses
capitalised:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Staff costs 1,839 2,795 389 492
Interest expense capitalised 735 509 – –
Included in staff costs capitalised of the Group are share-based payment amounting to RM10,000 (2023:
RM94,000).
Interest expense capitalised is at 3.94% (2023: 5.5%).
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Note
Land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
At cost
At 1 April 2022 13,889 932 14,821
Addition 2,714 4,174 6,888
Depreciation (1,123) (805) (1,928)
Derecognition -- (368) (368)
Exchange difference -- (34) (34)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 15,480 3,899 19,379
Addition 1,407 10,545 11,952
Acquisition of subsidiaries 34 -- 10,765 10,765
Depreciation (1,223) (6,935) (8,158)
Derecognition -- (871) (871)
Exchange difference -- 57 57
At 31 March 2024 15,664 17,460 33,124
Company
At cost
At 1 April 2022 3,036 600 3,636
Addition 1,465 -- 1,465
Depreciation (120) (30) (150)
Derecognition -- (368) (368)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 4,381 202 4,583
Addition 1,408 12 1,420
Depreciation (181) (11) (192)
At 31 March 2024 5,608 203 5,811
The Group and the Company lease a number of land and buildings that run between one year and thirty-three years,
with an option to renew the lease after that date.
Farm Fresh Berhad
208
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
4.1 Security
Included in right-of-use assets of the Group with carrying amount of RM1,011,000 (2023: RM1,069,000) charged
to banks as security for banking facilities granted to the subsidiary (see Note 17).
4.2 Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
All right-of-use assets are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
(b) Recognition exemption
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease
payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising
from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to
which the Group applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sublease as an operating
lease.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 209
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Dairy cows and goats
At fair value
At 1 April 111,503 91,995 35,598 34,205
Additions 23,538 29,364 6,042 17,254
Disposals (5,776) (8,209) (1,273) (13,969)
Net gain/(loss) arising from changes in fair value
of dairy cows and goats 502 110 (3,094) (1,349)
Transfer to inventories (1,058) (543) (1,058) (543)
Transfer from semen and embryos – 298 – –
Exchange difference 872 (1,512) – –
At 31 March 129,581 111,503 36,215 35,598
Semen and embryos
At cost
At 1 April 3,691 3,715 – –
Addition – 294 – –
Transfer to dairy cows and goats – (298) – –
Exchange difference 12 (20) – –
At 31 March 3,703 3,691 – –
133,284 115,194 36,215 35,598
The quantity of dairy cows and dairy goats owned by the Group and the Company at the end of the reporting period
is shown below.
Group Company
2024
Heads
2023
Heads
2024
Heads
2023
Heads
Goat herds 217 239 – –
Dairy herds 11,852 10,355 2,915 2,841
Bulls 1,958 1,570 765 682
14,027 12,164 3,680 3,523
The raw milk quantity produced from dairy herds and goat herds owned by the Group and the Company during the
financial year is shown below.
Group Company
2024
Litres
2023
Litres
2024
Litres
2023
Litres
Goat herds 17,778 22,487 – –
Dairy herds 32,200,395 26,472,834 6,532,066 5,909,189
32,218,173 26,495,321 6,532,066 5,909,189
Farm Fresh Berhad
210
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
5.1 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to biological assets
The Group and the Company applied judgement and assumptions in determining the valuation of biological
assets. The Group and the Company first determine the import price before using significant judgement to
determine the adjustments required to reflect the breed, weight and age group of the respective dairy cows.
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as
well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Description of valuation technique and inputs used
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship
between significant
unobservable inputs and
fair value measurement
Malaysian Farm
(a) Replacement cost approach
Reference to expected cost of purchase of cows by other farms
in Malaysia and overseas, adjusted for differences in breed,
weight and age group.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Cows
Calves and heifers: RM6,230 to RM8,970
(2023: RM6,200 to RM8,870)
Milkable cows: RM10,910 to RM12,840
(2023: RM10,760 to RM12,640)
Price per head
of comparable
breed and age
group.
The estimated fair value
would increase/(decrease)
if the price per head is
higher/(lower).
(b) Comparison approach
Reference to sale price of comparable goat herds and bulls and
adjusted for differences in key attributes such as breed and age.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Goat herds
RM500 to RM3,800 (2023: RM500 to RM3,800)
Bulls
RM2,000 to RM5,000 (2023: RM2,000 to RM5,000)
Australian Farm
Comparison approach: Reference to sale price of comparable dairy
herds and bulls and adjusted for differences in key attributes such as
breed and age.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Cows
Calves and heifers: RM3,080 to RM5,390 (2023: RM3,058 to RM5,351)
Milkable cows: RM8,470 (2023: RM7,950)
Price per head
of comparable
breed and age
group.
The estimated fair value
would increase/(decrease)
if the price per head is
higher/(lower).
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 211
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
5.1 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to biological assets (continued)
Level 3 fair value (continued)
The fair value of semen and embryos cannot be measured reliably as there is no active market and transaction
data available. The semen and embryos were bought for own use to improve the genetic quality of the dairy
cows and transferred to dairy cows based on the consumption.
No amortisation is recognised for the semen and embryos due to the fact that there is no expiration date on
frozen semen and embryos as these are properly stored.
The Directors monitor on the key factors in determining the fair value such as comparable sales price and
foreign exchange rate affecting import price as part of their financial risk management on biological assets.
5.2 Material accounting policy information
(a) Dairy cows and goats
The Group’s biological assets comprise dairy herds, bulls and dairy goats. The biological assets are
measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently at the end of the reporting period at their fair
value less costs to sell, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss for the year in which it
arises.
The feeding costs, incurred for raising of heifers and calves are capitalised, until such time as the heifers
and calves begin to produce milk.
The Group determines whether an active or other effective market exists for a biological asset in its
present location and condition, and whether there is a quoted price in that market as the appropriate basis
for determining the fair value of that asset. If an active market does not exist then the Directors use one
of the following valuation methods, when available, in determining fair value:
• the most recent market transaction price, provided that there has not been a significant change in
economic circumstances between the date of that transaction and the end of the reporting period; or
• market prices, in markets accessible to the entity, for similar assets with adjustment to reflect differences.
(b) Semen and embryos
Semen and embryos are stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment
losses, where applicable.
Cost includes expenditure that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any other costs
directly attributable to bringing the assets for its intended use.
Farm Fresh Berhad
212
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Water-use
license
RM’000
Goodwill
RM’000
Trademark/
Brand
RM’000
Software
RM’000
Total
RM
Group
At cost
At 1 April 2022 11,543 4,949 107 3,402 20,001
Addition of a subsidiary
(Note 34) – – 236 – 236
Addition – – 26 298 324
Amortisation – – (14) (221) (235)
Exchange difference (678) (291) (7) (33) (1,009)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 10,865 4,658 348 3,446 19,317
Acquisition of a subsidiary
(Note 34) – 68,839 23,182 – 92,021
Addition – – 32 1,092 1,124
Amortisation – – (43) (220) (263)
Exchange difference 428 183 – 16 627
At 31 March 2024 11,293 73,680 23,519 4,334 112,826
Company
At cost
At 1 April 2022 – – 107 2,701 2,808
Addition – – 26 298 324
Amortisation – – (14) – (14)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 – – 119 2,999 3,118
Addition – – 32 1,092 1,124
Amortisation – – (16) – (16)
At 31 March 2024 – – 135 4,091 4,226
6.1 Water-use license
Water-use license is an entitlement to irrigate a specific parcel or parcels of land. The useful lives of the water-
use license are estimated to be indefinite as the water-use license is always attached to the owner of the land.
The recoverable amount of water-use license was determined based on the fair value less to costs of disposal.
The fair value of water-use license is based on market comparison technique within Level 2. The valuation
model is based on market transaction prices published on the relevant authority website. For the purpose of
impairment testing, the management has compared the carrying amount against the transaction price published
on the relevant authority website as at the financial year end.
Based on the management assessment, no impairment is required as the recoverable amount was higher than
carrying amount.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 213
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
6.2 Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing intangible assets
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill, trademark/brand, the aggregated carrying amount were
allocated to the following cash-generating units:
Goodwill Trademark/Brand
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (“TISSB”) 45,722 – 23,182 –
Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd. (“SWSB”) 23,117 – – –
Australia’s Kyabram facilities and fruit jam
and sauces divisions 4,841 4,658 – –
73,680 4,658 23,182 –
(i) Cash-generating unit of TISSB
The recoverable amount is determined based on fair value less cost to sell (FVLCTS) calculation for both
the retail and consumer packaged goods (CPG) business of TISSB.
Intangible assets are allocated for impairment testing purposes to the individual entity which is also the
CGU. The FVLCTS calculations apply a discounted cash flows model using cash flow projections based on
financial budgets approved by management covering five-year period.
The key assumptions used in the FVLCTS calculations are as follows:
(a) Revenue growth – the basis used to determine future earnings potential are historical sales and
expected growth in the CPG business and new retail TISSB outlets;
(b) Projected gross margins – gross margins are projected based on the historical margin achieved or
predetermined profit margin for the products;
(c) Discount rates – the pre-tax discount rates of 13% applied to the cash flow projections are derived
from the cost of capital plus a reasonable risk premium at the date of assessment of the respective
CGUs;
(d) Terminal growth rate – the terminal growth rate of 0.5% used does not exceed the long-term average
growth rate of the respective industry; and
(e) Capital expenditure – projected capital expenditure for the new retail outlets and CPG business plant
and machineries.
Based on the management assessment, no impairment loss is required as the recoverable amount was
higher than carrying amount. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these
key assumptions would not cause the aggregate carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed the aggregate
recoverable amount.
The fair value measurement was categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on inputs in the valuation techniques
used.
Farm Fresh Berhad
214
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
6.2 Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing intangible assets (continued)
(ii) Cash-generating unit of SWSB
The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use (VIU) calculation.
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to the individual entity which is also the CGU. The
VIU calculations apply a discounted cash flows model using cash flow projections based on financial
budgets approved by management covering five-year period.
The key assumptions used in the value is use calculations are as follows:
(a) Revenue growth – the basis used to determine future earnings potential are historical sales and
expected growth in the ice-cream products;
(b) Projected gross margins – gross margins are projected based on the historical margin achieved or
predetermined profit margin for the products;
(c) Discount rates – the pre-tax discount rates of 13% applied to the cash flow projections are derived
from the cost of capital plus a reasonable risk premium at the date of assessment of the respective
CGUs; and
(d) Terminal growth rate – the terminal growth rate of 0.5% used does not exceed the long-term average
growth rate of the respective industry.
Based on the management assessment, no impairment loss is required as the recoverable amount was
higher than carrying amount. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these
key assumptions would not cause the aggregate carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed the aggregate
recoverable amount.
6.3 Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, trademark/brand of TISSB with indefinite useful lives, that are
acquired by the Group, which have finite useful lives, are measured at cost less any accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
(b) Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives for the current are as follows:
“Farm Fresh” trademark 10 years
“St David Dairy” brand name 10 years
Software 5 years
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 215
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cost of investment 178,927 64,749
Loans to subsidiaries 76,918 76,589
255,845 141,338
Included in investment in subsidiaries is an amount of RM4,672,000 (2023: RM2,958,000) arising from the ESOS
granted to the subsidiaries’ employees.
The loans to subsidiaries are interest-free and unsecured. The settlement of the loans is neither planned nor likely
to occur in the foreseeable future. As these loans, in substance, form part of the Company’s net investment in the
subsidiary, they are stated at cost.
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of entity
Principal place
of business/
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Effective ownership
interest and voting
interest
2024
%
2023
%
Farm Fresh Milk Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and goats and
production and sales of cow’s and goat’s
milk, yogurt and plant-based products
100 100
GEM Organics (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Property holding 100 100
AFS Dairy Company Australia
Pty Ltd
Australia Holding of the semen and embryos of
Australian Fresian Sahiwal dairy cattle
100 100
Holstein Dairy (Desaru) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and sale of cow’s
milk
100 100
Holstein Selama Dairy Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and the production
and sale of cow’s milk products
100 100
Serdang Dairy Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and sale of cow’s
milk; and agrotourism
100 100
The Holstein Milk Company (M) Sdn.
Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 100 100
Farm Fresh Jomcha Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Operation of “Jomcha” chains of beverage
outlets as well as providing licensing of
“Jomcha” beverage outlets
100 100
Farm Fresh Digital Sdn. Bhd.@ Malaysia Sale of food and beverage via e-commerce 100 –
The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd.$ Malaysia Production, sale and trading of ice-cream,
operation of café outlets, as well as
providing livensing of Inside Scoop” café
outlets
65 –
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Farm Fresh Berhad
216
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Name of entity
Principal place
of business/
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Effective ownership
interest and voting
interest
2024
%
2023
%
Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd.$ Malaysia Production and sale of ice-cream 70 –
Farm Fresh Milk Incorporated* Philippines Production and sale of milk products 70 100
The Holstein Milk Company
(Australia) Pty Ltd#
Australia Investment holding 80 80
Farm Fresh Milk (HK) Limited#/& Hong Kong Dormant 100 100
The Provenance Creamery
Pte Ltd#/&
Singapore Distribution and retail of dairy product 100 100
Subsidiaries of The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd
Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd# Australia Rearing of dairy cows and the production,
marketing and sale of cow’s milk
80 80
Henry Jones Foods Pty Ltd# Australia Production of jam and sauces 80 80
Subsidiary of Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd
St David Dairy Pty Ltd# Australia Sale of cow’s milk, butter, yogurt, cream
and cheese
72 72
# Not audited by KPMG PLT
* Audited by other member firm of KPMG
@ Incorporated during the year
$ Acquired during the year (see Note 34)
& Qualifies for audit exemption and is not audited
On 31 January 2024, the Company’s equity interest in Farm Fresh Milk Incorporated (“FFI”), decreased from 100% to
70% following the issuance of 49,128 ordinary shares at a consideration of RM413,000 by FFI to its new shareholder,
Strong Alliance Holdings Limited Corporation. The Group recognised an increase in non-controlling interests of
RM138,000 and an increase in retained earnings of RM275,000
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 217
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
The Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
The Holstein
Milk
Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd
and its
subsidiaries
The Inside
Scoop
Sdn. Bhd.
Sin Wah
Ice Cream
Sdn. Bhd.
Other
immaterial
subsidiary Total
NCI percentage of
ownership interest
and voting interest 20% 35% 30%
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Carrying amount of NCI 4,163 20,522 2,763 (890) 26,558
(Loss)/Profit allocated to NCI (1,710) 1,196 520 (255) (249)
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income allocated to NCI (1,507) 1,196 520 (255) (46)
2024
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
RM’000
The Inside
Scoop
Sdn. Bhd.
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Summarised financial information before
intra-group elimination
As at 31 March
Non-current assets 171,594 25,063 4,353
Current assets 67,627 32,597 8,121
Non-current liabilities (103,621) (9,312) (813)
Current liabilities (112,834) (7,308) (2,449)
Net assets 22,766 41,040 9,212
Year ended 31 March
Revenue 203,199 40,160 10,275
(Loss)/ Profit for the year (7,393) 3,418 1,736
Total comprehensive income – 3,418 1,736
Cash flows from operating activities 12,144 5,211 2,469
Cash flows used in investing activities (2,727) (6,314) (904)
Cash flows used in financing activities (11,026) (4,354) (242)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash
equivalents (1,609) (5,457) 1,323
Farm Fresh Berhad
218
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (continued)
2023
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
Other
immaterial
subsidiary Total
NCI percentage of ownership interest 20%
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Carrying amount of NCI 5,670 (773) 4,897
Profit/(Loss) allocated to NCI 651 (796) (145)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) allocated
to NCI 323 (796) (473)
2023
RM’000
The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries
Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination
As at 31 March
Non-current assets 167,789
Current assets 66,309
Non-current liabilities (99,241)
Current liabilities (106,105)
Net assets 28,752
Year ended 31 March
Revenue 224,648
Profit for the year 4,311
Total comprehensive income 5,915
Cash flows from operating activities 9,462
Cash flows used in investing activities (15,931)
Cash flows from financing activities 9,451
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,982
7.2 Material accounting policy information
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 219
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current
Net investment in lease 8.1 410 759 – –
Other receivables 153 371 – –
563 1,130 – –
Current
Trade receivables 8.2 139,599 101,964 55,934 31,955
Other receivables 8.2 6,725 5,536 2,230 3,310
Deposits 9,326 3,118 927 1,023
Prepayments 9,958 7,534 1,662 4,369
Advance payments 8.2 & 8.3 10,520 12,953 1,342 4,565
Net investment in lease 8.1 305 316 – –
176,433 131,421 62,095 45,222
176,996 132,551 62,095 45,222
8.1 Net investment in lease
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
At 1 April 1,075 1,088
Acquisition of a subsidiary 100 –
Addition – 442
Interest income 42 57
Lease payments received (435) (338)
Derecognition (67) (174)
At 31 March 715 1,075
The Group leases several motor vehicles to third parties. Each of the leases contains an initial non-cancellable
period of three to five years, with a fixed rent.
These leases transfer substantially all the risk and rewards incidental to ownership of the motor vehicles. The
Group expects the residual value of the motor vehicles at the end of the lease term to be minimal. These leases
do not include buy-back agreements or residual value guarantees.
Farm Fresh Berhad
220
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
8.1 Net investment in lease (continued)
The lease payments to be received are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Less than one year 331 364
One to two years 191 326
Two to three years 75 224
Three to four years 75 86
Four to five years 106 180
Total undiscounted lease payments 778 1,180
Unearned interest income (63) (105)
Net investment in lease 715 1,075
The following are recognised in profit or loss:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Gain for new finance lease entered into – 124
8.2 Included in trade and other receivables are amounts due from companies in which certain Directors of the
Group have substantial financial interests:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Other receivables 358 11
Advance payment for acquisition of biological assets – 1,854
358 1,865
8.3 The advance payments other than those mentioned in Note 8.2 above are paid to suppliers for raw materials
and services to be performed. These advances were unsecured, interest free and expected to set off against
future billings.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 221
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
9.1 Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Group
Intangible asset – – (5,564) – (5,564) –
Property, plant and equipment – – (20,532) (13,677) (20,532) (13,677)
Change in fair value of biological
assets – – (10,844) (7,661) (10,844) (7,661)
Fair value gain of derivative assets – – (253) (206) (253) (206)
Fair value loss of derivative
liabilities – 407 – – – 407
Allowance for impairment in
respect of trade receivables 444 81 – – 444 81
Slow-moving inventories 226 322 – – 226 322
Unabsorbed capital allowances 8,557 6,200 – – 8,557 6,200
Unutilised tax losses 14,990 11,892 – – 14,990 11,892
Others 2,741 3,165 – (581) 2,741 2,584
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 26,958 22,067 (37,193) (22,125) (10,235) (58)
Set off of tax (18,032) (14,394) 18,032 14,394 – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 8,926 7,673 (19,161) (7,731) (10,235) (58)
Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment (9,135) (6,238)
Fair value loss of derivative assets (2) –
Fair value gain of derivative liabilities – 34
Allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables 230 27
Unabsorbed capital allowances 17 5
Others 253 (262)
(8,637) (6,434)
The Company has been granted approval of East Coast Economic Region Incentive (“ECER incentive”) under
Income Tax Act, 1967 for milk and cheese processing projects. Under the incentives, the Company is allowed
to claim income tax exemption on its statutory income arising from qualifying projects for 10 (5+5) years
commencing from the first year the Company derives statutory income. The ECER incentive expires in YA2029.
Losses incurred before the exemption period and during the exemption period are allowed to be carried
forward for utilisation during the post exemption period.
Farm Fresh Berhad
222
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
9.1 Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (continued)
A subsidiary has been granted Agricultural Tax Incentive under Section 127 of Income Tax Act, 1967 for rearing
of cows/goats and cows/goats milk processing projects. Under the incentives, the subsidiary is allowed to claim
income tax exemption on its statutory income arising from qualifying projects for 10 years commencing from
the first year the subsidiary derives statutory income. The Agricultural Tax incentive expires in YA2030. Losses
incurred before the exemption period and during the exemption period are allowed to be carried forward for
utilisation during the post exemption period.
Unutilised tax losses of RM12,258,000 (2023: RM9,850,000) are relating to The Holstein Milk Company (Australia)
Pty Ltd Group which has no expiry.
9.2 Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items in certain subsidiaries (stated
at gross):
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment (10,566) (9,012)
Unabsorbed capital allowances 11,146 9,067
Unutilised tax losses 15,986 15,986
Change in fair value of biological assets (4,364) (3,653)
Others (60) (260)
12,142 12,128
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future
taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom.
The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the revised deductible temporary differences, unabsorbed
capital allowances and unutilised tax losses available to the Group.
The unrecognised unutilised tax losses will expire in the following years of assessment:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2028 6,097 6,097
2029 788 788
2030 1,038 1,038
2031 2,065 2,065
2032 2,579 2,579
2033 3,419 3,419
15,986 15,986
The unabsorbed capital allowances do not expire under the current tax legislation.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 223
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
9.3 Movement in temporary differences during the year
At
1 April
2022
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 23)
RM’000
Exchange
differences
RM’000
At
31 March
2023/
1 April
2023
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 23)
RM’000
Acquisition
of
subsidiaries
(Note 34)
RM’000
Exchange
differences
RM’000
At
31 March
2024
RM’000
Group
Intangible asset – – – – – (5,564) – (5,564)
Property, plant and equipment (11,635) (2,109) 67 (13,677) (5,814) (1,021) (20) (20,532)
Change in fair value of
biological assets
(6,636) (1,122) 97 (7,661) (3,141) – (42) (10,844)
Fair value gain of derivative
assets
(409) 197 6 (206) (45) – (2) (253)
Fair value loss of derivative
liabilities
– 407 – 407 (407) – – –
Allowance for impairment in
respect of trade receivables
43 38 – 81 363 – – 444
Slow-moving inventories 364 (35) (7) 322 (97) – 1 226
Unabsorbed capital allowances 3,632 2,568 – 6,200 2,357 – – 8,557
Unutilised tax losses 15,243 (3,035) (316) 11,892 2,963 – 135 14,990
Others 1,156 1,792 (364) 2,584 (748) – 905 2,741
1,758 (1,299) (517) (58) (4,569) (6,585) 977 (10,235)
At
1 April
2022
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 23)
RM’000
At
31 March
2023/
1 April
2023
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 23)
RM’000
At
31 March
2024
RM’000
Company
Property, plant and equipment (5,964) (274) (6,238) (2,897) (9,135)
Fair value gain/(loss) of derivative asset (1) 1 – (2) (2)
Fair value gain/(loss) of derivative liabilities – 34 34 (34) –
Allowance for impairment in respect of trade
receivables
– 27 27 203 230
Unabsorbed capital allowances 6 (1) 5 12 17
Others 261 (523) (262) 515 253
(5,698) (736) (6,434) (2,203) (8,637)
Farm Fresh Berhad
224
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
10. DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current
Due from subsidiaries
– non-trade 73,650 67,200
Current
Due from subsidiaries
– trade 12,036 5,880
– non-trade 175,794 123,976
187,830 129,856
261,480 197,056
Current
Due to subsidiaries
– trade (74,843) (53,070)
The non-current amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, subject to an interest from 4.13% to 4.95% (2023:
4.13%) per annum on the monthly outstanding balances which RM67,200,000 is receivable by 23 April 2026 and
RM6,450,000 is receivable by 28 February 2029.
The remaining current non-trade portion of amounts due from/(to) subsidiaries are unsecured, interest free and
repayable on demand while the trade portion is subject to normal trade terms.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 225
11. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Raw material 56,664 86,691 29,022 54,272
Raw milk 39,407 57,649 11,423 28,320
Consumables 16,657 11,476 2,426 1,374
Goods-in-transit 25,501 6,226 – 310
Finished goods 17,386 11,141 13,750 6,009
Work-in-progress 684 492 468 462
156,299 173,675 57,089 90,747
Recognised in profit or loss:
– Inventories recognised as cost of sales 435,701 345,499 220,910 180,684
– 
Reversal of obsolete and slow-moving
inventories 11.1 (614) (175) (265) (54)
435,087 349,324 220,645 180,630
11.1 Reversal of obsolete and slow-moving inventories
The reversal of obsolete and slow-moving inventories in both current and prior year are mainly due to change
in estimates.
11.2 Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is
calculated using the first-in first-out method.
(b) Raw milk
Raw milks are measured at fair value less cost to sell. The fair values of the raw milks are determined
based on the observable market prices in active market, less the necessary transportation cost at the
point of sale. Changes in fair value of agriculture produce are recognised in profit or loss.
Farm Fresh Berhad
226
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Group Company
2024 2024
Nominal
value
RM’000
Asset
RM’000
Nominal
value
RM’000
Asset
RM’000
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss
Commodity future contracts 33,506 425 – –
Forward exchange contracts 217 7 217 7
Interest rate swap 15,396 461 – –
49,119 893 217 7
Group Company
2023 2023
Nominal
value
RM’000
Asset/
liabilities
RM’000
Nominal
value
RM’000
Asset/
liabilities
RM’000
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss
Forward exchange contracts 55,126 (1,695) 5,075 (142)
Interest rate swap 14,812 685 – –
69,938 (1,010) 5,075 (142)
The commodity future contracts were entered into with the objective of managing and hedging the Group’s exposure
to adverse commodity price movements. These contracts are not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges and
are entered into for periods consistent with fair value changes exposure.
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the foreign currency exposures arising from the Group’s payables
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of Group entities. Most of the forward exchange
contracts have maturities of less than one year after the year end of the reporting period. Where necessary, the
forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
Interest rate swap is used to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating interest rate exposure. In the current
financial year, the Group entered into an interest rate swap with nominal value of RM15,396,000 (2023: RM14,812,000)
to hedge the cash flow risk in relation to the floating interest rate of a bank loan.
12.1 Material accounting policy information
Derivatives are classified as fair value through profit or loss, and subsequently remeasured to fair value with
changes in fair value being recognised in profit or loss.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 227
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss:
Money market fund 99,944 155,790 98,865 144,999
14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 56,826 22,920 13,108 6,851
Deposits placed with licensed banks 1,341 50 – –
58,167 22,970 13,108 6,851
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital
Group/Company
Group/Company
Number of ordinary shares
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024 2023
Issued and fully paid shares with
no par value classified as equity
instruments:
Ordinary shares:
At 1 April 381,071 380,607 1,858,239,237 1,857,954,837
Shares issued under business
acquisition 15.1 17,632 – 13,158,000 –
Shares issued under ESOS 852 464 522,800 284,400
At 31 March 399,555 381,071 1,871,920,037 1,858,239,237
Farm Fresh Berhad
228
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Reserves
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-distributable
Translation reserve 186 (6,634) – –
Employee share-based reserve 5,615 3,642 5,615 3,642
Other reserve (36,955) – – –
(31,154) (2,992) 5,615 3,642
Distributable
Retained earnings 298,012 252,926 101,383 94,953
266,858 249,934 106,998 98,595
15.1 Shares issued under business acquisition
On 31 May 2023, the Company has issued 13,158,000 ordinary shares as part of the purchase considerations
for acquisition of the ordinary shares in The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (“TISSB”) (“TISSB shares”) at the fair value
of consideration of RM1.34 per ordinary share.
15.2 Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled
to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. In respect of the Company’s treasury shares that are held
by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.
15.3 Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than RM.
15.4 Employee share-based reserve
Employee share-based reserve represents cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of
share options.
When the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital. When
the share options expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 229
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
15.5 Equity settled share-based transaction
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 21 March 2022, the Company’s shareholders approved the
establishment of an Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS) of not more than 15% of the issued and paid-up
ordinary share capital of the Company to eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The terms and conditions relating to the grants of new share option programme are as follows; all options are
to be settled by physical delivery of shares:
Grant date
Number of
options
(’000)
Vesting conditions
Contractual
life of options
First grant 21 March 2022 33,380 Malaysian employees
Vest over 3 years
Australian employees 25% of the
options for first and second
calendar year 50% of the options
issued for third calendar year
10 years
Second grant 11 May 2023 4,482 Vest over 3 years 10 years
The number and weighted average exercise prices of the share options are as follows:
Number of options (‘000)
Date of offer Exercise price
Balance as at
beginning of
the financial
year Granted Exercised
Outstanding
as at end
of the
financial
year
31 March 2024
First grant 21 March 2022 RM1.35 22,034 – (523) 21,511
Second grant 11 May 2023 RM1.46 – 2,171 – 2,171
31 March 2023
First grant 21 March 2022 RM1.35 – 22,318 (284) 22,034
The options outstanding at 31 March 2024 have an exercise price for first grant of RM1.35 (2023: RM1.35) and
second grant of RM1.46 (2023: Not applicable) and a weighted average contractual life of first grant is 8 years
(2023: 9 years) and second grant is 9 years (2023: Not applicable) respectively.
Farm Fresh Berhad
230
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
15.6 Fair value of share options and assumptions
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share
options granted, measured based on a binomial lattice model with the following inputs:
First grant
Granted on
21 March 2022
Second grant
Granted on
11 May 2023
Fair value at grant date RM0.28 RM0.30
Share price at grant date RM1.35 RM1.46
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility) 12.12% 12.46%
Option life (expected weighted average life) 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends 2.50% 2.50%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysian Government Securities) 3.735% 3.724%
15.7 Value of employee services received for issue of share options
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
First grant 1,755 3,722 347 764
Second grant 364 – 58 –
Total expense recognised as equity settled
share-based transactions 2,119 3,722 405 764
15.8 Put option reserve
Put option reserve relates to Shareholders’ Agreement (“SHA”) entered by the Company with the non-controlling
shareholder of TISSB which give rise to an obligation by the Company to purchase TISSB’s equity interest held
by non-controlling shareholder as detailed in Note 18.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 231
16. DEFERRED INCOME
Group/Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Government grant received
At 1 April/31 March 8,011 8,011
Less: Amortisation
At 1 April (1,514) (1,243)
Charge for the year (271) (271)
At 31 March (1,785) (1,514)
6,226 6,497
Carrying amounts of government grant
Non-current 5,955 6,226
Current 271 271
6,226 6,497
The balances consist of government grants as follow:
– For the project of rehabilitation and replanting of pasture and fodder at the farm in Muadzam Shah. The grant
is being amortised over useful life of the paddock;
– For the construction of the building and related infrastructure for milk processing plant at the plant in Muadzam
Shah. The grant is being amortised over useful life of the milk processing plant; and
– For the implementation of Napier production projects as a sub-project to national dairy industry development
project at Muadzam Shah. The grant is being amortised over useful life of the milk plant.
16.1 Material accounting policy information
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance
that they will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant; they are
then recognised in profit or loss as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset.
Farm Fresh Berhad
232
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current
Unsecured
Sukuk 300,000 200,000 300,000 200,000
Secured
Hire purchase liabilities 7,452 13,284 – –
Term loans 30,913 30,034 1,473 1,891
338,365 243,318 301,473 201,891
Current
Unsecured
Sukuk 3,366 2,487 3,366 2,487
Secured
Hire purchase liabilities 7,254 6,899 – –
Short-term financing 1,405 981 – –
Term loans 640 403 428 403
Bankers’ acceptances 54,983 67,404 3,659 3,585
Revolving credits – 14,760 – 14,760
67,648 92,934 7,453 21,235
406,013 336,252 308,926 223,126
Security
All the term loans, bankers’ acceptance and revolving credits are secured by:
i) Group’s land and buildings and right-of-use assets as disclosed in Notes 3 and 4 respectively; and
ii) Corporate guarantee by the Company and a subsidiary.
Significant covenants
Certain borrowings are subject to the following covenants:
i) Debt-to-equity ratio of the Group shall not exceed 1.0 times.
ii) External total borrowed funds against EBITDA of the Group shall not exceed 4.50 times.
iii) Debt-to-capitalisation ratio of the Australian’s subsidiaries shall not exceed 0.50 times.
iv) EBITDA interest cover ratio of the Australian’s subsidiaries shall not less than 2.50 times.
v) Debt-to-equity ratio of a subsidiary shall not exceed 1.25 times.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 233
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
Sukuk
The Group and the Company have established a Sukuk Wakalah Programme (“Sukuk”) of RM1.0 billion in nominal
value on 18 May 2021, pursuant to which it has issued a RM200 million Sukuk (Sukuk 1) on 28 May 2021 with a
maturity date of 28 May 2026. During the financial year, the Group and the Company issued RM100 million Sukuk
(Sukuk 2) on 27 June 2023 with a maturity date on 27 June 2028. The profit rate of Sukuk 1 and Sukuk 2 is 3.72%
(2023: 3.72%) and 4.46% (2023: Not applicable) per annum respectively, and payable semi-annually.
Hire purchase liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities are payable as follows:
Group
Future
minimum
lease
payments
RM’000
Interest
RM’000
Present
value of
minimum
lease
payments
RM’000
2024
Less than one year 7,894 640 7,254
Between one and five years 7,657 205 7,452
15,551 845 14,706
2023
Less than one year 7,329 430 6,899
Between one and five years 13,559 275 13,284
20,888 705 20,183
18. PUT OPTION LIABILITY
Group
2024
RM’000
At 1 April –
Initial recognition at put option date 34,509
Changes in put option liability 2,446
At 31 March 36,955
As disclosed in Note 15, the Company entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement (“SHA”) with the non-controlling
interests of The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (“TISSB”) which grants the non-controlling shareholder the right to require
the Company to purchase their equity interest in TISSB in accordance to the terms of the SHA upon occurrence of
any triggering events or annually commencing from the 3rd anniversary of the SHA’s completion date.
Farm Fresh Berhad
234
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
18. PUT OPTION LIABILITY (CONTINUED)
Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to put option liability
The present value of the provision for put liability is estimated based on the expected equity value of TISSB, which
can be executed by a non-controlling shareholder over its equity interest on the 3rd anniversary of the SHA’s
completion date.
While the provision is based on the best estimate on anticipated earnings, there is uncertainty regarding the
consideration payable to the non-controlling shareholder. The estimates are reviewed on an annual basis or when
there is an indication of a material change in circumstances.
Material accounting policy information
The Group granted put option to the non-controlling interest in certain subsidiary over its equity interests in the
subsidiary which provide settlement in cash by the Group. The Group recognises a liability for the present value of
the exercise price of the options. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the Group recognises the changes in the
carrying amount in the financial liability in equity.
19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Trade payables 31,988 24,428 6,624 3,603
Other payables 32,854 20,668 7,759 6,226
Accrued expenses 27,174 18,212 7,800 6,058
Due to Directors 859 834 – –
92,875 64,142 22,183 15,887
The amounts due to Directors are non-trade in nature, interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
20. REVENUE
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers
– Sales of goods 801,431 621,607 362,969 285,978
– Revenue from agrotourism 8,488 8,084 – –
– Royalty and franchise fees 492 – – –
810,411 629,691 362,969 285,978
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 235
20. REVENUE (CONTINUED)
20.1 Disaggregation of revenue
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Timing of recognition
– At a point in time 809,919 629,691 362,969 285,978
– Over time 492 – – –
810,411 629,691 362,969 285,978
20.2 Nature of goods and services
The following information reflects the typical transactions of the Group:
Nature of goods or
services
Timing of recognition
or method used to
recognise revenue
Significant payment
terms
Variable elements in
consideration
Manufacturing and
distribution of cow’s and
goat’s milk related
products, yogurt and
plant-based ice-cream
and other related
products
Revenue is recognised
when the goods are
delivered and accepted
by the customers
Credit period ranging
from 7 to 75 days from
invoice date or month-
end date
Cash term for certain
beverage and ice-cream
products
Sales incentives and
other sales related
expenses are given to
customers where the
customers meet sales
target or based on the
agreed advertising and
promotional activities
Revenue from
agrotourism
Revenue is recognised
when the goods are
delivered and accepted
by the customers
Cash term Not applicable
Royalty fees charged
from licensing the
“Jomcha” and “Inside
Scoop” brand for sale
and distribution of the
products as defined in
the licensee agreement;
whereas the franchise
fee charged from
rendered of “Jomcha”’s
licensing for a term of 5
years
Revenue is recognised
on an accrual basis
based on the
contractual royalty rate
applied to the licensee’s
underlying product
sales, whereas franchise
fee is amortised for 5
years on monthly basis
Credit period of 30 days
from invoice date
Not applicable
The revenue from contracts with customers of the Group are not subject to obligation for returns or refunds
and warranty.
The Group applies the practical expedients for exemption on disclosure of information on remaining
performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
The revenue generated by the Group is predominantly from Malaysia.
Farm Fresh Berhad
236
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
21. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Interest income on net investment in lease 42 57 – –
Other finance income 895 416 2,997 2,890
937 473 2,997 2,890
22. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Interest expense on lease liabilities 1,199 351 267 187
Other finance costs 15,681 11,588 11,563 8,656
Total finance costs 16,880 11,939 11,830 8,843
Less: Accrual of profit/finance costs (4,565) (2,838) (3,633) (2,674)
Add: 
Accrual of profit/finance costs
brought forward paid in current year 2,487 2,487 2,487 2,487
Interest paid 14,802 11,588 10,684 8,656
23. TAX EXPENSE
23.1 Recognised in profit or loss
Major components of income tax expense include:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current tax expense
– Current year 1,770 670 222 214
– (Over)/Under provision
in prior years (555) 271 (114) 143
1,215 941 108 357
Deferred tax expense
– 
Origination and reversal of
temporary differences 4,883 1,446 2,281 764
– 
Over provision in
prior years (314) (147) (78) (28)
4,569 1,299 2,203 736
5,784 2,240 2,311 1,093
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 237
23. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
23.2 Reconciliation of tax expense
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit before tax 69,065 52,174 27,460 26,053
Income tax calculated using
Malaysian tax rate of 24% 16,576 12,522 6,590 6,253
Non-deductible expenses 3,991 1,486 502 232
Non-taxable income (1,764) (911) (1,576) (893)
Tax incentive 9 (11,609) (12,236) (3,013) (4,614)
Effect of unrecognised deferred
tax assets 3 1,001 – –
Effect of different tax rate in
foreign jurisdictions (544) 254 – –
6,653 2,116 2,503 978
(Over)/Under provided in prior
years (869) 124 (192) 115
Tax expense 5,784 2,240 2,311 1,093
Farm Fresh Berhad
238
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
24. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Group Company
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit for the year is arrived at after
charging/(crediting)
Audit fees:
– KPMG PLT (recurring) 383 277 120 110
– KPMG PLT (non-recurring) 102 – 82 –
– Member firm of KPMG
	  International Limited 37 – – –
– Other auditor 396 222 – –
Non-audit fees:
– KPMG PLT
– Review of interim financial information 248 248 248 248
– Review of Statement of Risk
Management and Internal Control 10 10 10 10
– Agreed upon procedure 1 – – –
– 
Local affiliates of KPMG PLT
– Tax services and financial due diligence 492 314 365 20
– Other auditor
– Tax services 161 135 – –
Depreciation and amortisation:
– property, plant and equipment 40,165 31,064 14,360 11,465
– intangible assets 263 235 16 14
– right-of-use assets 8,158 1,928 192 150
Equity settled share-based payment 2,070 3,653 405 764
Impairment loss on trade receivables 1,195 269 848 111
Bad debts written off 398 – – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 510 8 – –
Reversal of obsolete and slow-moving
inventories (614) (175) (265) (54)
Gain/(Loss) on disposal of property, plant
and equipment (867) (299) 6 –
Gain on derecognition of lease (30) – – –
Gain from a bargain purchase – (134) – –
Amortisation of deferred income (271) (271) (271) (271)
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss (318) (580) (18) 54
Personnel expenses (including
key management personnel):
– contribution to state plans 6,510 4,729 1,240 1,053
– wages, salaries and others 82,864 57,722 17,737 14,100
Rental income from subleasing of property 3 (1,713) (1,347) – –
Expenses relating to short-term leases a 4,018 4,487 – 60
Expenses relating to leases of low-value
assets a 420 130 31 12
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 239
24. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR (CONTINUED)
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit for the year is arrived at after
charging/(crediting) (continued)
Fair value (gain)/loss of:
– derivatives financial instruments (1,922) 2,486 (149) 145
– other investments (2,367) (2,457) (2,139) (2,169)
Distribution income from money market
investments (2,787) (3,738) (2,727) (3,722)
Loss/(Gain) arising from changes in fair
value of dairy cows and goats:
– Malaysian Farm 388 718 3,094 1,349
– Australian Farm (890) (828) – –
Note a Short-term and/or leases of low-value items
The Group and the Company lease office and office equipment with contract terms of 1 to 2 years. These leases
are short-term and/or leases of low-value items. The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-
of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases.
25. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 March 2024 was based on the profit attributable to
ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, calculated as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners 63,530 50,079
Weighted average number of ordinary shares are determined as follows:
2024 2023
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (‘000) 1,869,695 1,858,239
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 3.40 2.69
Farm Fresh Berhad
240
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
25. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE (CONTINUED)
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 March 2024 was based on profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effects of
all dilutive potential ordinary shares, calculated as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners (diluted) 63,530 50,079
2024
’000
2023
‘000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic) 1,869,695 1,858,239
Effect of share options in issue – 3,673
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 1,869,695 1,861,912
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 3.40 2.69
The average market value of the Company’s shares for the purpose of calculating the dilutive effect of share options
was based on the quoted market prices for the period during which the options are outstanding.
26. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Group/Company are:
Sen per share
Total amount
RM’000
Date
of payment
2024
Final 2023 1.00 18,719 10 October 2023
2023
Final 2022 1.07 19,880 15 September 2022
After the end of the reporting period, the following dividend was proposed by the Directors. This dividend will be
recognised in subsequent financial period:
Sen per share
RM
Total amount
RM
Final dividend 2024 1.20 22.5 million
The final dividend will be recognised in the subsequent financial period upon approval by the shareholders of the
Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 241
27. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has two reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The
strategic business units are in different geographies and are managed separately because they require different
marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) (i.e. the
Group’s Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer) reviews internal management reports at least on a
quarterly basis. The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s reportable segments:
• Malaysia’s operation 
Includes rearing of dairy cows and goats; and production, marketing and sale of cow’s
and goat’s milk, yogurt, plant-based, ice-cream and other related products; and
agrotourism.
• Australia’s operation 
Includes rearing of dairy cows, production and marketing and sale of cow’s milk, jam,
sauces, butter and yogurt.
Performance is measured based on segment profit or loss before tax, finance income, finance costs, depreciation
and amortisation, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by CODM. Segment profit is
used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the
results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Segment assets and liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provided
regularly to the Group Managing Director. Hence, no disclosure is made on segment assets and liabilities.
Malaysia's
operation
RM’000
Australia's
operation
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2024
Segment profit/(loss) 77,928 (8,863) 69,065
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 700,576 109,835 810,411
Depreciation and amortisation (39,747) (8,839) (48,586)
Finance costs (13,628) (3,252) (16,880)
Finance income 937 – 937
Information provided to Group Managing Director
Additions to non-current assets other than financial
instruments and deferred tax assets* 108,202 34,388 142,590
2022
Segment profit/(loss) 56,372 (4,198) 52,174
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 537,930 91,761 629,691
Depreciation and amortisation (25,043) (8,184) (33,227)
Finance costs (9,527) (2,412) (11,939)
Finance income 281 192 473
Information provided to Group Managing Director
Additions to non-current assets other than financial
instruments and deferred tax assets* 123,509 31,196 154,705
* Excluding acquisition of subsidiaries during the year
Farm Fresh Berhad
242
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
27. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical location
of customers.
Revenue
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Malaysia 670,960 517,913
Australia 109,835 91,761
Singapore 28,973 19,320
Brunei 643 697
Total 810,411 629,691
Major customers
There is no individual customer with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue during the
year and prior year.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 243
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
28.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments of the Group and the Company categorised as
follows:
(a) Amortised cost (“AC”)
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2024
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments
and advance payment) 156,518 156,518 –
Cash and cash equivalents 58,167 58,167 –
Derivative financial assets 893 – 893
Other investments 99,944 – 99,944
315,522 214,685 100,837
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (406,013) (406,013) –
Trade and other payables (92,875) (92,875) –
(498,888) (498,888) –
2023
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments
and advance payment) 112,064 112,064 –
Cash and cash equivalents 22,970 22,970 –
Derivative financial assets 685 – 685
Other investments 155,790 – 155,790
291,509 135,034 156,475
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (336,252) (336,252) –
Trade and other payables (64,142) (64,142) –
Derivative financial liabilities (1,695) – (1,695)
(402,089) (400,394) (1,695)
Farm Fresh Berhad
244
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2024
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments
and advance payment) 59,091 59,091 –
Due from subsidiaries 261,480 261,480 –
Cash and cash equivalents 13,108 13,108 –
Derivative financial assets 7 – 7
Other investments 98,865 – 98,865
432,551 333,679 98,872
Financial liabilities*
Loans and borrowings (308,926) (308,926) –
Trade and other payables (22,183) (22,183) –
Due to subsidiaries (74,843) (74,843) –
(405,952) (405,952) –
2023
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments
and advance payment) 36,288 36,288 –
Due from subsidiaries 197,056 197,056 –
Cash and cash equivalents 6,851 6,851 –
Other investments 144,999 – 144,999
385,194 240,195 144,999
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (223,126) (223,126) –
Trade and other payables (15,887) (15,887) –
Due to subsidiaries (53,070) (53,070) –
Derivative financial liabilities (142) – (142)
(292,225) (292,038) (142)
* Excludes liabilities on put option granted to non-controlling interest
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 245
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Net gains/(losses) on:
Financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9 7,076 6,187 5,015 5,891
Financial liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9 – (2,478) – (145)
Financial assets at AC (340) 692 2,167 2,779
Financial liabilities at AC (15,505) (11,489) (11,564) (8,710)
(8,769) (7,088) (4,382) (185)
28.3 Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
28.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its
receivables from customers. In addition, the Company has exposure to credit risk arising from advances to
subsidiaries and financial guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to subsidiaries. There are no
significant changes as compared to prior period.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting period, the Group and the Company assess whether any of the trade receivables are credit
impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or full) when
there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company
determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could
still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to prior period.
Farm Fresh Berhad
246
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no significant concentrations of credit risk and maximum
exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables, amounts due from subsidiaries are represented by the
carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group maintains separate ageing analysis in respect of trade
receivables.
The management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor
impaired are measured at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular
customers that have been transacting with the Group and the Company. The Group and the Company use
ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the receivables. The Group and the Company grant credit
period ranging from 7 to 75 days from invoice date or month-end date. Hence, any receivables having
significant balances past due more than 90 days, shall be considered as credit impaired and monitored
individually.
The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of trade
receivables.
Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable progressing
through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.
Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and the Company
also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historic data has
been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s and the Company’s view of economic conditions over
the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and the Company believe that these factors are
immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation for the year.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as
at the end of the reporting period which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk
nature.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 247
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Loss
allowance
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
2024
Current (not past due) 88,926 337 88,589
1 – 30 days past due 34,303 135 34,168
31 – 60 days past due 7,612 38 7,574
61 – 90 days past due 3,447 15 3,432
More than 90 days past due 5,853 17 5,836
140,141 542 139,599
Credit impaired
Individually impaired 1,555 1,555 –
141,696 2,097 139,599
2023
Current (not past due) 65,623 – 65,623
1 – 30 days past due 21,227 – 21,227
31 – 60 days past due 9,293 – 9,293
61 – 90 days past due 3,663 – 3,663
More than 90 days past due 2,230 72 2,158
102,036 72 101,964
Credit impaired
Individually impaired 584 584 –
102,620 656 101,964
Farm Fresh Berhad
248
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Company
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Loss
allowance
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
2024
Current (not past due) 30,875 184 30,691
1 – 30 days past due 15,894 94 15,800
31 – 60 days past due 5,400 32 5,368
61 – 90 days past due 1,858 11 1,847
More than 90 days past due 2,241 13 2,228
56,268 334 55,934
Credit impaired
Individually impaired 625 625 –
56,893 959 55,934
2023
Current (not past due) 18,490 – 18,490
1 – 30 days past due 7,404 – 7,404
31 – 60 days past due 2,972 – 2,972
61 – 90 days past due 1,581 – 1,581
More than 90 days past due 1,508 – 1,508
31,955 – 31,955
Credit impaired
Individually impaired 111 111 –
32,066 111 31,955
The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year are shown
below.
Group
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Credit
impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
At 1 April 2022 181 1 182
Acquisition of a subsidiary – 333 333
Net remeasurement of loss allowance (109) 378 269
Written off – (63) (63)
Exchange differences – (65) (65)
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 72 584 656
Acquisition of a subsidiary – 240 240
Net remeasurement of loss allowance 470 725 1,195
Exchange differences – 6 6
At 31 March 2024 542 1,555 2,097
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 249
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Company
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Credit
impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
At 1 April 2022 – – –
Net remeasurement of loss allowance – 111 111
At 31 March 2023/1 April 2023 – 111 111
Net remeasurement of loss allowance 334 514 848
At 31 March 2024 334 625 959
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the reporting
period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statement of
financial position.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. In addition, some of the bank balances are insured
by government agencies. Consequently, the Group and the Company are of the view that the loss allowance
are not material and hence, it is not provided for.
Other receivables
Credit risks on other receivables include the deposits paid to suppliers and for utilities. The Group and the
Company monitor the exposure to credit risk on individual basis.
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position. There is no history of default on other receivables and there
is no indicator these other receivables may default. The Group and the Company also consider differences
between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historic data has been collected, (b) current
conditions and (c) the Group’s and the Company’s view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the
receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and the Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material
and hence, it is not provided for.
Farm Fresh Berhad
250
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to banks in respect of banking facilities granted to
certain subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments
made by the subsidiaries.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The maximum exposure to credit risk amounts to RM36,851,000 (2023: RM49,007,000) representing the
outstanding banking facilities of a subsidiary as at the end of the reporting period.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiary would default on repayment.
The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was not material.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when subsidiaries’ financial position
deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when the
subsidiaries are unlikely to repay their credit obligation to the bank in full.
The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal
information available.
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company does not recognise any allowance as they are categorised
as low risk.
Inter-company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company trades and provides unsecured advances to subsidiaries. The advances are repayable on
demand, except for advances of RM73,650,000 (2023: RM67,200,000) subject to an interest from 4.13% to
4.95% (2023: 4.13%) per annum on the monthly outstanding balances. The Company monitors the results of
the subsidiaries regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 251
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit risk (continued)
Inter-company balances (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company considers amounts due from subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes that there
is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial position deteriorates significantly. The
Company considers amounts due from subsidiaries to be credit impaired when the subsidiaries are unlikely
to repay its amount due to the Company in full.
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company does not recognise any loss allowance as they are
categorised under low risk.
Net investment in a lease
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group manages credit risk on net investment in a lease together with its leasing arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position.
There is no history of default on the investment in lease and there is no indicator this lease may default. The
Group also considers differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historic
data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the
expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group is of the view that the loss allowance is not material
and hence, it is not provided for.
28.5 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as
they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various
payables, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed
adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its
liabilities when they fall due.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at
significantly different amounts.
Farm Fresh Berhad
252
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities and
lease liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest rate/
coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2024
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Sukuk 303,366 3.72 – 4.46 338,318 11,852 11,844 314,622 –
Secured bankers’ acceptances 54,983 3.81 – 5.53 54,983 54,983 – – –
Secured hire purchase liabilities 14,706 1.96 – 5.67 15,551 7,894 6,748 909 –
Secured term loans 31,553 3.50 – 6.85 31,786 764 732 30,290 –
Trade and other payables 92,875 – 92,875 92,875 – – –
Lease liabilities 24,752 3.90 – 5.00 29,668 8,999 6,361 7,048 7,260
Short-term financing 1,405 0.00 – 6.15 1,405 1,405 – – –
Put option liability 36,955 9.45 45,247 – – 45,247 –
560,595 609,833 178,772 25,685 398,116 7,260
Derivative financial liabilities
Commodity future contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow – – 33,506 33,506 – – –
– Inflow (425) – (33,931) (33,931) – – –
Forward exchange contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow – – 217 217 – – –
– Inflow (7) – (224) (224) – – –
Interest rate swap (461) – (461) (461) – – –
559,702 608,940 177,879 25,685 398,116 7,260
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Sukuk 202,487 3.72 226,009 7,420 7,460 211,129 –
Secured bankers’ acceptances 67,404 3.83 – 4.68 67,404 67,404 – – –
Secured hire purchase liabilities 20,183 1.96 – 5.67 20,888 7,329 6,687 6,872 –
Secured term loans 30,437 5.38 – 6.60 30,814 535 535 29,744 –
Revolving credit 14,760 6.60 14,760 14,760 – – –
Trade and other payables 64,142 – 64,142 64,142 – – –
Lease liabilities 10,417 3.90 – 5.00 14,243 2,710 2,277 2,283 6,973
Short-term financing 981 0.00 – 4.39 981 981 – – –
410,811 439,241 165,281 16,959 250,028 6,973
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow (1,695) – 55,126 55,126 – – –
– Inflow – – (53,431) (53,431) – – –
Interest rate swap 685 – (685) (685) – – –
411,821 440,251 166,291 16,959 250,028 6,973
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 253
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest rate/
coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2024
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Sukuk 303,366 3.72 – 4.46 338,318 11,852 11,844 314,622 –
Due to subsidiaries 74,843 – 74,843 74,843 – – –
Trade and other payables 22,183 – 22,183 22,183 – – –
Lease liabilities 4,137 5.00 7,462 268 243 772 6,179
Secured bankers’ acceptances 3,659 3.81 – 3.85 3,659 3,659 – – –
Secured term loans 1,901 6.85 2,121 542 541 1,038 –
Financial guarantee* – – 36,851 36,851 – – –
410,089 485,437 150,198 12,628 316,432 6,179
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow – – 217 217 – – –
– Inflow (7) – (224) (224) – – –
410,082 485,430 150,191 12,628 316,432 6,179
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Sukuk 202,487 3.72 226,009 7,420 7,460 211,129 –
Due to subsidiaries 53,070 – 53,070 53,070 – – –
Trade and other payables 15,887 – 15,887 15,887 – – –
Lease liabilities 4,002 5.00 7,388 258 234 728 6,168
Secured bankers’ acceptances 3,585 3.83 – 4.05 3,586 3,586 – – –
Secured term loans 2,294 6.60 2,671 535 535 1,601 –
Revolving credit 14,760 6.60 14,760 14,760 – – –
Financial guarantee* – – 49,007 49,007 – – –
296,085 372,378 144,523 8,229 213,458 6,168
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow 142 – 5,075 5,075 – – –
– Inflow – – (4,933) (4,933) – – –
296,227 372,520 144,665 8,229 213,458 6,168
* 
The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is required to be settled in the event of a default and
the lenders, where applicable call on the Company to pay for a subsidiary.
Farm Fresh Berhad
254
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other
price risk that will affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are
denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities. The
currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Euro (“EUR”) and
Australian Dollar (“AUD”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company use forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge its foreign currency
risk. Most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the
reporting period. Where necessary, the forward contracts are rolled over at maturity. The Group and the
Company entered forward exchange contracts with notional contract amount of RM217,000 (2023:
RM55,126,000) and RM217,000 (2023: RM5,075,000) respectively in order to manage the foreign currency
exposures.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than the functional currency of the Group and
the Company are kept to an acceptable level.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 255
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currencies (a currency which is other than the functional
currency of Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
AUD
RM’000
Group
2024
Cash and cash equivalents 681 532 2 3
Trade and other receivables 309 5,248 – –
Trade and other payables (1,448) (33) (214) –
(458) 5,747 (212) 3
2023
Cash and cash equivalents 540 420 2 3
Trade and other receivables 817 4,271 – –
Trade and other payables (471) (47) (76) –
886 4,644 (74) 3
Company
2024
Cash and cash equivalents 252 2 – –
Trade and other receivables 309 185 – –
Trade and other payables (1,322) (33) (32) –
Due from subsidiaries – 228 – 36
(761) 382 (32) 36
2023
Cash and cash equivalents 13 2 – –
Trade and other receivables 631 201 – –
Trade and other payables (362) (21) (56) –
Due from a subsidiary – 178 – –
282 360 (56) –
Farm Fresh Berhad
256
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2023: 10%) strengthening of the Ringgit Malaysia against the following currencies at the end of the
reporting period would have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown
below. This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Group and the Company
considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period. This analysis assumes that all other
variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecasted shares and
purchases.
Profit or loss
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
USD 35 (67) 58 (21)
SGD (437) (353) (29) (27)
EUR 16 6 2 4
AUD – – (3) –
A 10% (2023: 10%) weakening of Ringgit Malaysia against the above currencies at the end of the reporting
period would have had equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on
the basis that all other variables remained constant.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s and Company’s investments in fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change
in their fair value due to changes in interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s variable rate borrowings
are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group has entered into interest rate swap with a notional contract amount of RM15,396,000 (2023:
RM14,812,000) in order to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate exposure at 31 March 2024,
the swap matures over the next five years following the maturity of a fixed rate bank loan of 1.05% and has
a floating swap rate of AUD Bank Bill Swap Rate (“BBSY”) – 1 month.
The Group does not design the interest rate swap as the hedge instrument.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 257
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk (continued)
Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments and
lease liabilities, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets 2,056 1,125 73,650 67,200
Financial liabilities (365,143) (277,599) (307,025) (206,072)
Lease liabilities (24,752) (10,417) (4,137) (4,002)
(387,839) (286,891) (237,512) (142,874)
Floating rate instruments
Financial liabilities (40,870) (58,653) (1,901) (17,054)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not
affect profit or loss.
(b) Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 100 basis point (“bp”) in interest rate at the end of the reporting period would have decreased
equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other
variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Profit or loss
Group Company
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
2024
Floating rate instruments (311) 311 (14) 14
2023
Floating rate instruments (446) 446 (130) 130
Farm Fresh Berhad
258
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk (continued)
Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to price fluctuation risk on commodities mainly of milk powder.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The prices of the commodities are subject to fluctuations due to uncontrollable factors such as weather, global
demand and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Group mitigates the risk to the price
volatility through hedging in the futures market.
Commodity price risk sensitivity analysis
A change of 10% on the commodities price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased equity
and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables remain
constant.
Profit or loss
Group
10%
increase
RM’000
10%
decrease
RM’000
2024
Commodity future contracts (32) 32
Other price risk
Price risk arises from the Group’s and the Company’s investments money market funds.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management of the Group and the Company monitor the other investments on portfolio basis.
The Group and the Company invest in money market funds which seek to invest in money market instruments
and deposit with licensed financial institution for reasonable rate of return on income while maintaining capital
stability.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 259
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.6 Market risk (continued)
Other price risk
Price risk sensitivity analysis
Money market funds
The fund is invested in money market instruments and deposited with licensed financial institution. The net
asset value (“NAV”) of the money market mainly depends on the performance of the financial instruments
which is affected by changes in the market interest rate.
At the end of the reporting period, with all the variables held constant, a change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in
the interest rate would have increased/(decreased) equity for investments classified as post-tax profit or loss
for investment classified as fair value through profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
Profit or loss
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
2024
100bp increase 999 987
100bp decrease (999) (987)
2023
100bp increase 1,558 1,450
100bp decrease (1,558) (1,450)
28.7 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short term receivables, payables, short term borrowings
and put option liability approximate fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial
instruments.
Farm Fresh Berhad
260
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.7 Fair value information (continued)
The table below analyses other financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value
for which fair value is disclosed, together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements
of financial position.
Fair value of financial
instruments carried at
fair value
Fair value
of financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
Group
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2024
Financial assets
Commodity future contracts 425 – – 425 425
Forward exchange contracts 7 – – 7 7
Interest rate swap 461 – – 461 461
Other investments 99,944 – – 99,944 99,944
100,837 – – 100,837 100,837
Financial liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities – – (14,916) (14,916) (14,706)
Term loans – – (31,734) (31,734) (31,553)
Sukuk – – (303,366) (303,366) (303,366)
Put option liability – (36,955) – (36,955) (36,955)
– (36,955) (350,016) (386,971) (386,580)
Fair value
of financial
instruments
carried at
fair value
Fair value
of financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
Group
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Financial assets
Interest rate swap 685 – 685 685
Other investments 155,790 – 155,790 155,790
156,475 – 156,475 156,475
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts (1,695) – (1,695) (1,695)
Hire purchase liabilities – (19,204) (19,204) (20,183)
Term loans – (30,777) (30,777) (30,437)
Sukuk – (202,487) (202,487) (202,487)
(1,695) (252,468) (254,163) (254,802)
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 261
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
28.7 Fair value information (continued)
Fair value
of financial
instruments
carried at
fair value
Fair value
of financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Total
fair value
Carrying
amount
Company
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2024
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts 7 – 7 7
Other investments 98,865 – 98,865 98,865
98,872 – 98,872 98,872
Financial liabilities
Term loans – (2,083) (2,083) (1,901)
Sukuk – (303,366) (303,366) (303,366)
– (305,449) (305,449) (305,267)
2023
Financial assets
Other investments 144,999 – 144,999 144,999
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts (142) – (142) (142)
Term loans – (2,634) (2,634) (2,294)
Sukuk – (202,487) (202,487) z(202,487)
(142) (205,121) (205,263) (204,923)
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts, commodity future contracts and interest rate swaps are
estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price
for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
Money market funds
The fair value of money market funds is determined based on other data values or market price.
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as
well as the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
(a) Financial instruments not carried at fair value
Type Description of valuation technique and inputs used
Term loans and hire purchase
liabilities
Discounted cash flows using a rate based on the current market rate of
borrowing of the respective Group entities at the reporting date.
Farm Fresh Berhad
262
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
29. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current year’s addition 105,976 117,834 32,737 24,507
Less: 
Property, plant and equipment
  acquired from hire purchase
liabilities – (6,229) – –
Less: Share based payment capitalised (10) (93) – –
105,966 111,512 32,737 24,507
30. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base to fund its growth and safeguard
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group’s capital is represented by its total equity in the
statement of financial position.
The Directors monitor the adequacy of capital on an ongoing basis, whilst maintaining optimal debt-to-equity ratio
that complies with debt covenants. The Group is required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 1.0
times in accordance with the specified formulas as stated in the respective facility agreement and trust deed.
The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 were as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Total loans and borrowings (Note 17) 406,013 336,252
Lease liabilities 24,752 10,417
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 14) (58,167) (22,970)
Net debt 372,598 323,699
Total equity (including NCI) 692,971 635,902
Debt-to-equity ratio 0.54 0.51
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Capital expenditure commitment
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for 7,044 22,243 397 10,905
Intangible assets
Contracted but not provided for 288 163 288 163
7,332 22,406 685 11,068
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 263
32. CONTINGENT ASSETS
On 31 March 2021, the Group has filed a legal action in Australia against Shepparton Partners Collective Group for
various misrepresentations to The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd during the course of due diligence of
the business acquisition.
As at 31 March 2024, the case is still ongoing, and in the Directors’ opinion, disclosure of any further information
about the above matter would be prejudicial to the interests of the Group.
33. RELATED PARTIES
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated terms. The
significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company are shown below. The balances related to the
below transactions are shown in Notes 8, 10 and 19.
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
A. Subsidiaries
Sales of raw milk – – 1,475 –
Sales of goods – – 59,578 64,261
Sales of biological assets – – – 11,540
Sales of property, plant and equipment – – 1,231 418
Purchase of goods – – (10,962) (2,437)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – – (557) (380)
Commission payable – – (644) –
Loan to subsidiaries – – 6,450 –
Loan interest income – – 2,802 2,775
Management fee income – – 414 360
B. Key management personnel
Directors
Fees 614 629 614 629
Remuneration 377 1,087 – –
Other key management personnel
Remuneration 6,052 4,027 359 338
C. Non-controlling shareholder in a
subsidiary
Purchase of biological assets and other
animal health related products – 13,970 – 13,970
D. Companies connected to Directors
Short-term lease 12 12 – –
Farm Fresh Berhad
264
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
34. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES
34.1 The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd.
On 31 May 2023, the Group had entered into a business purchase agreement to acquire 65% equity interest
in The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (“TISSB”) at a total purchase consideration of RM81.6 million via a cash
consideration of RM64.0 million and the issuance of RM17.6 million consideration shares. The transaction was
completed on 31 May 2023. The company is involved in selling ice-cream products. The acquisition of TISSB
is to facilitate the Group’s entry into the consumer-packaged goods ice-cream market. For the 10 months up
to 31 March 2024, the subsidiary contributed revenue of RM40,160,000 and profit of RM3,418,000. If the
acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2023, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been
RM47,697,000 and consolidated profit for the financial year would have been RM3,684,000. In determining
these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose
on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2023.
The following summarise the consideration paid and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the acquisition date:
Group
RM’000
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Property, plant and equipment 9,489
Right-of-use assets 10,397
Inventories 1,290
Current tax assets 420
Cash and cash equivalents 26,573
Trade and other receivables 4,601
Trademark/Brand 23,182
Deferred tax liabilities (6,238)
Loan and borrowings (1,046)
Lease liabilities (11,066)
Trade and other payables (2,384)
Fair value of identifiable net assets 55,218
Purchase consideration settled in cash and cash equivalents 63,982
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (26,573)
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary 37,409
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amount due of RM1,150,000 which is expected to
be fully collectible at the acquisition date.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 265
34. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
34.1 The Inside Scoop Sdn. Bhd. (continued)
Fair value measurement
Assets acquired Valuation technique
Trademark/Brand Relief from royalty method: the value of the core trademark/brand are
estimated by discounting projected royalty savings from which TISSB is
realised by virtue of owning the asset.
Goodwill
Goodwill was recognised as a result of the acquisition as follows:
Group
RM’000
Total consideration transferred
– Cash 63,982
– Consideration shares 17,632
Fair value of identifiable net assets (55,218)
Non-controlling interest, based on their proportionated interest in the recognised amounts
of the assets and liabilities of the acquiree 19,326
Goodwill 45,722
The goodwill is attributable mainly to the technical know-how, ice-cream formulation expertise and the
synergies expected to be achieved.
Farm Fresh Berhad
266
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
34. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
34.2 Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd.
On 27 September 2023, the Group entered into a business purchase agreement to acquire 70% equity
interest in Sin Wah Ice Cream Sdn. Bhd. (“SWSB”) at a total purchase consideration of RM28.5 million, satified
in cash. The transaction was completed on 17 October 2023. The company is principally engaged in selling
ice-cream products. The acquisition of SWSB is to leverage on the logistic capabilities and distribution reach
of SWSB in order to facilitate the introduction of CPG ice-cream by the Group. In the 5 months to 31 March
2024, the subsidiary contributed revenue of RM10,275,000 and profit of RM1,736,000. If the acquisition had
occurred on 1 April 2023, management estimates that consolidated revenue would have been RM24,791,000
and consolidated profit for the financial year would have been RM4,133,000. In determining these amounts,
management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose on the date
of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2023.
The following summarise the consideration paid and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the acquisition date:
Group
RM’000
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Property, plant and equipment 3,479
Right-of-use assets 368
Inventories 472
Cash and cash equivalents 1,616
Trade and other receivables 4,645
Current tax liabilities (530)
Deferred tax liabilities (347)
Hire purchase liabilities (787)
Lease liabilities (371)
Trade and other payables (1,069)
Fair value of identifiable net assets 7,476
Purchase consideration settled in cash and cash equivalents 28,350
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1,616)
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary 26,734
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amount due of RM4,616,000 of which RM240,000
was expected to be uncollectible at the acquisition date.
Goodwill
Goodwill was recognised as a result of the acquisition as follows
Group
RM’000
Total consideration transferred 28,350
Fair value of identifiable net assets (7,476)
Non-controlling interest, based on their proportionated interest in the recognised amounts
of the assets and liabilities of the acquiree 2,243
Goodwill 23,117
The goodwill is attributable to the logistic capabilities and distribution reach of SWSB in order to facilitate the
introduction of CPG ice-cream by the Group and the synergies expected to be achieved.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 267
34. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
34.3 The Provenance Creamery Pte Ltd
On 24 May 2022, the Company exercised the call option in respect of the entire issued and paid up share
capital of The Provenance Creamery Pte Ltd (“Provenance Creamery”) granted by Loh Ngat Mui at a
consideration of SGD1.00. Following the exercise of the call option, Provenance Creamery becomes the
Company’s wholly owned subsidiary. The company is involved in distribution and retail of dairy products. The
acquisition of The Provenance Creamery Pte Ltd has further expanded the Group’s operation into Singapore.
In the 10 months to 31 March 2023, the subsidiary contributed revenue of RM183,000 and loss of RM71,000.
The following summarise the consideration paid and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the call option date:
Group
RM’000
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Property, plant and equipment 6
Cash and cash equivalents 17
Other receivables 121
Other payables (10)
Fair value of identifiable net assets 134
Purchase consideration settled in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (17)
Net cash inflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary (17)
Total consideration transferred –
Fair value of identifiable net assets (134)
Gain on a bargain purchase (134)
Farm Fresh Berhad
268
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
34. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
34.4 St David Dairy Pty Ltd
On 31 August 2022, the Group had entered into a business purchase agreement with Maggie Beer Holdings
Ltd to acquire 90% equity interest in St David Dairy Pty Ltd at a total purchase consideration of RM3.2 million
via Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd. The transaction was completed on 31 August 2022. The company is
involved in selling cow’s milk, butter, yogurt, cream and cheese. The acquisition of St David Dairy Pty Ltd has
further expanded the Group’s operation into Australia. In the 7 months to 31 March 2023, the subsidiary
contributed revenue of RM12,743,000 and loss of RM2,647,000.
The following summarise the consideration paid and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the acquisition date:
Group
RM’000
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Property, plant and equipment 4,021
Inventories 797
Cash and cash equivalents 255
Trade and other receivables 2,390
Brand 236
Trade and other payables (2,833)
Hire purchase liabilities (1,355)
Fair value of identifiable net assets 3,511
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary
Purchase consideration paid by the Company 3,160
Capital contributed by a non-controlling shareholder 351
Purchase consideration settled in cash and cash equivalents 3,511
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (255)
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary 3,256
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amount due of RM2,723,000 of which RM333,000
was expected to be uncollectible at the acquisition date.
35. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
(a) On 9 July 2024, FFB has offered 8,280,000 Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS) options to eligible
employees of the Group with the terms and conditions as follows:
Grant date
Number of
options (’000)
Vesting
conditions
Contractual
life of options
9 July 2024 8,280 Vest over 3 years 10 years
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 269
Total Number of Issued Shares		 : 1,872,742,037
Class of Shares				 : Ordinary Shares
Number of Holders			 : 17,867
Voting Rights				 : One vote per share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Shareholdings No. of Shareholders % No. of Shares %
Less than 100 151 0.8451 1,981 0.0001
100 to 1,000 5,965 33.3856 3,522,975 0.1881
1,001 to 10,000 9,277 51.9225 39,968,511 2.1342
10,001 to 100,000 2,145 12.0054 59,570,472 3.1809
100,001 to 93,637,101* 325 1.8190 797,303,931 42.5741
93,637,102 and above** 4 0.0224 972,374,167 51.9225
TOTAL 17,867 100.000 1,872,742,037 100.000
Notes:
* Less than 5% of issued shares
** 5% and above of issued shares
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
No. of Ordinary Shares
No. Name Direct Interest % Indirect Interest %
1. Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. 544,122,694 29.0549 – –
2. Agrifood Resources Holdings Sdn.
Bhd.
219,238,600 11.7068 – –
3. Khazanah Nasional Berhad – – 219,238,600[1] 11.7068
4. Employees Provident Fund Board 210,209,958 11.2247 – –
5. Farmchoice Foods Sdn. Bhd. 209,012,873 11.1608 – –
6. Kumpulan Wang Persaraan
(Diperbadankan)
63,585,400 3.3953 50,287,400[2] 2.6852
7. Loi Tuan Ee – – 753,135,567[3] 40.2157
8. Loi Foon Kion 2,672,600 0.1427 544,122,694[4] 29.0549
9. Abrdn Holdings Limited (formerly
known as Aberdeen Asset
Management PLC)
– – 124,109,100[5] 6.6271
10. Abrdn PLC – – 124,109,100[6] 6.6271
11. Abrdn Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. – – 122,709,500[7] 6.5524
Notes:
[1] Deemed interest by virtue of their shareholding in Agrifood Resources Holdings Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the
Act”)
[2] Deemed interest via KWAP’s Fund Manager
[3] Deemed interest by virtue of his shareholdings in Farmchoice Foods Sdn. Bhd. and Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
[4] Deemed interest by virtue of her shareholdings in Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
[5] Deemed interest through shares held by the registered holder who is a custodian appointed by one or more funds managed by one or more
subsidiaries of Abrdn Holdings Limited (formerly known as Aberdeen Asset Management PLC) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
[6] Deemed interest through shares held by the registered holder who is a custodian appointed by one or more funds managed by one or more
subsidiaries of Abrdn PLC pursuant to Section 8 of the Act..
[7] Deemed interest through shares held by the registered holder which is a custodian appointed by one or more funds managed by Abrdn Malaysia
Sdn Bhd.
Farm Fresh Berhad
270
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 3 July 2024
LIST OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
No. of Ordinary Shares
No. Name Direct Interest % Indirect Interest %
1. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat
Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji
Megat Khas
500,000 0.0267 – –
2. Loi Tuan Ee – – 753,135,567[1] 40.2157
3. Loi Foon Kion 2,672,600 0.1427 544,122,694[2] 29.0549
4. Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam
500,000 0.0267 – –
5. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 500,000 0.0267
6. Sukanta Kumar Dutt – – – –
7. Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly – – – –
Notes:
[1] Deemed interest by virtue of his shareholdings in Farmchoice Foods Sdn. Bhd. and Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
[2] Deemed interest by virtue of her shareholdings in Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name of Holders No. of Shares %
1. CIMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
CIMB FOR RAINFOREST CAPITAL SDN BHD (PB 400,000,000 21.3591
2. AGRIFOOD RESOURCES HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 219,238,600 11.7068
3. FARMCHOICE FOODS SDN BHD 209,012,873 11.1608
4. RAINFOREST CAPITAL SDN BHD 144,122,694 7.6958
5. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD 73,540,990 3.9269
6. LEMBAGA TABUNG HAJI 72,378,000 3.8648
7. KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) 61,904,400 3.3055
8. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERDEEN) 49,070,600 2.6203
9. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA 46,380,100 2.4766
10. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN)
(ABERDEEN) 38,122,000 2.0356
11. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ISLAMIC) 30,217,368 1.6135
12. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CAHAYA BINTANG LTD 23,633,900 1.2620
13. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PAMB FOR PRULINK EQUITY FUND 21,559,800 1.1512
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 271
No. Name of Holders No. of Shares %
14. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR
PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND 17,299,600 0.9238
15. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
URUSHARTA JAMAAH SDN BHD (2) 16,073,000 0.8583
16. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERISLAMIC) 15,840,100 0.8458
17. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
URUSHARTA JAMAAH SDN. BHD. (ABERDEEN 2) 12,219,900 0.6525
18. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (NOMURA) 11,000,000 0.5874
19. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA 3 – DIDIK 11,000,000 0.5874
20. PERMODALAN NASIONAL BERHAD 10,000,000 0.5340
21. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
TMF TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR AFFIN HWANG WHOLESALE EQUITY
FUND 2 9,500,000 0.5073
22. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR MERIT GLORY PTE LTD 9,000,000 0.4806
23. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC ISLAMIC ASEAN GROWTH FUND 8,519,600 0.4549
24. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (BNP NAJMAH EQ) 8,166,500 0.4361
25. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PBTB FOR TAKAFULINK DANA EKUITI 8,066,000 0.4307
26. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (CGS CIMB) 7,641,500 0.4080
27. AMANAH RAYA BERHAD
KUMPULAN WANG BERSAMA SYARIAH 7,540,100 0.4026
28. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) (ABDN EQ ABSR FD) 7,456,900 0.3982
29. EDMUND TAN JUN HUA 6,579,000 0.3513
30. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (F TEMPLETON) 6,518,100 0.3481
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 3 July 2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
272
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
 Location Description
Current
Use Tenure
Remaining
Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
Age of
Building
Approximate
Land Area
(sq.m.)
Net Book
Value
RM’000
11& 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
One single-storey
factory building and
two storey office
building
Processing facility
and Office
Leasehold
99 years
17 years
(expiring 23.10.2041)
37 years 3,836 2,922
Lot PT 12802, Mukim Batu Kurau,
Daerah Larut, Matang, 34010
Perak
Dairy farm, One
single-storey factory
building and two storey
office building
Farming, Processing
facility, Warehouse
and Office
Leasehold
3 years
1.5 years
(expiring 14.10.2025)
2 years 3,350,800 21,787
Plot D, KM6, Muadzam Shah, Jalan
Muadzam – Rompin,
26700, Pahang Darul Makmur
Dairy farm, One
single-storey factory
building and two storey
office building
Farming, Processing
facility, Warehouse
and Office
Leasehold
33 years
23 years
(expiring 04.04.2047)
6 years 4,472,550 21,088
PTD 2975, Batu 13,
Jalan Mersing,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
99 years
11 years
(expiring 04.01.2035)
– 1,905,890 8,666
PTD 1721, KM10,
Jalan Sedili Kecil,
Mukim Sedili Kecil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
30 years
24 years
(expiring 27.03.2048)
– 1,315,228 4,029
Lot 61314,
Bandar Baru Enstek,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan
Land Establishment of a
new manufacturing
hub
Freehold – – 32,590 19,855
315 Fidge Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 6,114,178 28,037
490 Neal Road & 515
Norton Road & 695
Norton Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 2,950,849 7,500
947 & 999 McEwan Road,
Kyabram, Victoria
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 1,204,900 11,406
85 McCormick Road,
Kyabram VIC 3620
Single storey factory
building
Processing facility,
Warehouse and
Office
Freehold – 3 years 69,978 28,787
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 273
LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES
MALAYSIA
AUSTRALIA
MUADZAM SHAH, PAHANG
Plot D, KM6, Jalan Rompin,
26700 Muadzam Shah, Pahang
UPM SERDANG, SELANGOR
Ladang 16, Bahagian Ternakan,
Taman Pertanian Universiti,
Universiti Putra Malaysia,
43400 Serdang, Selangor
KYABRAM, VICTORIA
85 McCormick Road, Kyabram,
Victoria 3620
Tel : +61(0)3 5852 1111
GREATER SHEPPARTON, VICTORIA
315 Fidge Road, Undera,
Victoria 3629
LARKIN, JOHOR
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
Tel : +607 232 3463, +607 232 8771
Fax : +607 232 7622
DESARU, JOHOR
PTD 1721, KM 10,
Jalan Sedili Kechil,
Mukim Sedili Kechil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
MAWAI, JOHOR
PTD 2975,
Mukim Ulu Sungai Sedili Besar,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
TAIPING, PERAK
PT 12802,
Mukim Batu Kurau,
Pondok Tanjung,
34010 Daerah Larut Matang, Perak
FITZROY, VICTORIA
16-18 St David St, Fitzroy,
Victoria 3065
HQ Office and
Processing Facility
Legends:
Farm and
Processing Facility
Farm
Processing
Facility
Farm Fresh Berhad
274
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
GROUP CORPORATE DIRECTORY
As at 30 June 2024
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Thirteenth Annual General Meeting (“13th AGM”) of Farm Fresh Berhad
(“Company”) will be conducted virtually through remote participation and electronic voting via the online
meeting platform at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 (Domain Registration Number registered with
MYNIC - D6A475992) on Wednesday, 25 September 2024 at 2.30 p.m., and at any adjournment thereof, for
the purpose of considering and if thought fit, passing with or without modifications the following resolutions:
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2024
together with Reports of the Directors’ and the Auditors’ thereon.
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
2. To note the retirement of Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt as Director who is not seeking for re-
election in accordance with Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the Company.
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2
3. To re-elect Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam as Director in accordance with
Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the Company.
Ordinary
Resolution 1
4. To approve the payment of a final single-tier dividend of 1.20 per ordinary share for the
financial year ended 31 March 2024.
Ordinary
Resolution 2
5. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM550,000.00 per annum for the period
from 1 April 2024 to the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.
Ordinary
Resolution 3
6. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM80,000.00 per annum to Non-
Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the period from 1 April 2024 to the next
AGM of the Company to be held in 2025
Ordinary
Resolution 4
7 To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary
Resolution 5
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:
8. AUTHORITY UNDER SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016 FOR THE
DIRECTORS TO ALLOT SHARES OR GRANT RIGHTS
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, the Directors be and are
hereby empowered to allot and issue shares in the Company, at any time, at such price, upon
such terms and conditions, for such purpose and to such person or persons whomsoever as
the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit provided that the aggregate number
of shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total issued shares/total
number of voting shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares) at the time of issue.
THAT the Directors be and are hereby also empowered to obtain the approval for the listing
of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
Ordinary
Resolution 6
9. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Companies Act 2016 and the Constitution of the Company
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
CHIN WAI YI (MAICSA 7069783) (SSM PC NO. 202008004409)
Company Secretary
Kuala Lumpur
Dated: 31 July 2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 275
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Businesses:
1. Item 1 of the Agenda
Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provisions of Section 340 of the Companies Act 2016 does
not require a formal approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda
is not put forward for voting.
2. Item 2 of the Agenda
Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt is due to retire at the 13th AGM pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the
Company. Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt has informed the Board of his intention not to seek for re-election at the 13th
AGM, hence he will retain office until the conclusion of the 13th AGM and retire in accordance with Clause 76(3) of
the Constitution of the Company.
3. Item 3 of the Agenda
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) have considered the performance and contribution of the
retiring Directors and have also assessed the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Director seeking for
re-election.
Based on the results of the Board Evaluation conducted for the financial year ended 31 March 2024, the performance
of the retiring Director was found to be satisfactory. In addition, the retiring Director had provided his annual
declaration/confirmation on his fitness and propriety as well as independence, where applicable.
Based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board supports the re-election of the Director based on the following
justifications:
Dato’ Dr. Quaza
Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam
: Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam fulfils the requirements of
independence set out in the MMLR of Bursa Securities. He remains objective and
independent in expressing his views and participating in Board’s deliberations and
decision-making process.
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam has exercised his due care and
carried out his professional duties proficiently during his tenure as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company.
4. Item 8 of the Agenda
The Ordinary Resolution 6 proposed under item 8 of the Agenda is to seek the shareholders’ approval of a new
general mandate for the issuance of shares by the Company under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
The mandate, if passed, will provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new
shares speedily in the Company up to an amount not exceeding in total ten per centum (10%) of the issued share
capital of the Company for purpose of funding the working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would
eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the
shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general
meeting, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Farm Fresh Berhad
276
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notes:
1. The 13th AGM of the Company will be conducted as a virtual meeting through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and
Voting (“RPV”) facilities. The Company has appointed KPMG Management & Risk Consulting Sdn. Bhd. as the Poll Administrator for the 13th AGM to
facilitate the RPV facilities via ConveneAGM at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024. Shareholders of the Company are required to register for
the 13th AGM not less than forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or at any adjournment thereof. (Please follow
the procedures as stipulated in the Administrative Details).
2. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at this 13th AGM may appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his(her)
behalf. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company, and a member may appoint any person to be his(her) proxy without limitation.
3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote at the 13th AGM, the appointment shall be invalid unless he(she) specifies
the proportion of his(her) holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depository) Act, 1991 (“SICDA”), he(she)
may appoint one (1) proxy in respect of each security account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said security
account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee holding ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
(1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect
of each omnibus account it holds.
An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the SICDA who is exempted from compliance with the provisions of
subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing by the appointer or an attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation,
whether under its seal or by an officer or attorney duly authorised.
7. The instrument appointing either a proxy, a power of attorney or other authorities, where it is signed or certified by a notary as a true copy shall be
deposited at the following manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding
the 13th AGM (no later than Monday, 23 September 2024 at 2.30 p.m.) or at any adjournment thereof, and in default the instrument of proxy shall
not be treated as valid:
(a) In hard copy form
The original instrument appointing a proxy (“Proxy form”) must be deposited at KPMG Management & Risk Consulting Sdn. Bhd. at Concourse,
KPMG Tower, No. 8, First Avenue, Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(b) By electronic means
The Proxy form can also be lodged electronically via ConveneAGM Meeting Platform at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 or by email
to support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my. Please follow the procedures provided in the Administrative Guide for the 13th AGM in order to deposit
the Proxy Form electronically.
8. The right of foreigners to vote in respect of deposited securities is subject to Sections 41(1)(e) and 41(2) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act, 1991; the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) (Foreign Ownership) Regulations 1996 and the Constitution of the Company.
9. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 13 September 2024 (General Meeting Record
of Depositors) shall be eligible to attend, speak and vote at this 13th AGM.
10. Any alteration in the Proxy Form must be initialed.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, all the resolution set out in the Notice of 13th AGM will be put to the vote by poll.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the 13th AGM and/or any adjournment thereof,
a member of the Company:
(i) consents to the collection, use and disclose of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and
administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the 13th AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and
the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the 13th AGM (including any adjournment thereof),
and in order for the Company (or its agent) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the
“Purposes”);
(ii) warrants that the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has
obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies), and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and
(iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses, and damages as a result of the
member’s breach of warranty
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 277
MODE OF MEETING
The Company will be conducting its forthcoming 13th AGM on a virtual basis through remote participation and electronic
voting (“RPEV”) facilities.
In line with the Practice 13.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, by conducting a virtual Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”), this would facilitate greater shareholder participation as it facilitates electronic voting and remote
shareholders’ participation. With the RPEV facilities, you may exercise your right as a member of the Company to
participate (including the right to pose questions to the Board of Directors and/or Management of the Company) and
vote at the 13th AGM. Alternatively, you may also appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy to attend and vote
on your behalf at the 13th AGM.
ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE AND VOTE
In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 13 September
2024 (General Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to participate the 13th AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to
participate and/or vote on his/her behalf.
FORM(S) OF PROXY
Shareholders who are unable to participate in our online AGM are encouraged to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting
as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the proxy form. Please take note that you must complete the proxy
form for the AGM should you wish to appoint proxy(ies).
The proxy form may be made in hard copy or by electronic means, not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the meeting, i.e. latest by 2.30 p.m., Monday, 23 September 2024 as follows:
(i) In hard copy form
The proxy form must be deposited at the office of our Administration and Polling Agent:
KPMG Management & Risk Consulting Sdn Bhd
Concourse, KPMG Tower,
No. 8, First Avenue, Bandar Utama,
47800 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Meeting Date : Wednesday, 25 September 2024
Time : 2.30 p.m.
Meeting Platform : ConveneAGM at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024
Mode of Communication : i. Submit questions to the Board prior to the 13th AGM via ConveneAGM
at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 or emailing to
support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my not later than 2.30 p.m., Monday, 23
September 2024
ii. Pose questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts at
ConveneAGM at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 during live
streaming of the 13th AGM
Online meeting platform : https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 (Domain Registration Number
registered with MYNIC - D6A475992)
Farm Fresh Berhad
278
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR
THE THIRTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(“13TH AGM”)
(ii) By electronic means
The proxy form can also be lodged electronically through ConveneAGM Meeting Platform at https://conveneagm.my/
farmfreshagm2024 or email to support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my.
You may follow the steps below to lodge electronic proxy via ConveneAGM Meeting Platform:-
• Go to https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024.
• Select “Register as Shareholder”.
• Fill out the form with the required information and select “Submit Registration”.
• A confirmation will be displayed after a successful registration.
• Check your email for the next step.
• Open the email from AGM@Convene (agmaccounts@conveneagm.com)
• Select “Verify Your Email”.
• After the email verification, you will be redirected to create your own personalised password.
• Sign in to https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024.
• Select “Fill Out proxy form”.
REVOCATION OF PROXY
If you have submitted your proxy form prior to the meeting and subsequently decide to participate at the meeting
yourself, please write in to support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my to revoke the appointment of your proxy(ies) at least
forty-eight (48) hours before the 13th AGM.
Alternatively, you may register for RPEV facility or appoint another proxy. In such an event, your earlier appointment of
proxy shall be revoked.
Please advise your proxy accordingly.
VOTING PROCEDURE
The voting procedure will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Company has appointed KPMG Management & Risk Consulting
Sdn. Bhd. (“KPMG”) as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of electronic voting (“e-voting”) and TGS TW PLT
as Independent Scrutineer to verify and validate the poll results.
During the AGM, the Chairman of the meeting will invite the poll Administrator to brief on the e-voting housekeeping
rules. The e-voting session will commence as soon as the Chairman call for the poll to be opened and until such time
when the Chairman announces the closure of the poll.
For the purposes of the virtual AGM, e-voting will be carried out via personal smart phones, tablets, or personal
computers/laptops.
Upon the conclusion of the e-voting session, the Independent Scrutineer will verify the poll results followed by declaration
by the chairman of the meeting whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.
PROCEDURES FOR RPEV FACILITIES
All shareholders including (i) individual shareholders; (ii) corporate shareholders; (iii) authorised nominees; and (iv) exempt
authorised nominees shall use the RPEV facility at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 to participate and vote
remotely at the 13th AGM.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 279
All shareholders who wish to participate at the 13th AGM are required to register online at ConveneAGM Meeting
Platform (https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024).
Registration for remote access will open from Wednesday, 31 July 2024 until the day of the 13th AGM on Wednesday,
25 September 2024.
Shareholders are encouraged to register at least forty eight (48) hours before the commencement of the 13th AGM to
allow some time for the Company to verify the shareholder status and to avoid any delay in registration.
Kindly follow the steps below or provided in the AGM User Guide at https://cdn.azeusconvene.com/wp-content/uploads/
brochures/Getting-Started-with-ConveneAGM.pdf on how to register online:-
Pre Meeting Day –
Registration for  
Shareholders and/or  
Corporate
Representatives
• Go to https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024.
• Select “Register as Shareholder”.
• Fill out the form with the required information and click to “Submit Registration”.
• A confirmation will be displayed after a successful registration.
• Check your email for the next step.
• Open the email from AGM@Convene (agmaccounts@conveneagm.com).
• Select “Verify Your Email”.
• After the email verification, you will be redirected to create your own personalised
password.
• Upon system verification against the Record of Depositors and Register of Members as at
18 September 2024, you will receive email from AGM@Convene indicating that your
registration is approved or rejected.
Please note that the corporate shareholders who require their corporate
representative to participate and vote at the AGM must deposit their certificate of
appointment of corporate representative to KPMG not later than Monday,
23 September 2024 at 2.30 p.m.
Pre Meeting Day –
Registration for
Proxyholders
• As Proxy, you will receive an email from AGM@Convene (agmaccounts@conveneagm.com)
once you are appointed by your shareholder.
• Open the email from AGM@Convene (agmaccounts@conveneagm.com).
• Select “Verify Your Email”.
• After the email verification, you will be redirected to create your own personalised
password.
Please note that in the event the shareholder who appointed you cannot be authenticated
against the Record of Depositors and Register of Members as at 18 September 2024, your
registration will not be valid.
Meeting Day –
Participation by
Shareholders, Proxies
and/or Corporate
Representatives during
AGM
• Login to https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024.
• Click to start live webcast.
• Proceed to ask question and/or vote when permissible.
Farm Fresh Berhad
280
S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ I n f o r m a t i o n
Administrative Guide for the Thirteenth Annual General Meeting (“13th AGM”)
NO VOUCHERS/DOOR GIFTS
There will be NO VOUCHER(S) OR ANY DOOR GIFT(S) for shareholders/proxies who participate in the AGM.
PRE-MEETING SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The shareholders may submit questions to the Company via ConveneAGM at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024
or e-mail to support_conveneAGM@kpmg.com.my not later than 2.30 p.m., Monday, 23 September 2024 prior to the
AGM to transmit questions to Board of Directors. The Chairman and Board of Directors will endeavour their best to
respond to the questions submitted by the shareholders which are related to the resolutions to be tabled at the AGM.
RECORDING OR PHOTOGRAPHY AT THE AGM
Strictly no recording or photography of the AGM proceedings is allowed.
ENQUIRY
Should you require any assistance on the RPEV facility, kindly contact KPMG, details as follows:
(a) For matters relating to proxy processing and eligibility to participate at the 13th AGM [During office hours on
Mondays to Fridays (except on public holidays) from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m].
Email		 : support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my
Telephone No. : 603-7721 7329/ 7954/ 7780
(b) For ConveneAGM Technical Support (available 24/7)
Toll Free No		 : 1 800 817 240
Email		 : support@conveneagm.com
Live Chat		 : Click on the chat icon at the bottom right side of https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the 13th AGM and/or any
adjournment thereof, a member of the Company:
(i) consents to the collection, use and disclose of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the
processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the 13th AGM (including
any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to
the 13th AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agent) to comply with any applicable laws,
listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”);
(ii) warrants that the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its
agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies), and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and
(iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses, and damages
as a result of the member’s breach of warranty
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 281
This page is intentionally left blank.
I/We, NRIC/Passport No.
of
contact no. email address being a member/members of Farm Fresh
Berhad (“Company”) hereby appoint the person(s) below as my/our proxy(ies) to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Thirteenth
Annual General Meeting (“13th AGM”) of the Company to be conducted virtually through remote participation and electronic voting via
the online meeting platform at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 (Domain Registration Number registered with MYNIC -
D6A475992) on Wednesday, 25 September 2024 at 2.30 p.m., and at any adjournment thereof, for the purpose of considering and if
thought fit, passing with or without modifications the following resolutions:
(FULL NAME IN BLOCK LETTERS)
(FULL ADDRESS)
Option Name of proxy(ies) NRIC/Registration No.
Email Address & Phone
Number
Proportion of shareholding to
be represented
(a) Appoint ONE proxy only (Please complete details of proxy below)
100%
(b) Appoint MORE THAN ONE proxy (Please complete details of proxies below)
Proxy 1 %
Proxy 2 %
100%
(c) The Chairman of the 13th AGM as my/our proxy and/or failing the above
proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf
*My/our *proxy/proxies shall vote as follows:-
Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate box provided to indicate how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not indicate how
you wish your proxy to vote on the Resolutions, the proxy shall vote at his/her discretion, or abstain from voting as the proxy thinks fit.
NO. RESOLUTIONS
FOR AGAINST
PROXY 1 PROXY 2 PROXY 1 PROXY 2
Ordinary
Resolution 1
To re-elect Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam as
Director in accordance with Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the
Company.
Ordinary
Resolution 2
To approve the payment of a final single-tier dividend of 1.20 per
ordinary share for the financial year ended 31 March 2024.
Ordinary
Resolution 3
To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM550,000.00
per annum for the period from 1 April 2024 to the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.
Ordinary
Resolution 4
To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM80,000.00
per annum to Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive
Directors for the period from 1 April 2024 to the next AGM of the
Company to be held in 2025
Ordinary
Resolution 5
To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company and
to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary
Resolution 6
To grant authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies
Act 2016 for the Directors to allot shares or grant rights.
Dated this  _______ day of _____________________ 2024
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Contact No: _________________________
IMPORTANT NOTE:
Please (i) tick [ ] either ONE of the option (a) or (b) for the number of proxy which you wish to appoint, (ii) complete the details of your
proxy/proxies and the proportion of your shareholding to be represented (if applicable), (iii) please tick [ ] option (c) if you would like
to appoint the Chairman of the 13th AGM as the proxy or failing the proxy to vote on your behalf and (iv) sign or execute this form.
FARM FRESH BERHAD
Registration No.: 201001010221 (894851-U)
PROXY FORM
Number of Shares Held CDS Account No.
Fold this flap for sealing
1st fold here
Then fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
GAP Advisory Sdn. Bhd.
[Registration No.: 202001042098 (1398419-T)]
E-10-4 Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
Notes:
1. The 13th AGM of the Company will be conducted as a virtual meeting through live streaming and online
remote voting via Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities. The Company has appointed KPMG
Management & Risk Consulting Sdn. Bhd. as the Poll Administrator for the 13th AGM to facilitate the
RPV facilities via ConveneAGM at https://conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024. Shareholders of the
Company are required to register for the 13th AGM not less than forty eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the meeting or at any adjournment thereof. (Please follow the procedures as
stipulated in the Administrative Details).
2. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at this 13th AGM may appoint a
proxy to attend, speak and vote on his(her) behalf. A proxy may but need not be a member of the
Company, and a member may appoint any person to be his(her) proxy without limitation.
3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote at the 13th AGM, the
appointment shall be invalid unless he(she) specifies the proportion of his(her) holdings to be
represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depository) Act, 1991 (“SICDA”), he(she) may appoint one (1) proxy in respect of each security
account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said security account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee holding ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no
limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
omnibus account it holds.
An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the SICDA who is
exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing by the appointer or an attorney duly authorised
in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, whether under its seal or by an officer or attorney duly
authorised.
7. The instrument appointing either a proxy, a power of attorney or other authorities, where it is signed
or certified by a notary as a true copy shall be deposited at the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 13th
AGM (no later than Monday, 23 September 2024 at 2.30 p.m.) or at any adjournment thereof, and in
default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid:
(a) In hard copy form
The original instrument appointing a proxy (“Proxy form”) must be deposited at KPMG
Management & Risk Consulting Sdn. Bhd. at Concourse, KPMG Tower, No. 8, First Avenue,
Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(b) By electronic means
The Proxy form can also be lodged electronically via ConveneAGM Meeting Platform at https://
conveneagm.my/farmfreshagm2024 or by email to support_conveneagm@kpmg.com.my.
Please follow the procedures provided in the Administrative Guide for the 13th AGM in order
to deposit the Proxy Form electronically.
8. The right of foreigners to vote in respect of deposited securities is subject to Sections 41(1)(e) and
41(2) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991; the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) (Foreign Ownership) Regulations 1996 and the Constitution of the Company.
9. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors
on 13 September 2024 (General Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to attend, speak
and vote at this 13th AGM.
10. Any alteration in the Proxy Form must be initialed.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, all the resolution set out in the
Notice of 13th AGM will be put to the vote by poll.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote
at the 13th AGM and/ or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company:
(i) consents to the collection, use and disclose of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its
agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of
proxies and representatives appointed for the 13th AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and
the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to
the 13th AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agent) to
comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the
“Purposes”);
(ii) warrants that the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s)
to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies), and/
or representative(s) for the Purposes; and
(iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims,
demands, losses, and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty
FARM FRESH BERHAD
Registration No.: 201001010221 (894851-U)
No.11-1, Jalan Petaling
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel. No.: +607-232 3463
Website: www.farmfresh.com.my
