Our
Sustainability
Journey
138 Sustainability Statement
139 About This Statement
140 Sustainability Highlights
141 Our Sustainability Focus Areas
142 Engaging Our Stakeholders
143 Determining What Matters
144 Our Sustainability Material Matters
145 Sustainability Governance
146 Better Dairy
152 Stronger Communities
158 Healthier Planet
169 GRI Content Index
HIGHLIGHTS:
Better Dairy Stronger
Communities
pg
146 pg
152
7
Healthier
Planet
pg
158
WE HAVE ENSHRINED THE PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABILITY
INTO THE VERY CORE OF OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. DRIVEN
BY OUR VISION TO BE A SUSTAINABLE AND HONEST FOOD
COMPANY THAT PRIORITISES THE WELL-BEING OF CONSUMERS,
WE ARE CONSISTENTLY EXPANDING OUR SUSTAINABILITY
PRACTICES TO MAXIMISE THE POSITIVE IMPACT WE DELIVER
TO PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT AND LOCAL ECONOMIES.
Our commitment to sustainability extends well beyond our primary mission to produce nutritional dairy
and plant-based products, as we recognise our responsibility to minimise our environmental impact through
sustainable farming and processing practices. Our ongoing efforts in adopting sustainable practices across
all our farms and closely monitoring our carbon footprint exemplify our dedication to this objective.
At the same time, we strive to ensure that the value our business generates is shared meaningfully with local
communities. This is evidenced by the employment and career advancement opportunities we provide employees,
the skills and know-how we impart to our partner-farmers, the support we provide to micro-entrepreneurs in
rural and economically disadvantaged areas, as well as the youth outreach and CSR programmes we regularly
undertake.
The importance and significance of sustainable practices is becoming increasingly pronounced, and our holistic efforts
to drive responsible value creation will safeguard the resilience and longevity of the Group while ensuring the delivery
of sustainable, long-term benefits to local communities, our stakeholders and the planet.
Sustainability
Statement
138
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements and in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The following key principles are
covered:
Our sustainability practices are further aligned with their respective contributions towards the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDGs”).
Stakeholder
Inclusiveness
Identifying and
addressing our
stakeholders’
expectations
Sustainability
Context
Presenting our
performance in the
wider context of
sustainability
Materiality
Identifying and
prioritising the key
sustainability issues
that the Group
encounters
Completeness
Reporting on all
sustainability topics
that are relevant to the
Group and which
influence our
stakeholders
SCOPE & BOUNDARY
This report includes all subsidiaries under Farm Fresh Berhad, with an emphasis on our Malaysian
businesses, which constitute the bulk of our operations.
RESTATEMENTS OF INFORMATION
This statement contains no restatements of any information or performance data presented in previous
reports or statements.
REPORTING PERIOD & CYCLE
This statement covers our sustainability performance for the financial year ended 31 March
2023 (“FY2023”), unless otherwise stated.
MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
The Group is currently not a member of any associations relevant to our industry.
ASSURANCE
In the continued development of our approach towards sustainability reporting, we have
maintained an internal review methodology for the disclosure of this year’s Sustainability Statement,
which includes our Internal Auditor review of the key figures in the Sustainability Report.
Importantly, in reporting our GHG emissions, we have engaged an independent third party firm,
Eco-Ideal Consulting Sdn Bhd, to perform the Group-wide carbon footprint inventory exercise.
139
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
About This Statement
336.7
500.5
88.3
35.5%
1,748,730
million litres of Farm Dairy
Effluent (FDE) recycled and
removed from waste discharge
FY2022: 335.0 million litres
million litres of municipal
water saved through rainwater
harvesting and tube well
pumping
FY2022: 428.8 million litres
million kg of solid waste
recycled and removed from
waste discharge
FY2022: 86.4 million kg
of turnover from products using
fully recyclable, sustainably
sourced packaging
FY2022: 28%
kg of chemical fertiliser
removed from our cycle
FY2022: 687,876 kg
0.42 tCO
2
eq
Our Group-wide carbon emissions
intensity per tonne of milk in
CY2022, representing a 9%
reduction since 2020
The carbon emissions
intensity of our Australian
farms is
31% lower
than the average dairy
farm in Oceania
The carbon emissions intensity
of our Malaysian farms is
17% lower than
the average Asian
dairy farm
>140,000
plastic bottles, equivalent to
>7,200kg
of plastic usage, have been
avoided via our Milk on Tap
initiative
72% of our total workforce
across farms and processing
facilities recruited from rural
communities in Malaysia
FY2022: 72%
RM45.4 million
in gross income earned by
stockists and dealers under
our home dealer network
FY2022: RM46.5 million
All our completed Malaysian
farms have received the
Certified Humane®
accreditation
RM1.7 million
in income generated for
our partner farmers
FY2022: RM3.2 million
140
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Sustainability Highlights
Our primary sustainability efforts stem from the three key pillars of Better Dairy, Stronger Communities and Healthier
Planet, which form the framework from which we are empowered to spur collective and synergistic sustainability
practices across the Group.
We have aligned each of our focus areas with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), in
tandem with the Dairy Declaration of Rotterdam, which acknowledges the UN SDGs as the comprehensive framework
for the dairy industry to contribute to sustainable development by 2030.
The mapping of the UN SDGs to our focus areas and corresponding sustainability material matters is presented
below and elaborated on further in this statement.
3 FOCUS AREAS
Producing Healthy
Products
Animal Health
& Welfare
Food Safety
& Quality
Regenerative
Agriculture
Climate
Action
Sustainable
Packaging
Responsible Water
Stewardship
Local Economy
Contribution
Employee
Welfare
Youth
Outreach
Better
Dairy
Stronger
Communities
Healthier
Planet
141
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Our Sustainability Focus Areas
Delivering safe and nutritious food that caters to
their dietary requirements and taste preferences,
all at a reasonable cost
Customers
O Our corporate website
O Our above the line and below the line
advertising
O Our social media channels
P Customer surveys and focus groups
P Face-to-face interactions at roadshows
and other on-ground marketing events
Ensuring clear, transparent and up-to-date
information on our products, distribution areas and
resale prices, while providing business development
and sales support to stockists and dealers in our
home dealer programme
Distributors
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Circulars and e-mail communication
P Visits and assessments
P Distributor training courses
Creating a safe, non-discriminatory and respectful
working environment that fosters career
advancement, skills development and income growth
opportunities for all employees
Employees
P Circulars and e-mail communication
P Employee townhalls
P Training courses
SA Team-building events
A Employee appraisals
Complying with local, state and federal laws and
regulations while contributing to national
development via community outreach and knowledge
transfer initiatives
Governments
& Regulators
O E-mail communication
O Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Seminars, training sessions and
dialogues
P On-site inspections and audits
A Our Integrated Annual Report
Achieving sustainable and profitable long-term
growth while upholding ethical and responsible
business practices to safeguard against reputational
damage
Investors &
Shareholders
O IR website
P E-mail communication
P One-on-one meetings
P Investor briefings
P Site visits
P Our quarterly financial result briefings
A Our Annual General Meeting
A Our Integrated Annual Report
Distributing the economic benefits of our growth
by creating employment opportunities and fostering
collaborative business partnerships, while protecting
local communities from adverse environmental or
social impacts
Local
Communities
O Community initiatives and outreach
programmes
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Visits to local communities
Maintaining a transparent and equitable procurement
system that adheres to stringent anti-bribery and
anti-corruption practices, while supporting local
business ecosystems
Suppliers
O E-mail communication
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Supplier visits and assessments
We recognise the valuable input of our stakeholders in understanding the comprehensive impact of our business
practices. Their insights enable us to develop sustainability strategies that effectively balance their needs with our
business and growth objectives. Through open and ongoing dialogue, we engage with the following groups to uncover
insights, which in turn guide the determination of our sustainability material matters.
Stakeholder
Group
Their Expectations Mode and Frequency of Engagement
O = Ongoing P = Periodically SA = Semi-Annually A = Annually
142
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Engaging Our Stakeholders
To objectively ascertain the issues that are crucial to generating shared value, we employ a rigorous materiality
determination process that takes into account stakeholder input as well as our ongoing analysis of industry trends,
risks and emerging issues specific to the food and dairy sector. This comprehensive approach ensures we address
all relevant and impactful factors affecting our business, enabling us to identify our sustainability priorities and develop
impactful strategies.
MATERIALITY MATRIX
The materiality matrix displayed below represents the outcomes of our materiality determination process, illustrating
the importance of each sustainability material matter to both the Group and our stakeholders.
Risk Determination
The Audit and Risk Management Committee reviews key risks, especially those particular to the food and dairy
sectors and our business operations, with special attention placed on developments within our core Malaysian
market.
Significance to Farm Fresh Berhad
Significance to Stakeholders
Food Safety &
Quality
Producing
Healthy Products
Animal Health &
Welfare
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
Regenerative
Agriculture
Local Economy
Contribution
Youth
Outreach
Employee
Welfare
EMERGING PRIORITY HIGH
PRIORITY
Quality Dairy Stronger Communities Healthier Planet
Sustainable
Packaging
Climate
Action
143
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Determining What Matters
Sustainability
Material Matter
Why It Matters Who It Matters To
BETTER DAIRY
Producing
Healthy
Products
Producing fresh and healthy dairy and plant-based products remains
our core purpose and provides us with a competitive advantage.
Animal
Health &
Welfare
The well-being of our livestock directly influences the nutritional
value and safety of our products, which in turn impacts our
reputation and growth potential.
Food Safety &
Quality
As a dairy producer, it is imperative that our products meet stringent
food safety standards while providing for key nutritional needs.
STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Local
Economy
Contribution
Given the rural and suburban locations of our farms, where the
average income is below the national average, we have a responsibility
to empower positive change and improve livelihoods.
Employee
Welfare
Creating a supportive, secure and well-equipped work environment
for our employees enhances productivity and boosts the sustainability
of our business.
Youth
Outreach
By fostering positive lifestyle and nutrition habits among the younger
generation, we can develop beneficial behaviours that endure for
generations.
HEALTHIER PLANET
Regenerative
Agriculture
Embracing regenerative agriculture practices allows us to produce
in equilibrium with the natural environment, enhancing product
quality and delivering positive effects for the environment and local
communities.
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
As a farm-based business, we recognise our responsibility to
responsibly extract and treat water to minimise our impact on the
environment and safeguard the resources of local communities.
Climate
Action
We are playing close attention to our emissions performance and
adopting greater use of renewable energy to minimise our carbon
footprint and contribute to the fight against climate change.
Sustainable
Packaging
The use of sustainable packaging reduces the ecological footprint
of our products and enables our customers to make environmentally-
conscious choices.
The table presented below describes the significance of each of our sustainability material matters and identifies
stakeholders that have indicated the matter as a ‘high priority’ during our engagements with them.
144
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Our Sustainability Material Matters
To ensure effective governance of sustainability practices, we have established principles, structures and reporting
mechanisms that uphold leadership, oversight and accountability throughout the organisation.
Our Board of Directors, as the highest body in the governance of sustainability practices, holds ultimate responsibility
of the Group’s sustainability agenda and provides oversight of the integration of ESG matters in the Group’s corporate
strategy with the aim of balancing the many stakeholders’ interests while ensuring that we grow responsibly and
create long-term value.
The Board of Directors is supported by the Audit and Risk Management Committee (ARMC), which is responsible for
identifying sustainability-related risks. Building upon the ARMC’s insights, the Board reviews key sustainability material
matters that drive our sustainability initiatives each year. Selected Key Senior Management of the Company will then
be tasked to implement strategies and initiatives pertaining to these selected matters and then report the outcomes
of their sustainability efforts to the Board. Supporting the relevant Key Senior Management in fulfilling the implementation
of the tasks are relevant members of the operating departments, divisions or operating companies.
To ensure progress and alignment, Management presents to the Board as part of an annual review of the Group’s
sustainability actions and how it aligns to the Group’s sustainability roadmap and priorities.
Underpinning our sustainability governance structure are various policies we have introduced to inculcate a high
standard of responsible business conduct and ethical human rights practices throughout the organisation. These
include our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, Conflict of Interest Policy and Ethical Trading Policy, which, along
with our other policies, may be viewed and downloaded from our corporate website at https://www.farmfresh.com.
my/investor-relations/.
We strive to embed these policy commitments across our workforce, business relationships, strategies and processes,
supported by relevant training modules to ensure their effective implementation.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Highest governance body
Audit and Risk Management
Committee
Key Senior Management in
charge of Sustainability
Identification
of potential
sustainability
risks for board
consideration
Delegation to relevant Key
Senior Management in
charge of Sustainability
Nomination of
committee
members
Approval of
sustainability
topics, based upon
risks identified
comprising of members of
individual
departments/
divisions/
operating
companies
1. Group Managing Director and
Group Chief Operating Officer
2. Group Chief Financial Officer
3. Group Chief Operating Officer
4. Group Senior Farm Manager
2
4
3
1
145
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Sustainability Governance
146
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
BETTER DAIRY
Related
UNSDG
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Producing healthy products is central to our mission and
pivotal in establishing ourselves as a trusted and honest
brand. Our longstanding reputation for delivering dairy
and plant-based products free from harmful substances
has resonated strongly with consumers, and by continuing
to surpass industry standards and expanding our
consideration for consumer health, we aim to build trust,
foster loyalty and drive sustainable organic growth.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Leveraging our Integrated Supply Chain
As a vertically integrated dairy producer with a presence
spanning farming to distribution, we possess the unique
ability to closely monitor the quality of our products and
their ingredients. Consequently, all our offerings adhere
to the highest standards of food safety and meet stringent
quality requirements. Our efforts are further empowered
by rigorous practices that prioritise the health and well-
being of our dairy livestock, ensuring they are treated in
accordance with established animal welfare practices
(refer to ‘Food Safety & Quality’ and ‘Animal Health &
Welfare’ for additional details).
Leveraging our experience and presence across the dairy
value chain, we have successfully established a satellite
network of partner-farmers to whom we provide
comprehensive training on our processes and standards,
enabling them to align with our practices. Through
continuous mentorship, frequent seminars and ongoing
technical support, we actively transfer our knowledge to
this expanding community, enabling us to maintain
exceptional nutritional quality standards as we grow our
production capacity and capabilities.
Diversifying our Range of Nutritional Products
As consumer preferences and dietary needs evolve,
alternative milk products and plant-based options are
increasing in popularity amongst a growing consumer
base. Utilising our strong research and development
capabilities, we have proactively responded by being the
first local player to introduce organic A2 milk, kurma milk,
lactose-free milk, oat milk and almond milk in Malaysia.
These products are free from preservatives and colourings
while being rich in nutrients such as high-quality protein,
vitamins and minerals that are easily absorbed. Additionally,
many of these options are available in UHT/ambient
varieties, extending their shelf life and allowing for wider
distribution beyond major urban areas.
In FY2023, we expanded our reach into the growing up milk
segment with the launch of Farm Fresh Grow. This range
offers pure cow’s milk fortified with essential vitamins and
nutrients crucial for children’s healthy development. Notably,
our growing up milk does not contain preservatives, artificial
flavouring, vegetable oil, calcium carbonate (from sources
such as limestone), and, most importantly, hidden sugar in
the form of maltodextrin, which has a high Glycemic Index
(GI) and contains no nutritional value.
The launch was complemented by an educational campaign
entitled ‘The Hidden Truth’, which emphasised our
commitment to transparency and assured parents of our
commitment to deliver milk that only contains necessities.
Backed by strong market response, we will further augment
our presence in this segment with the impending launch of
Farm Fresh Grow in powder format by end-2023, which will
similarly be made from fortified pure cow’s milk that is free
from sugar, maltodextrin and other unnecessary ingredients.
Future Plans
• We will continue to actively pursue research and development initiatives to innovate and expand our range
of dairy and plant-based recipes, while exploring avenues to enhance their nutritional and functional benefits.
• We will continue to increase awareness and adoption of our products among children and families, leveraging
on our newly launched pure cow’s milk-based formula for children as well as milk for School Milk Programme.
Our Performance
• 100% of our products meet endorsed nutritional guidelines
• Our efforts to deliver healthy dairy products was once again recognised and appreciated by consumers, as
we picked up our second consecutive Platinum Award in the Beverage – Dairy category of the Putra Brand
Awards 2022
147
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Producing Healthy Products
W
WHY IT MATTERS
The well-being of our animals is paramount to our success,
and we embrace our duty to set a positive example for
the dairy industry through the adoption of responsible
practices. By prioritising the care, comfort and nutrition
of our dairy herd, we not only take care of their health
and that of their offspring, but simultaneously safeguard
the sustainability and quality of our dairy products.
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
All of our farms strictly adhere to the Group’s Good
Animal Husbandry Practices (GAHP), which encompasses
a comprehensive set of guidelines for animal health care,
nutrition and housing. Aligned with the Malaysian Good
Agricultural Practices (myGAP) and the World Organisation
for Animal Health’s standards, this code ensures that our
farms maintain the highest standards in animal welfare.
Furthermore, we continuously invest in research and
development to enhance animal health and welfare
practices that are specifically tailored for tropical climates.
This empowers us to implement practices that ensure
the well-being and comfort of our herd while optimising
their milk output, yield and longevity. In sharing these
best practices with our network of partner-farmers, we
contribute towards raising the overall standards of livestock
rearing nationwide.
Animal Feed Practices
To ensure optimal nutrition for our entire herd, we
implement a total mixed ration feeding system that entails
developing specific feed formulas for different members
of our herd, taking into account their individual nutritional
requirements and stage in the breeding cycle.
A majority of our feed mixture consists of on-site grown
grass, cultivated without the use of pesticides and enriched
through vermicomposting, a process that breaks down
animal waste. This sustainable approach not only reduces
our environmental impact by utilising the animal waste
we generate but also enhances the nutritional value of
the feed. Additionally, we supplement the feed mixture
with a variety of farm-grown crops such as corn, soybean
and palm kernel, ensuring both volume and nutritional
balance in their diet.
Animal Healthcare Practices
Each of our individual farms is equipped with dedicated
animal healthcare teams, comprising veterinarians and
animal science graduates, and are led by Animal Health
Compliance Managers. These teams are entrusted with
providing comprehensive veterinary care for the entire
herd, including assisting with the delivery of newborns
and administering medical treatments to sick animals.
They also conduct regular health checks on all our herd
members to ensure their well-being.
A crucial aspect of their role involves caring for the hoofs
of our cows. Hoof care significantly contributes to cow
health and enables them to move comfortably between
milking parlours, feed bunks and watering areas. To
optimise hoof health, we trim the hoofs of our cows twice
a year – 60 days before calving and 120 days after calving.
This practice ensures proper weight distribution on all
four legs and helps to prevent hoof lesions.
We take pride in the fact that all our completed farms
in Malaysia have obtained the Certified Humane®
accreditation from Humane Farm Animal Care. We are
honoured to be the first player in Asia to achieve the
certification, and are committed to achieving the
certification for our Taiping farm and our farms in Australia
in the near future.
Animal Welfare Practices
To ensure the well-being of our Australian Friesian-Sahiwal
and Holstein Jersey cows in Malaysia, where they are not
native and thus more susceptible to heat and humidity
stress, we have implemented various measures to enhance
their comfort both inside and outside our barns.
At all our farms, we have installed tunnel ventilation barns
designed to keep the cows cool and promote abundant
milk production. Additionally, soakers are installed in the
barns, spraying water on the cows at regular intervals
throughout the day to further enhance their comfort. Our
cows also have access to clean and comfortable dry sand
bedded areas where they can freely eat, drink and relax.
Furthermore, the setup of our Australian-based farms
means that cows can graze on grass outside their barns.
148
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Animal Health and Welfare
In maximising animal welfare, we also employ strategic animal breeding processes. Our dedicated in vitro fertilisation
(IVF) unit conducts ongoing research and development to optimise the genetic makeup of our cows. This enables
us to breed cows that are ideally suited to thrive in the harsh tropical climate of Malaysia, minimising their predisposed
vulnerability to heat and humidity stresses that may impact feed intake, milk production and reproductive efficiency.
Spearheading Innovation in Animal Health and Welfare
With the aim of developing enhanced practices for the health and welfare of our cows and contributing to best
practices in our region, we continually engage in strategic collaborations with veterinary-related institutions, corporations
and research centres. These collaborations serve to lower the cost of herd medicinal care, shift resources to preventive
care and improve yields through increased animal well-being and productivity.
Collaboration Objective Intended Long-Term Outcome
Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development
Institute (“MARDI”)
Research the potential of local herbs as a
remedy to control bovine mastitis in cows
Substitute the use of veterinary drugs
with local herbs as a sustainable and
organic disease control solution
Bayer Malaysia Research the effect of Catosal™ on milk
yield in peak- and late-lactation stage cows.
Catosal™ is a source of Vitamin B12 and
phosphorus for the prevention or treatment
of deficiencies of these nutrients in animals
Enhance milk productivity while
maintaining the strength, health and
proper nourishment of our cows with
essential nutrients.
Universiti Putra Malaysia
(“UPM”)
Investigate the relationship between claw
trimming and claw health, animal welfare
and milk production.
Establish best practices in claw trimming
that are specific to our climactic
conditions, and that can be applied
across our farms
Future Plans
• We will continue to invest in animal health and welfare technologies across all our farms, while deepening
our partnerships with veterinary-related institutions, corporations and research centres to advance animal
health and welfare practices tailored to tropical climates.
• We will actively share the results of our research and development endeavours with the Malaysian government
through the National Dairy Industry Development (“NDID”) programme, with the goal of driving positive
transformation throughout the industry.
Our Performance
• All our farms adhere to the Group’s Good Animal Husbandry Practices (“GAHP”)
• All our completed Malaysian farms have received the Certified Humane® accreditation
• 82.3% of our cows across all farms have access to tunnel-ventilation barns
• 96.8% of our cows across all farms have access to dry sand-bedded areas for relaxation
149
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Ensuring the quality and safety of our products is central
to our sustainability agenda and keenly reflects the ethos
of our collective vision – to place the well-being of
consumers at the forefront of our considerations. By
upholding the highest and most rigorous standards in
our farming, production and distribution processes, we
are empowered to provide nutritional benefits to our
consumers, foster loyalty and trust in our products, and
grow our positive impact and contributions to local
communities as we expand our business reach.
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
We leverage our presence as a fully vertically integrated
dairy company to exercise robust control over our
processes and minimise our reliance on external suppliers.
Even when we source dairy from outside the Group, it
primarily comes from our network of partner-farmers
who follow our stringent processes and undergo continuous
monitoring.
Our processing facilities in Malaysia and Australia strictly
adhere to internationally recognized standards, including
the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (“HACCP”)
control system and the Good Manufacturing Practices
(“GMP”). We provide training to our processing facility
staff members in GMP and HACCP food safety practices
so they remain equipped to maintain high standards of
food safety and quality throughout the production process.
Adopting Local and International Standards
All our farms and processing facilities have obtained
certifications in the following standards and systems:
• The Halal certification – a globally recognised Malaysian
accreditation certifying that all our products are
prepared by Halal methods.
• The Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices (“myGAP”)
– a comprehensive certification scheme introduced
by the Malaysian Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Security for the agricultural, aquaculture and livestock
sector. The scheme recognises farms which adhere
to the Good Agricultural Practices (“GAP”) resource
management system, which provides practices that
ensure high levels of food safety.
• The GMP – a set of standards that encapsulate the
essential principles of food hygiene and safety in the
food processing industry. The standards are defined
and certified by the Malaysian Ministry of Health’s
section for food safety and quality.
• The HACCP – a management system that assists with
the control of biological, chemical and physical hazards
across the production chain, from procurement and
production to manufacturing, distribution and
consumption.
• The Quality Assurance Programme (“QAP”) – a
management education programme for total quality
management formulated and implemented by the
Department of Veterinary Services, under the Malaysian
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security. The QAP is
specific to the livestock industry and encapsulates
specific codes of practice at all levels of the supply
chain.
The Farm Fresh Food Safety Management
System
Our in-house food safety management system expands
upon the controls established by the HACCP and GMP
standards, and includes the following key practices,
amongst others:
150
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Food Safety and Quality
Action Frequency
Review of critical control points (CCP) monitoring record and
implementation of corrective actions
Daily
Checking of cleaning and maintenance activity records Weekly
HACCP team meetings Twice monthly
Testing of raw materials and finished products Quarterly
Review of HACCP plan Half-yearly and every time a report is made
Checking of mock recall reports Yearly
Supplier audits Yearly
Full internal audits Yearly
Management review meetings Yearly and as deemed necessary
Our food safety management system is overseen by a specialised team consisting of a HACCP team leader, maintenance
supervisors, internal auditors, Quality Assurance (QA) professionals and/or production managers. This team functions
independently from our operational teams and possesses the authority to initiate supplementary processes and
actions as deemed necessary, including:
• Mock product recalls
• Random samplings of products
• Laboratory-based chemical analyses of products
• Gap analyses of staff training and knowledge standards with respect to food safety
• Evaluations of comformity to national-level food safety regulations
• Review of food safety documentation
• Customer complaint reviews
Additionally, the food safety management team is entrusted with supervising routine maintenance activities for our
existing equipment, ensuring they remain functioning to the highest standards.
Biosecurity Practices
To ensure the good health of our herd, we have implemented rigorous protocols across all our farms that align with
the guidelines outlined in our GAHP manual and the myGAP certification.
As part of these comprehensive measures, all cows at our Malaysian farms receive vaccinations for Foot and Mouth
Disease. Moreover, we proactively monitor global biosecurity risks to identify potential threats and promptly introduce
additional vaccinations as deemed necessary.
Future Plans
• We will enhance our collaboration with partner-farmers to ensure the implementation of GAHP and myGap
standards across all farms that supply dairy to the Group.
Our Performance
• 100% of our processing facilities across Malaysia and Australia are operated in accordance with the GMP
and HACCP food safety and quality principles
• All our staff in our processing facilities are trained in GMP and HACCP food safety practices
• We have had no product recalls due to safety reasons since 2014
151
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
STRONGER
COMMUNITIES
Related
UNSDG
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
152
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Many suburban and rural areas in Malaysia suffer from
a lack of economic opportunities and are underserved
compared to urban centres. Leveraging our presence in
these areas, we assume responsibility to empower these
communities, not only by providing sustainable employment
opportunities to locals but also through skills development
and education programmes that foster professional
growth. By doing so, we create shared value that uplifts
these regions while simultaneously supporting our business
objectives.
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Rural Employment and Talent Development
Our “local first” policy ensures that we prioritise hiring
from local communities where we operate before
considering options in urban markets. Currently, 72% of
employees in our farms and processing facilities are
recruited from rural communities in Malaysia, including
11 individuals from the indigenous Orang Asli community.
We believe in nurturing local talents and have established
several talent development programmes that include
internships in collaboration with renowned universities
and colleges. Since 2019, we have provided internships
and potential full-time employment opportunities to 223
high-performing students, with many becoming valuable
contributors to our workforce.
Our efforts also include the Farm Fresh Scholarship
Programme, which we launched in 2021 in collaboration
with the East Coast Economic Region Development Council
(ECERDC). The programme provides Orang Asli children
with educational and financial support from primary to
university level, and has onboarded 20 Orang Asli students
from five local schools in the district of Rompin with
RM30,000 disbursed to support their educational needs
thus far. We aspire to inspire at least 80% of these
students to pursue university studies and offer all of them
the opportunity to join our workforce upon graduation.
153
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Local Economy Contribution
Future Plans
• We intend to extend the Farm Fresh Scholarship
Programme to more Orang Asli students who
require financial assistance in Pahang.
• As our product range continues to expand, we
will enhance our home dealer programme
through roadshows and other outreach initiatives,
extending this income-generation opportunity to
entrepreneurs throughout Malaysia.
• We are developing strategies to promote greater
female participation in the home dealer network,
thereby empowering an increasing number of
housewives to achieve economic independence
and financial freedom.
Our Performance
• 72% of our total workforce across our farms
and processing facilities were recruited from
rural and underserved communities
• 223 students from local universities and colleges
have benefitted from our internship programmes
• We have 55 stockists, 801 home dealers and
952 agents within our home dealer programme
• 80% of the micro-entrepreneurs within our home
dealer programme are women
• RM1.7 million in income was generated for our
partner-farmers
Uplifting Local Farmers
The satellite network of rurally located partner-farmers we
established in 2011 has played a vital role in promoting fair
pricing for customers and enabling us to cost-effectively meet
our external dairy sourcing needs. In addition to purchasing
their milk, we have expanded our relationship with our
partner-farmers to provide them with knowledge transfer
opportunities through mentorship programmes and access
to technical support throughout the production process.
By paying fair market prices to our partner-farmers for
raw milk, we contribute meaningfully to their livelihoods
as well as to the Malaysian government’s goal of achieving
self-sufficiency in domestic fresh milk production by 2025.
The Farm Fresh Home Dealer Programme
In 2016, we introduced our innovative home dealer
programme, a first-of-its-kind distribution network that
spans rural regions in Malaysia without access to major
grocery stores or supermarkets. This programme has not
only expanded the reach of our products but has also
created sustainable income opportunities for micro-
entrepreneurs in underserved areas. Currently, we have
55 stockists, 801 home dealers, and 952 agents across
all states in Malaysia, with 80% of them being women.
These independent contractors distribute Farm Fresh and
Yarra Farm products within their communities, earning
commission for the sales they generate while spreading
awareness on the nutritional benefits of dairy products
to their friends and families.
To support their professional development, we conduct
regular seminars and courses that keep them updated
on our product range, pricing and their distribution areas.
In 2019, we also launched an e-commerce website called
Farm Fresh Mart, which provides information on the
location and availability of home dealers and agents,
allowing customers to purchase our products online,
contact a home dealer or agent directly, or visit their
nearest stockist or home dealer.
Via our home dealer programme, stockists may earn up
to RM25,000 per month, while home dealers can generate
a monthly income of up to RM5,000, surpassing average
salaries in the regions they live in. Meanwhile, the
programme continues to contribute significantly to our
financial performance, with direct sales to stockists and
distribution support provided by our network partners
contributing towards 29% of our total revenue in FY2023.
In recognition of the social benefits provided by our home
dealer programme, we were honoured with the ASEAN
Inclusive Business Award in 2020.
154
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Local Economy Contribution
W
WHY IT MATTERS
We recognise the vital role of healthy and nutritious food
in shaping the development of future generations. Utilising
our position as Malaysia’s leading homegrown dairy
company, we have a unique opportunity to instil better
consumption habits, particularly within schools.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Farm Fresh’s Multidimensional Human Capital
Development Programme (Program Pembangunan
Insan Multidimensi)
In June 2023, we have commenced our new
Multidimensional Human Capital Development Programme
to support hardcore poor students in areas of education,
nutrition and living standards. As part of this programme,
we have committed to invest over RM1 million towards
establishing Special Community Centres in areas with
prevalent hardcore poor students. The first centre was
launched at Sentul in the Klang Valley, providing 60
students with extra classes, tuition, religious classes,
motivational sessions and nutritious meals, including Farm
Fresh milk.
We are going to expand this initiative to nine more
locations in other states across Malaysia, trailblazing an
effort that paves the way for other large corporations,
multinationals and government-linked companies to join
this noble cause. This initiative is undertaken in collaboration
with the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health and
Yayasan Didik Negara.
School Milk Programme
In our most recent collaboration with the Ministry of
Education, we have begun participating in a new Program
Susu Sekolah, or ‘School Milk Programme’, which aims to
deliver quality nutritional milk to school canteens in the
Northern, Eastern and Southern regions of Peninsular
Malaysia. Through our involvement, we have delivered
over 62 million packs of school milk to about 3,400 schools
from April 2022 to March 2023, with a further 30 million
packs delivered from March to June 2023. As a result of
our successful involvement thus far, we have been
awarded a new contract to deliver a further 70 million
packs in the next phase of the programme.
Our Performance
• Delivered over 62 million packs of school milk
from April 2022 to March 2023 under the School
Milk Programme
• Launched first out of 10 planned Special
Community Centres in Sentul, providing hardcore
poor students with extra classes, religious classes,
motivational sessions and nutritious meals,
including Farm Fresh milk
155
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Youth Outreach
W
WHY IT MATTERS
The bulk of our workforce operates in our farms and
processing facilities, encountering occupational risks
associated with heavy machinery, working with livestock
in high heat and humidity, and engaging in construction
or repair tasks. In our efforts to ensure their on-the-job
safety and comfort, we adhere to international occupational
health and safety standards, while additionally offering
healthcare benefits and subsidised meals. Through our
provision of a holistic workplace experience that nurtures
personal growth and development, we encourage loyalty
and productivity, thereby supporting the sustainability of
our business operations.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Our approach to employee welfare encompasses
implementing robust occupational health and safety
systems for all staff across our farms and processing
facilities, in addition to providing housing and resources
for sustainable and healthy living to our farm-based
employees.
At present, none of our employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. Instead, we maintain
open and direct communication with them to address
their concerns and ensure a conducive and fair working
environment for all.
The Farm Fresh Safety Management System
To address the specific challenges encountered in our
employee working environments, we have devised a Safety
Management System (“SMS”) and a Safety, Health and
Environment (“SHE”) Policy that adhere to the following
relevant Malaysian regulations and laws:
• Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994
• Use and Standard of Exposure Chemical Hazardous
to Health (“USECHH”) 2000
• Control of Industrial Major Accident Hazards (“CIMAH”)
1996
• Environmental Quality Act 1974: Environmental Quality
(Prescribed Premises) (Scheduled Wastes Treatment
and Disposal Facilities) Order 1989 and 2006
• Fire Services Act 1988
Furthermore, our SMS and SHE policies meet stringent
international and national-level standards, including:
• MS 1722:2003
• OHSAS 18001
• ISO 1400
Implementing HIRARC Procedures
Our Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk
Control (“HIRARC”) procedures play a crucial role in
managing potentially hazardous activities. We have
established specific protocols for operating machinery
and conducting maintenance, which are strictly enforced
across all our farms and production facilities. Additionally,
we strive to proactively identify and address emerging
hazards through additional measures and practices that
include:
• Periodic safety audits of processing facilities
• Monitoring, measuring and controlling exposure to
hazardous chemicals
• Annual audiometric testing carried out on employees
working at our processing facilities to measure noise
exposure and its effects on hearing
• Internal Emergency Response Teams (“ERT”) which are
tasked with evacuating employees and fighting fires
in the event of an emergency
Dedicated safety officers are responsible for overseeing
our HIRARC procedures, monitoring personnel safety and
conducting regular safety audits of our factory premises,
towards maintaining safe working environments at all
times.
In addition to these measures, employee training is
prioritised at all levels and across all job functions, with
occupational first aid, Confined Space training, forklift
handling training, reach truck handling training and Hazard
Identification, Risk Assessment and Determining Control
(“HIRADC”) training provided to employees based on their
156
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Employee Welfare
relevant job requirements. Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”) is also provided to employees wherever necessary
to enhance their safety. Furthermore, to ensure new employees are well-informed on safety measures and protocols,
we have included a comprehensive safety awareness component in our orientation programme.
Safety, Health and Environment Committee
We have established a Safety, Health and Environment Committee that consists of a mix of representatives from
both employers and employees, fostering meaningful dialogue on health and safety matters and providing a channel
for emerging risks to be identified and brought to the attention of our management.
The primary responsibilities of the committee include, but are not limited to:
• Conducting regular workplace inspections, including specific inspections of machinery, equipment, substances,
appliances and work processes
• Investigating workplace accidents, near misses, dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning and occupational
diseases, and reporting significant findings and recommending corrective actions to management
• Supporting the development of safety and health rules and safe work systems
• Evaluating the effectiveness of existing safety and health policies and recommending revisions as needed
Encouraging Sustainable Living
As part of our dedication to promote economic progress in rural communities (see ‘Local Economy Contribution’ for
more details), we offer meal subsidies and free accommodation to our farm-based employees. Currently, 80% of
farm employees benefit from subsidised meals, while 50% enjoy the privilege of free accommodation. Additionally,
we provide them with access to fresh vegetables and fresh fish that is grown and reared on-site, ensuring nutritious
and sustainable ingredients for their daily meals.
Our Performance
• We recorded zero work-related fatalities and serious injuries in FY2023
• Our employees received an average of 4 hours of safety and health training in FY2023
• 100% of our employees are covered by our Safety Management System and our Safety, Health and
Environmental Policy
• Subsidised meals and free accommodation are provided to 80% and 50% of farm employees respectively
157
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
158
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
HEALTHIER
PLANET
Related
UNSDG
W
WHY IT MATTERS
With many of our farms and landbanks located in close
proximity to protected natural environments and local
communities, we recognise the importance of embracing
circular farming practices that minimise external or
unnatural inputs, reduce waste and nourish the land
upon which we produce. Such practices generate tangible
and intangible value for the Group throughout our entire
value chain, benefiting the health of our livestock, sustaining
our ability to provide nutritious products to customers
and safeguarding the integrity of our landbanks from
degradation.
Through the practice of vermicomposting, we effectively transform treated solid waste into a usable component in
our cow bedding, thereby increasing the comfort and health for our herd. Additionally, this waste is used as organic
fertiliser for the grass cultivated at our farms, with this nutrient-rich grass then forming a significant part of the feed
mix provided to our cows. We also treat liquid animal waste for use in pasture irrigation, with this treated waste
also used in conjunction with recycled rainwater for the washing and flushing of our barns.
By implementing these practices, we redirect a significant amount of animal waste away from landfills and sewerage
systems each year, resulting in a reduction to the methane emissions that would have occurred through landfill
decomposition and during chemical treatments in sewerage systems. Furthermore, we have observed a decrease in
our dependence on external water sources for our operations as well as a reduced reliance on chemical fertilisers
that can negatively impact soil health.
Sedimentation Phytoremediation Slow Sand Filtration
Rainwater Harvesting
Microbial
Vermifiltration
Pasture
Irrigation
Barn Washing
& Flushing
Vermi-Composting
Organic
Fertiliser
Compost
Bedding
COWS
Solid Separation
Solid Waste Farm Dairy Effluent (FDE)
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Since 2014, we have gradually adopted regenerative
agriculture techniques at our Muadzam Shah and UPM
farms, focusing on two primary objectives:
1. Minimising the production of non-recyclable organic
waste
2. Maximising the utilisation of locally available natural
resources
In our pursuit of circular farming, we aim to reduce our
reliance on external inputs such as chemical fertilisers.
Instead, we harness the potential of the waste generated
by our herd, as depicted in the accompanying chart, to
serve essential functions.
159
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Regenerative Agriculture
The regenerative agricultural practices we have adopted, together with the benefits they provide, are outlined in
greater detail in the table below.
Function Processes Undertaken Benefits
Compost
Bedding
African Nightcrawler worms are used to
break down solid waste produced by our
cows into vermicompost (worm castings),
which is then used as part of the mix for
the bedding of our cows.
· Promotes claw health and creates a
comfortable environment for cows
· After 5 to 6 months of composting, the
bedding becomes the perfect feed for
vermiculture composting
· Minimises waste discharge that enters
the drainage system
Organic
Fertiliser
The vermicompost produced from solid
waste is spread over our pasture as an
organic fertiliser for grass, which in turn
forms a major component of the feed
provided to our cows.
· Reduces the usage of chemical fertilisers
· Minimises waste discharge that enters
the drainage system
· Improves physical characteristics of the
soil, such as water holding capacity,
aeration and porosity, thereby enhancing
soil fertility
· Using organic fertiliser results in more
nutritious feed for our cows
Barn Washing
and Flushing
After solid separation, the Farm Dairy
Effluent (“FDE”) that is isolated undergoes
three major processes:
1. It is filtered by sitting in sedimentation
ponds, a process that uses gravity to split
and remove any remaining solids from
the liquid waste
2. Phytoremediation uses living plants to
effectively treat the effluent against
contaminants and excess nutrient content
3. Finally, the effluent goes through a slow
sand water purification process that
removes turbidity and pathogenic
organisms
The resulting water is then used along with
recycled rainwater for the washing and
flushing of our barns.
· Reduces reliance on external sources of
water
· Minimises waste discharge that enters
the drainage system
· Minimises groundwater and surface water
contamination by reducing the amount
of toxic waste released into the
environment
Pasture
Irrigation
FDE can also be used for irrigating our
pasture, provided that it goes through
microbial vermifiltration after the solid
separation and sedimentation processes.
Vermifiltration is a biological wastewater
treatment process that uses composting
worms to treat water, with the output being
water that is suitable for watering pastures.
· Filtered FDE contains beneficial nutrients
for plant growth, feeding a positive cycle
that in turn leads to more nutritious feed
for our cows and produce for our
customers
· The use of irrigation ponds mean that
our pastures can be adequately watered
even during the dry season, thus
producing nutritious grass all year round
160
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Regenerative Agriculture
Turning Waste into Fuel
To further optimise our recycling of animal waste, we have entered into an agreement with Green Lagoon Technology
Sdn Bhd to construct a new biogas facility at Muadzam Shah. Green Lagoon will construct and manage the plant
while we will provide cow manure to facilitate the production of biofuel (see ‘Climate Action’ for more details).
Future Plans
• Over the next three years, our goal is to implement regenerative agriculture practices across all of our
farms.
• Additionally, we will develop an action plan to facilitate the implementation of regenerative agriculture
practices at farms operated by our partner-farmers.
Our Performance
• 88.3 million kg of solid animal waste removed from waste discharge and recycled into organic fertiliser
• 336.7 million litres of FDE recycled and removed from waste discharge
• 1,748,730 kg of chemical fertiliser removed from our production cycle
• 329.7 acres of farmland irrigated by recycled FDE
161
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Additionally, our rainwater harvesting systems collect and
store rainwater for use across various farm-based
processes. This includes activities such as barn washing
and flushing, irrigation, the cleaning of our herds and the
maintenance of farm machinery.
The Impact of Regenerative Agriculture
Practices
Untreated animal waste presents a significant threat to
water sources, carrying the potential to cause contamination
that could impact the entire dairy production process.
However, by implementing regenerative agriculture
practices that treat and transform both solid and liquid
animal waste into functional resources, we effectively
distance animal waste from water sources and substantially
reduce the risk of cross-contamination.
Our well-established regenerative agriculture practices
remove 88.3 million kg of solid waste and 336.7 million
litres of liquid waste per year from potential entry into
the water table and local waterways.
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Ensuring the sustainable extraction and discharge of water
is of utmost importance to us as it directly impacts the
health of our soil and the overall quality of our products.
Furthermore, given that our farms and processing facilities
are situated near local communities which rely on the
land for their livelihoods, we recognise the need to
minimise our impact on the natural water table and
reduce the potential of water-based discharge entering
nearby waterways.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
To minimise our reliance on surface and municipal water
sources, we have made strategic investments in new
technologies that enable us to efficiently collect and utilise
rainwater and groundwater. Furthermore, our adoption
of regenerative agriculture practices (see ‘Regenerative
Agriculture’ for more) plays a vital role in our water
conservation efforts, as the use of treated liquid animal
waste for barn washing and pasture irrigation significantly
reduces our dependence on the water table.
Harnessing Groundwater and Rainwater
The installation of tube well pumping and rainwater
harvesting systems are amongst our key initiatives to
promote sustainable water management, and, in
combination, have helped us reduce our use of municipal
water by a total of 500.5 million litres in FY2023.
Our tube well pumping system allows us to extract
groundwater from the lower levels of the water table.
This reduces the impact of our withdrawal needs on
surface water, which is vital for maintaining soil health
and protecting the surrounding natural resources for
neighbouring farms and communities. Groundwater is
also available throughout the year and less susceptible
to droughts, providing us with a reliable water source
and reducing our reliance on municipal water during
periods of water scarcity.
162
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Responsible Water Stewardship
Future Plans
• We aim to expand our use of rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping systems with the goal of achieving
a 60% reduction in municipal water use by 2025, compared to peak levels
• We will develop an action plan to support our partner-farmers in adopting sustainable water withdrawal
and management strategies at their respective farms
Our Performance
Water withdrawn by source
FY2022
(megalitres)
FY2023
(megalitres)
Municipal sources* 2,883.8 2,909.4
Groundwater and Surface water (incl. tube well pumping, rainwater and water
from rivers)
428.8 500.5
Total 3,312.6 3,409.9
* Figure includes the usage of 1,835 megalitres (FY2023) and 2,397 megalitres (FY2022) of municipal water at our Australian farms, where
there are no groundwater and surface water sources available for extraction.
• 500.5 million litres of municipal water saved per year through tube well pumping and rainwater harvesting
• 14.7% reduction in municipal water usage due to adoption of tube well pumping and rainwater harvesting
163
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
W
WHY IT MATTERS
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)
of the United Nations, agrifood systems account for one-
third of total anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions. This encompasses emissions from farming,
land use, food production and the food supply chain, all
of which are relevant to our operations.
As an industry leader committed to protecting the
environment, we shoulder the responsibility to actively
pursue and implement sustainable measures that may
reduce our carbon footprint. Through our efforts, we can
set an exemplary role in environmental stewardship for
other Malaysian and regional dairy farming communities,
while simultaneously bolstering the sustainability of our
operations and enhancing our reputation amongst
consumers.
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Our emissions originate from different sources, including
methane produced during enteric fermentation, nitrous
oxide released from fertilisers, carbon dioxide generated
by tillage and the combustion of fossil fuels for powering
machinery across our farms and processing facilities.
In seeking to reduce our footprint, we have implemented
regenerative agriculture practices and have adopted the
use of renewable energy across many of our farms and
facilities. We also conducted our first carbon emissions
inventory in 2021, enabling us to identify actionable
strategies for emissions reduction that we are gradually
implementing throughout our value chain.
Reducing Nitrous Oxide Emissions
Our use of treated animal waste for pasture fertilisation,
which is a key component of our regenerative agriculture
practices, reduces our use of traditional chemical fertilisers
that release Nitrous Oxide, a potent greenhouse gas, into
the atmosphere. With vermicompost offering the added
advantage of improving soil quality, we unlock the dual
benefits of producing superior feed for our cows while
minimising the environmental impact of our pasture
fertilisation practices.
At the same time, our efforts to treat and productively
repurpose animal waste also reduces the potential release
of Nitrous Oxide from untreated waste matter, further
mitigating carbon emissions from our farms.
Increasing Our Adoption of Renewable Energy
Our efforts to implement renewable energy use across
our operations are focused on the two most viable options
currently available – solar power and biogas production.
We have already installed photovoltaic (PV) technology
systems at two of our Malaysian farms to harness the high
potential of solar power in tropical climates. Our rooftop
solar projects at Muadzam Shah and Larkin are capable of
generating clean energy at a peak power of 1,025.07 kWp
and 689.02 kWp respectively, while an additional PV system
with a capacity of 525.03 kWp is planned for our Taiping
facility and expected to commence operation in 2024.
We are also leveraging the well-established regenerative
agricultural practices implemented at our Muadzam Shah
farm to launch our first on-site biogas plant. This joint
venture project with Green Lagoon Technologies Sdn Bhd,
a leading integrator of biogas technologies in Malaysia,
will entail the construction of a new facility that utilises
the manure produced by our herd to produce biofuel.
As part of our agreement with Green Lagoon Technologies
Sdn Bhd, we will receive a discount on fuel purchased
of up to 25% compared to the monthly average industrial
diesel rate.
The new plant is expected to be operational by the end
of 2023 and will contribute to an estimated reduction of
9,800 tCO
2
per annum and an estimated displacement
or reduction of diesel usage of 670,000 litres per annum.
We are currently in talks to launch a similar biogas project
at our Taiping farm.
By gradually incorporating renewable energy sources into
our operations, we are actively decreasing our reliance
on the Malaysian national power grid and growing our
contribution to the broader renewable energy ecosystem.
164
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Climate Action
Undertaking A Group-wide Carbon Inventory
Following on from our inaugural Group-wide carbon
footprint inventory exercise for the calendar year 2020,
which was conducted in July 2021, we have engaged an
independent third party, Eco-Ideal Consulting Sdn Bhd,
which utilised the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard to monitor carbon emissions for
the calendar year 2022 across our farms and processing
facilities in both Malaysia and Australia.
We identify and calculate emissions across all three scopes:
• Scope 1 GHG emissions, which mainly comprise direct
emissions from machinery, equipment and motor
vehicles operated at our farms and processing facilities,
as well as enteric fermentation, manure management
and soil management at our farms
• Scope 2 GHG emissions, which encompass emissions
from the electricity we consume in operating machinery
and equipment at our farms and processing facilities
• Scope 3 GHG emissions, which comprise indirect
emissions not recognised in Scope 2 as well as
emissions from business travel, including by car, train
and flight
Our monitoring efforts have enabled us to calculate the
emissions intensity of our Malaysian and Australian farms,
which we are pleased to report remain well below the
average of dairy farms in Asia and Oceania, reflecting the
success of our ongoing efforts to adopt responsible
farming and energy conservation practices.
The data we have compiled through monitoring will also
inform the development of improved emissions reduction
strategies in our quest to minimise our Group-wide carbon
footprint.
1. Our latest GHG inventory exercise was completed in July 2023 by an external consultant, Eco-Ideal Consulting Sdn Bhd, based on the GHG
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard by World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD).
Future Plans
The insights revealed in our carbon footprint inventory exercise have helped us identify strategies for improving
our future performance, including:
• Replacing existing anaerobic lagoons with anaerobic digestion tanks at our Muadzam Shah Farm, thereby
enabling us to use our farm-sourced manure to produce biofuel
• Installing solar thermal systems to reduce the use of diesel for our boiler and generator units
• Installing biogas and solar energy generation systems in the other farms and processing facilities we operate
In recognising that the ongoing expansion of our business will result in an overall increase in our GHG emissions,
we have pivoted towards reducing emissions intensity as our Group-wide focus. To this end, we aim to achieve
a 5% reduction in our Group-wide emissions intensity each year.
Our Performance
In FY2023, the scope of our carbon emissions monitoring1 was expanded to include our new Taiping farm as
well as the operations of St David Dairy in Australia, which was acquired in August 2022. We also expanded
Scope 3 monitoring to calculate indirect emissions from our employees commuting to and from work. This has
collectively resulted in an increase to our total Group-wide GHG emissions.
However, while our absolute emissions increased in line with our new facilities and expanded monitoring scope,
the report revealed that we were successful in reducing our Group-wide emissions intensity from 0.46 tCO
2
eq/
tonne of milk in 2020 to 0.42 tCO
2
eq/tonne of milk in 2022, representing a significant reduction of 9% in just
two years.
165
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Our Australian farms have an emissions intensity of
0.9kg CO
2
eq/kg FPCM
(31% lower than the average of dairy farms in Oceania)
Our Malaysian farms have an emissions intensity of
(17% lower than 2015 average of dairy farms in Asia)
FPCM = fat and protein corrected milk
Benchmarking of Our Emissions Against Dairy Farms in Asia and Oceania2
Total Emissions (tCO
2
eq)1
by Scope
Total Emissions (tCO
2
eq)
by Farms/Manufacturing Plants
Total Emissions (tCO
2
eq)
by Country of Operation
Australia
Malaysia
2022
2020
26%
74%
21%
79%
Processing Plants
Farms
2022
2020
33%
67%
37%
63%
Scope 3
Scope 1 Scope 2
2020
2022
1%
2%
23%
22%
76%
76%
1. tCO
2
eq stands for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
2. Based on comparison with report issued by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and Global Dairy Platform Inc. in
2019.
Description Daily Spread Compost % Decrease
Amount of manure discharged (kg N) 67,942 30,973 54.4%
GHG Emissions (tCO
2
eq/year) 433 202 53.3%
Reduced Emissions Due to Transition from Daily Spread to Composting of Manure
The table below illustrates the significant reduction in untreated manure discharged into the environment, along
with the corresponding decrease in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, resulting from our shift from daily spread
to composting of cow manure.
2.7kg CO
2
eq/kg FPCM
7RWDO (PLVVLRQVɅɅɅɅɅ&< Ȃ  W&2
2
HTɅɅɅɅɅ&< Ȃ  W&2
2
eq
166
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Climate Action
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Given the large volume of packaged goods we produce
annually, we recognise our responsibility to address various
sustainability concerns associated with packaging, such
as the source and volume of raw materials used, the
environmental impact of manufacturing processes
employed, the recyclability of the end product and the
packaging’s potential to help reduce food waste.
Furthermore, a growing number of consumers are actively
seeking FMCG brands that demonstrate strong sustainability
practices, with packaging being one of the most visible
factors in their decision-making process.
O
OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Our primary commitment is to prioritise sustainable
sourcing for our packaging materials, ensuring that they
come from sustainably and responsibly managed
rainforests. By sourcing our materials in this way, we aim
to minimise our long-term impact on natural resources
and contribute to their preservation.
We are also actively working to reduce the environmental
footprint of our products after they are consumed. As
we transition to using fully recyclable materials for all our
product varieties, we are concurrently developing initiatives
to actively engage and educate consumers, especially the
younger generation, on the importance of recycling and
the proper disposal of packaging materials.
Pioneering Milk Sold in Reusable Bottles
In September 2022, via our Milk on Tap initiative in collaboration with Jaya Grocer, we have pioneered fresh milk
sold in reusable glass bottles. This trailblazing move will provide impetus to the dairy industry to reduce plastics
usage significantly via this eco-friendly way of buying milk. With four Milk on Tap stations currently in operation, we
are set to commence operations at a further three locations in the second half of 2023. Our goal here is to
increasingly reduce the proliferation of single-use plastics and reduce the load at landfills, which has proven to be
a success as reflected by the increasing popularity of Milk on Tap amongst our consumers. From September 2022
to June 2023, the Milk on Tap initiative has contributed to the reduction in usage of 140,000 plastic bottles,
simultaneously avoiding the usage of more than 7,300kg of plastic for packaging.
167
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Sustainable Packaging
Future Plans
• We will expand our Milk on Tap intitiative to more retail outlets and educate the public on reducing plastics
usage, encouraging the use of reusable glass bottles
• We aim to launch sustainability-linked supplier criteria within the next two to three years, which will include
criteria on sustainably sourced packaging
• We will continue to engage and educate youth on the importance of recycling via school-based campaigns
Our Performance
Our sales of finished goods that use fully recyclable and FSC® certified Tetra Pak packaging has increased by
5% over the past year, from 28% to 35.5% of total sales in FY2023.
Adopting Sustainably Sourced and Recyclable
Packaging
Since 2018, we have adopted Tetra Pak paper packaging
for our UHT products, which is composed of 75% paper,
20% plastic and 5% aluminium, making it fully recyclable.
The paperboard used in this packaging is also FSC®
Forest Stewardship Council certified, meaning that it comes
from responsibly managed forests and controlled sources.
By choosing Tetra Pak packaging, we actively support the
sustainable management of forests, which encompasses
considerations such as upholding the rights of indigenous
peoples, contributing to local communities’ social and
economic well-being, and conserving ecosystem services
and environmental values.
Moving forward, we are committed to working with
packaging suppliers who share a similarly strong
commitment to sustainability. To this end, we will establish
specific sustainability criteria for suppliers, focusing on
both ingredients and packaging materials, while striving
to evaluate a significant portion of our key suppliers using
detailed sustainability assessment templates that include
criteria for sustainable packaging. This approach will ensure
that our packaging supply chain aligns with our sustainability
goals.
Instilling Recycling Practices Amongst
Malaysians
We recognise that recyclable packaging is only effective
when it is actually recycled. Thus, we are consistently
seeking opportunities to spread awareness and promote
recycling as a regular practice among Malaysians.
In 2022, we established a recycling education centre at
our UPM farm in collaboration with Tetra Pak. The centre’s
primary goal is to raise awareness about the recyclability
of our packaging and educate consumers on adopting
simple and impactful recycling habits in their daily lives,
both at home and in the workplace. Through this initiative,
we aim to empower individuals with the knowledge and
tools they need to contribute to a more sustainable future
through proper recycling practices.
168
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Sustainable Packaging
Statement of Use
Farm Fresh Berhad has reported the information cited in this GRI Content
Index for the period of 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023 in accordance
with the GRI Standards.
GRI Version GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Gri Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General
Disclosures
2021
2-1 Organisational details Who We Are, Pages 10-13
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability
reporting
About this Statement, Page 139
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Statement, Page 139
2-4 Restatements of information About This Statement, Page 139
2-5 External assurance About This Statement, Page 139
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business
relationships
Our Core Business Segments,
Pages 18-19
2-7 Employees Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
2-8 Workers who are not employees Information unavailable. Steps are
being taken to include the information
in the next Report
2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest
governance body
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing
the management of impacts
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 1118-120
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in
sustainability reporting
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance
body
Directors’ Training, Pages 121-123
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance
body
Chairman’s Overview on Corporate
Governance, Pages 116-117
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest
governance body
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Pages 118-120
2-19 Remuneration policies Remuneration, Pages 123-124
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Remuneration, Pages 123-124
169
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
GRI Content Index
Gri Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General
Disclosures
2021
(continued)
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable. Steps are
being taken to include the information
in the next Report
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Sustainability Statement, Page 138
2-23 Policy commitments Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising
concerns
Sustainability Governance, Page 145
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Determining What Matters, Page 143
2-28 Membership associations About This Statement, Page 139
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging our Stakeholders, Page 142
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Determining What Matters, Page 143
3-2 List of material topics Our Sustainability Material Matters,
Page 144
3-3 Management of material topics Our Sustainability Focus Areas,
Page 141
Our Sustainability Material Matters,
Page 144
Producing Healthy Products, Page 147
Animal Health and Welfare,
Pages 148-149
Food Safety and Quality,
Pages 150-151
Local Economy Contribution,
Pages 153-154
Youth Outreach, Page 155
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
Regenerative Agriculture,
Pages 159-161
Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
Climate Action, Pages 164-166
Sustainable Packaging, Pages 167-168
GRI 203:
Indirect
Economic
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services
supported
Local Economy Contribution,
Pages 153-154
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Local Economy Contribution,
Pages 153-154
GRI 301:
Materials 2016
301-2 Recycled input materials used Sustainable Packaging, Pages 167-168
GRI 302: Energy
2016
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Action, Pages 164-166
170
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
GRI Content Index
Gri Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 303: Water
and Effluents
2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
303-3 Water withdrawal Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
303-4 Water discharge Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
303-5 Water consumption Responsible Water Stewardship,
Pages 162-163
GRI 305:
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate Action, Pages 164-166
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate Action, Pages 164-166
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Action, Pages 164-166
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate Action, Pages 164-166
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Action, Pages 164-166
GRI 306: Waste
2020
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Regenerative Agriculture,
Pages 159-161
GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and
Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management
system
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and
incident investigation
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-3 Occupational health services Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and
communication on occupational health and safety
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and
safety
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health
and safety impacts directly linked by business
relationships
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and
safety management system
Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
403-9 Work-related injuries Employee Welfare, Pages 156-157
GRI 413: Local
Communities
2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development programs
Youth Outreach, Page 155
GRI 416:
Customer
Health and
Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts
of product and service categories
Producing Healthy Products, Page 147
Food Safety and Quality,
Pages 150-151
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the
health and safety impacts of products and services
Food Safety and Quality,
Pages 150-151
171
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
7
7
Financial
Statements
174 Directors’ Report
180 Statement by Directors
180 Statutory Declaration
181 Independent Auditors’ Report
185 Statements of Financial Position
186 6WDWHPHQWV RI 3URȴW RU /RVV DQG 2WKHU &RPSUHKHQVLYH ΖQFRPH
187 6WDWHPHQW RI &KDQJHV LQ (TXLW\
189 6WDWHPHQWV RI &DVK )ORZV
193 1RWHV WR WKH )LQDQFLDO 6WDWHPHQWV
HIGHLIGHTS:
Statement
by Directors
pg
180
Notes to the
Financial
Statements
pg
193 8
7KH 'LUHFWRUV KDYH SOHDVXUH LQ VXEPLWWLQJ WKHLU UHSRUW DQG WKH DXGLWHG ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
7KH SULQFLSDO DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH LQYHVWPHQW KROGLQJ UHDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG WKH SURGXFWLRQ PDUNHWLQJ
VDOH RI FRZȇV PLON DQG SODQWEDVHG UHODWHG SURGXFWV 7KH SULQFLSDO DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH VXEVLGLDULHV DUH GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH
 WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV 7KHUH KDV EHHQ QR VLJQLILFDQW FKDQJH LQ WKH QDWXUH RI WKHVH DFWLYLWLHV GXULQJ WKH
ILQDQFLDO \HDU
SUBSIDIARIES
7KH GHWDLOV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VXEVLGLDULHV DUH GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH  WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the year attributable to:
2ZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\  
1RQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV  –
 
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
7KHUH ZHUH QR PDWHULDO WUDQVIHUV WR RU IURP UHVHUYHV DQG SURYLVLRQV GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU XQGHU UHYLHZ H[FHSW
DV GLVFORVHG LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
DIVIDENDS
6LQFH WKH HQG RI WKH SUHYLRXV ILQDQFLDO \HDU LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  D ILQDO GLYLGHQG
RI  VHQ SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH WRWDOOLQJ 50 ZDV GHFODUHG RQ  -XO\  DQG SDLG RQ  6HSWHPEHU

7KH 'LUHFWRUV UHFRPPHQGHG D ILQDO GLYLGHQG RI  VHQ SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH WRWDOOLQJ 50 LQ UHVSHFW RI
WKH \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  VXEMHFW WR WKH DSSURYDO RI WKH VKDUHKROGHUV DW WKH IRUWKFRPLQJ $QQXDO *HQHUDO
0HHWLQJ
7KHVH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV GR QRW UHIOHFW WKH SURSRVHG ILQDO GLYLGHQG ZKLFK ZLOO EH DFFRXQWHG IRU LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW
RI FKDQJHV LQ HTXLW\ DV DQ DSSURSULDWLRQ RI UHWDLQHG HDUQLQJV LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGLQJ  0DUFK 
174
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
'LUHFWRUV ZKR VHUYHG GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU XQWLO WKH GDWH RI WKLV UHSRUW DUH
0U /RL 7XDQ (H 
7DQ 6UL 'DWRȇ 6HUL +DML 0HJDW 1DMPXGGLQ ELQ 'DWXN 6HUL 'U +DML 0HJDW .KDV
'DWRȇ 'U 4XD]D 1L]DPXGGLQ ELQ $ +DVVDQ 1L]DP
0U 6XNDQWD .XPDU 'XWW
0V -RFHO\Q 1J /DL /HQJ
0V /RL )RRQ .LRQ
0U (IIL]DO )DL] ELQ =XONLIO\
 0U /RL 7XDQ (H LV DOVR D 'LUHFWRU RI WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VXEVLGLDULHV
7KH QDPH RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VXEVLGLDULHV LQ RIILFH VLQFH WKH EHJLQQLQJ RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU WR WKH
GDWH RI WKLV UHSRUW QRW LQFOXGLQJ WKRVH 'LUHFWRUV OLVWHG DERYH DUH
0U /RL 7XDQ .LQ
0U $]PL ELQ =DLQDO
0U 0RKG .KDLUXO ELQ 0DW +DVVDQ
0V -DPDOLDK ELQWL 2WKPDQ
0U $GDP *UDHPH 3UHWW\
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
7KH LQWHUHVWV DQG GHHPHG LQWHUHVWV LQ WKH VKDUHV DQG RSWLRQV RYHU VKDUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG RI LWV UHODWHG
FRUSRUDWLRQV RWKHU WKDQ ZKROO\RZQHG VXEVLGLDULHV RI WKRVH ZKR ZHUH 'LUHFWRUV DW ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQG LQFOXGLQJ WKH
LQWHUHVWV RI WKH VSRXVHV RU FKLOGUHQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV ZKR WKHPVHOYHV DUH QRW 'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV UHFRUGHG
LQ WKH 5HJLVWHU RI 'LUHFWRUVȇ 6KDUHKROGLQJV DUH DV IROORZV
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2022 Bought Transfer 31.3.2023
Shareholdings in the Company which
Directors have direct interests:
0U /RL 7XDQ (H    –
7DQ 6UL 'DWRȇ 6HUL +DML 0HJDW 1DMPXGGLQ ELQ
'DWXN 6HUL 'U +DML 0HJDW .KDV  – – 500,000
'DWRȇ 'U 4XD]D 1L]DPXGGLQ ELQ $ +DVVDQ 1L]DP  – – 500,000
0V -RFHO\Q 1J /DL /HQJ  – – 500,000
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2022 Transfer Sold 31.3.2023
Shareholdings in the Company which
the Directors have deemed interests:
0U /RL 7XDQ (H    828,528,636
0V /RL )RRQ .LRQ  – – 571,011,515
%\ YLUWXH RI WKHLU LQWHUHVWV RI PRUH WKDQ  LQ WKH VKDUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ 0U /RL 7XDQ (H DQG 0V /RL )RRQ .LRQ
DUH GHHPHG WR KDYH LQWHUHVWV LQ WKH RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV RI DOO VXEVLGLDULHV GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW
WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV DQ LQWHUHVW
175
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES (CONTINUED)
'HWDLOV RI WKHLU GHHPHG LQWHUHVWV LQ QRQZKROO\ RZQHG VXEVLGLDULHV DUH DV IROORZV
Number of ordinary shares
1.4.2022 Bought Transfer 31.3.2023
Held through Farm Fresh Berhad:
7KH +ROVWHLQ 0LON &RPSDQ\ $XVWUDOLD 3W\ /WG  – – 11,503,524
Held through The Holstein Milk Company
(Australia) Pty Ltd:
*RXOEXUQ 9DOOH\ &UHDPHU\ 3W\ /WG  – – 80
+HQU\ -RQHV )RRGV 3W\ /WG  – – 80
Held through Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd:
6W 'DYLG 'DLU\ 3W\ /WG –  – 72
1RQH RI WKH RWKHU 'LUHFWRUV KROGLQJ RIILFH DW  0DUFK  KDG DQ\ LQWHUHVW LQ WKH VKDUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG
RI LWV UHODWHG FRUSRUDWLRQV GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
1RQH RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV KROGLQJ RIILFH DW  0DUFK  KDYH DQ\ HQWLWOHPHQW XQGHU WKH (PSOR\HHVȇ 6KDUH 2SWLRQ
6FKHPH Ȋ(626ȋ RI WKH &RPSDQ\ GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
6LQFH WKH HQG RI WKH SUHYLRXV ILQDQFLDO \HDU QR 'LUHFWRU RI WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV UHFHLYHG QRU EHFRPH HQWLWOHG WR UHFHLYH
DQ\ EHQHILW RWKHU WKDQ WKRVH VKRZQ EHORZ E\ UHDVRQ RI D FRQWUDFW PDGH E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ RU D UHODWHG FRUSRUDWLRQ
ZLWK WKH 'LUHFWRU RU ZLWK D ILUP RI ZKLFK WKH 'LUHFWRU LV D PHPEHU RU ZLWK D FRPSDQ\ LQ ZKLFK WKH 'LUHFWRU KDV D
VXEVWDQWLDO ILQDQFLDO LQWHUHVW RWKHU WKDQ GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH  WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
7KH 'LUHFWRUVȇ EHQHILWV SDLG WR RU UHFHLYDEOH E\ 'LUHFWRUV LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  DUH
DV IROORZV
From the
Company
RM
From a
subsidiary
RM
'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\
Fees  –
Remuneration – 
 
7KHUH ZHUH QR DUUDQJHPHQWV GXULQJ DQG DW WKH HQG RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU ZKLFK KDG WKH REMHFW RI HQDEOLQJ 'LUHFWRUV
RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR DFTXLUH EHQHILWV E\ PHDQV RI WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ RI VKDUHV LQ RU GHEHQWXUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ RU
DQ\ RWKHU ERG\ FRUSRUDWH
176
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023 (Continued)
ISSUE OF SHARES
'XULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU WKH &RPSDQ\ LVVXHG  QHZ RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV WRWDOOLQJ 50 DULVLQJ IURP WKH
H[HUFLVH RI WKH HPSOR\HHVȇ VKDUH RSWLRQV DW DQ H[HUFLVH SULFH RI 50 SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH
7KHUH ZHUH QR RWKHU FKDQJHV LQ WKH LVVXHG DQG SDLGXS FDSLWDO RI WKH &RPSDQ\ GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
1R RSWLRQV ZHUH JUDQWHG WR DQ\ SHUVRQ WR WDNH XS DQ\ XQLVVXHG VKDUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
DSDUW IURP WKH LVVXH RI RSWLRQV SXUVXDQW WR WKH (626
$W DQ ([WUDRUGLQDU\ *HQHUDO 0HHWLQJ KHOG RQ  0DUFK  WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VKDUHKROGHUV DSSURYHG WKH HVWDEOLVKPHQW
RI WKH (626 RI QRW PRUH WKDQ  RI WKH LVVXHG DQG SDLGXS RUGLQDU\ VKDUH FDSLWDO RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR HOLJLEOH
'LUHFWRUV DQG HPSOR\HHV RI WKH *URXS
7KH VDOLHQW IHDWXUHV RI WKH (626 DUH DV IROORZV
D 7KH (626 LV DGPLQLVWHUHG E\ D FRPPLWWHH DSSRLQWHG E\ WKH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV
E 7KH DJJUHJDWH QXPEHU RI RSWLRQV H[HUFLVHG DQG RSWLRQV RIIHUHG DQG WR EH RIIHUHG XQGHU WKH (626 VKDOO QRW
H[FHHG ILIWHHQ SHU FHQWXP  RI WKH LVVXHG DQG SDLGXS RUGLQDU\ VKDUH FDSLWDO RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DW DQ\ SRLQW
RI WLPH GXULQJ WKH GXUDWLRQ RI WKH (626 DQG VKDOO QRW EH PRUH WKDQ WHQ SHU FHQWXP  RI WKH RUGLQDU\
VKDUHV DYDLODEOH XQGHU WKH (626 VKDOO EH DOORFDWHG WR DQ\ HOLJLEOH HPSOR\HH ZKR HLWKHU VLQJO\ RU FROOHFWLYHO\
WKURXJK KLV RU KHU DVVRFLDWHV KROGV WZHQW\ SHU FHQWXP  RU PRUH RI WKH LVVXHG DQG SDLGXS RUGLQDU\ VKDUH
FDSLWDO RI WKH &RPSDQ\
F 7KH HOLJLEOH HPSOR\HH PXVW EH DW OHDVW HLJKWHHQ  \HDUV RI DJH LV QRW DQ XQGLVFKDUJHG EDQNUXSW QRU VXEMHFW
WR DQ\ EDQNUXSWF\ SURFHHGLQJV PXVW KDYH EHHQ FRQILUPHG LQ VHUYLFH DQG KDV QRW JLYHQ DQ\ QRWLFH RI UHVLJQDWLRQ
RU UHFHLYHG D QRWLFH RI WHUPLQDWLRQ RU KDV RWKHUZLVH FHDVHG RU KDG KLVKHU HPSOR\PHQW WHUPLQDWHG
G 7KH VXEVFULSWLRQ SULFH IRU HDFK RUGLQDU\ VKDUH VKDOO EH WKH ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH PDUNHW SULFH RI WKH VKDUHV RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ DV VKRZQ LQ WKH 'DLO\ 2IILFLDO /LVW LVVXHG E\ %XUVD 6HFXULWLHV IRU WKH ILYH  PDUNHW GD\V LPPHGLDWHO\
SUHFHGLQJ WKH GDWH RI WKH RIIHU ZLWK D GLVFRXQW RI QRW PRUH WKDQ WHQ SHU FHQWXP 
H 7KH RSWLRQ LV SHUVRQDO WR WKH JUDQWHH DQG LV QRQDVVLJQDEOH
I 7KH (626 VKDOO EH LQ IRUFH IRU D SHULRG RI WHQ  \HDUV FRPPHQFLQJ IURP WKH (IIHFWLYH 'DWH  0DUFK 
DIWHU ZKLFK WKH %RDUG VKDOO KDYH WKH VROH DQG DEVROXWH GLVFUHWLRQ WR H[WHQG LQ ZULWLQJ WKH WHQXUH RI WKH (626
IRU DQRWKHU ILYH  \HDUV LQ VR ORQJ WKDW WKH WHQXUH GRHV QRW H[FHHG WKH PD[LPXP GXUDWLRQ RI D VKDUH LVVXDQFH
VFKHPH DOORZHG E\ WKH UHOHYDQW DXWKRULWLHV
7KH PRYHPHQWV LQ RXWVWDQGLQJ RSWLRQV RIIHUHG WR WDNH XS XQLVVXHG RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV DQG WKH H[HUFLVH SULFH LV DV
IROORZV
Number of options (’000)
'DWHRIR΍HU
Exercise
price 1.4.2022 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31.3.2023
 0DUFK  50 –    22,034
177
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COSTS
'XULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU WKH WRWDO DPRXQW RI LQVXUDQFH SUHPLXP HIIHFWHG IRU 'LUHFWRUV DQG RIILFHUV RI WKH *URXS
LV 50 7KHUH LV QR LQGHPQLW\ DQG LQVXUDQFH SXUFKDVHG IRU WKH DXGLWRUV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\
QUALIFICATION OF SUBSIDIARIES’ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7KH DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUWV RQ WKH DXGLWHG ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI &RPSDQ\ȇV VXEVLGLDULHV GLG QRW FRQWDLQ DQ\ TXDOLILFDWLRQ
RU DQ\ DGYHUVH FRPPHQWV
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
%HIRUH WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ ZHUH PDGH RXW WKH 'LUHFWRUV WRRN UHDVRQDEOH
VWHSV WR DVFHUWDLQ WKDW
L DOO NQRZQ EDG GHEWV KDYH EHHQ ZULWWHQ RII DQG DGHTXDWH SURYLVLRQ KDV EHHQ PDGH IRU GRXEWIXO GHEWV DQG
LL DQ\ FXUUHQW DVVHWV ZKLFK ZHUH XQOLNHO\ WR EH UHDOLVHG LQ WKH RUGLQDU\ FRXUVH RI EXVLQHVV KDYH EHHQ ZULWWHQ
GRZQ WR DQ DPRXQW ZKLFK WKH\ PLJKW EH H[SHFWHG VR WR UHDOLVH
$W WKH GDWH RI WKLV UHSRUW WKH 'LUHFWRUV DUH QRW DZDUH RI DQ\ FLUFXPVWDQFHV
L WKDW ZRXOG UHQGHU WKH DPRXQW ZULWWHQ RII IRU EDG GHEWV RU WKH DPRXQW RI WKH SURYLVLRQ IRU GRXEWIXO GHEWV LQ
WKH *URXS DQG LQ WKH &RPSDQ\ LQDGHTXDWH WR DQ\ VXEVWDQWLDO H[WHQW RU
LL WKDW ZRXOG UHQGHU WKH YDOXH DWWULEXWHG WR WKH FXUUHQW DVVHWV LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI
WKH &RPSDQ\ PLVOHDGLQJ RU
LLL ZKLFK KDYH DULVHQ ZKLFK UHQGHU DGKHUHQFH WR WKH H[LVWLQJ PHWKRG RI YDOXDWLRQ RI DVVHWV RU OLDELOLWLHV RI WKH
*URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ PLVOHDGLQJ RU LQDSSURSULDWH RU
LY QRW RWKHUZLVH GHDOW ZLWK LQ WKLV UHSRUW RU WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV WKDW ZRXOG UHQGHU DQ\ DPRXQW VWDWHG LQ WKH
ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ PLVOHDGLQJ
$W WKH GDWH RI WKLV UHSRUW WKHUH GRHV QRW H[LVW
L DQ\ FKDUJH RQ WKH DVVHWV RI WKH *URXS RU RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WKDW KDV DULVHQ VLQFH WKH HQG RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
DQG ZKLFK VHFXUHV WKH OLDELOLWLHV RI DQ\ RWKHU SHUVRQ RU
LL DQ\ FRQWLQJHQW OLDELOLW\ LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH *URXS RU RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WKDW KDV DULVHQ VLQFH WKH HQG RI WKH ILQDQFLDO
\HDU
1R FRQWLQJHQW OLDELOLW\ RU RWKHU OLDELOLW\ RI DQ\ FRPSDQ\ LQ WKH *URXS KDV EHFRPH HQIRUFHDEOH RU LV OLNHO\ WR EHFRPH
HQIRUFHDEOH ZLWKLQ WKH SHULRG RI WZHOYH PRQWKV DIWHU WKH HQG RI WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU ZKLFK LQ WKH RSLQLRQ RI WKH
'LUHFWRUV ZLOO RU PD\ VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DIIHFW WKH DELOLW\ RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR PHHW WKHLU REOLJDWLRQV DV
DQG ZKHQ WKH\ IDOO GXH
ΖQ WKH RSLQLRQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV WKH ILQDQFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
HQGHG  0DUFK  KDYH QRW EHHQ VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DIIHFWHG E\ DQ\ LWHP WUDQVDFWLRQ RU HYHQW RI D PDWHULDO DQG
XQXVXDO QDWXUH QRU KDV DQ\ VXFK LWHP WUDQVDFWLRQ RU HYHQW RFFXUUHG LQ WKH LQWHUYDO EHWZHHQ WKH HQG RI WKDW ILQDQFLDO
\HDU DQG WKH GDWH RI WKLV UHSRUW
178
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023 (Continued)
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
6XEVHTXHQW HYHQWV DUH GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH  WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
AUDITORS
7KH DXGLWRUV .30* 3/7 KDYH LQGLFDWHG WKHLU ZLOOLQJQHVV WR DFFHSW UHDSSRLQWPHQW
7KH GHWDLOV RI UHPXQHUDWLRQ SDLG E\ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ WR DXGLWRUV RI WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ GXULQJ
WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU DUH DV IROORZV
Group
RM
Company
RM
Auditors’ remuneration
Statutory audit
Ȃ .30* 3/7 277,000 110,000
Ȃ 2WKHU DXGLWRU 222,431 –
1RQDXGLW IHH
Ȃ .30* 3/7
Ȃ 5HYLHZ RI LQWHULP ILQDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ 247,500 247,500
Ȃ 5HYLHZ RI 6WDWHPHQW RI 5LVN 0DQDJHPHQW DQG ΖQWHUQDO &RQWURO 10,000 10,000
Ȃ /RFDO DIILOLDWHV RI .30* 3/7
Ȃ 7D[ VHUYLFHV DQG ILQDQFLDO GXH GLOLJHQFH 314,000 20,000
Ȃ 2WKHU DXGLWRU
Ȃ 7D[ VHUYLFHV 134,529 –
1,205,460 387,500
6LJQHG RQ EHKDOI RI WKH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK D UHVROXWLRQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV
ȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐ
Loi Tuan Ee
Director
ȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐ
Loi Foon Kion
Director
'DWH  -XO\ 
179
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
ΖQ WKH RSLQLRQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV VHW RXW RQ SDJHV  WR  DUH GUDZQ XS LQ DFFRUGDQFH
ZLWK 0DOD\VLDQ )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV DQG WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI
WKH &RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD VR DV WR JLYH D WUXH DQG IDLU YLHZ RI WKH ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ RI WKH *URXS DQG RI
WKH &RPSDQ\ DV RI  0DUFK  DQG RI WKHLU ILQDQFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH DQG FDVK IORZV IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU WKHQ
HQGHG
6LJQHG RQ EHKDOI RI WKH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK D UHVROXWLRQ RI WKH 'LUHFWRUV
ȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐ
Loi Tuan Ee
Director
ȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐ
Loi Foon Kion
Director
'DWH  -XO\ 
Ζ Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan WKH RIILFHU SULPDULO\ UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO PDQDJHPHQW RI )$50 )5(6+
%(5+$' GR VROHPQO\ DQG VLQFHUHO\ GHFODUH WKDW WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV VHW RXW RQ SDJHV  WR  DUH WR WKH
EHVW RI P\ NQRZOHGJH DQG EHOLHI FRUUHFW DQG Ζ PDNH WKLV VROHPQ GHFODUDWLRQ FRQVFLHQWLRXVO\ EHOLHYLQJ WKH GHFODUDWLRQ
WR EH WUXH DQG E\ YLUWXH RI WKH 6WDWXWRU\ 'HFODUDWLRQV $FW 
6XEVFULEHG DQG VROHPQO\ GHFODUHG E\ WKH DERYHQDPHG 0RKG .KDLUXO ELQ 0DW +DVVDQ 15Ζ&  0Ζ$
&$  DW -RKRU %DKUX LQ WKH 6WDWH RI -RKRU RQ  -XO\ 
ȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐȐ
Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan
%HIRUH PH
/DX /D\ 6XQJ
&RPPLVVLRQHU IRU 2DWKV
-
180
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statement by Directors
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
Statutory Declaration
Pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
:H KDYH DXGLWHG WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI )DUP )UHVK %HUKDG ZKLFK FRPSULVH WKH VWDWHPHQWV RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
DV DW  0DUFK  RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG WKH VWDWHPHQWV RI SURILW RU ORVV DQG RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH
LQFRPH VWDWHPHQWV RI FKDQJHV LQ HTXLW\ DQG VWDWHPHQWV RI FDVK IORZV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ IRU WKH
\HDU WKHQ HQGHG DQG QRWHV WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV LQFOXGLQJ D VXPPDU\ RI VLJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DV
VHW RXW RQ SDJHV  WR 
ΖQ RXU RSLQLRQ WKH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV JLYH D WUXH DQG IDLU YLHZ RI WKH ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ RI WKH *URXS
DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV DW  0DUFK  DQG RI WKHLU ILQDQFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH DQG WKHLU FDVK IORZV IRU WKH \HDU WKHQ
HQGHG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK 0DOD\VLDQ )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV DQG
WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD
Basis for Opinion
:H FRQGXFWHG RXU DXGLW LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK DSSURYHG VWDQGDUGV RQ DXGLWLQJ LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO 6WDQGDUGV
RQ $XGLWLQJ 2XU UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV XQGHU WKRVH VWDQGDUGV DUH IXUWKHU GHVFULEHG LQ WKH Auditors’ Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements VHFWLRQ RI RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW :H EHOLHYH WKDW WKH DXGLW HYLGHQFH ZH KDYH REWDLQHG
LV VXIILFLHQW DQG DSSURSULDWH WR SURYLGH D EDVLV IRU RXU RSLQLRQ
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
:H DUH LQGHSHQGHQW RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) RI WKH 0DOD\VLDQ ΖQVWLWXWH RI $FFRXQWDQWV Ȋ%\/DZVȋ DQG WKH ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO (WKLFV 6WDQGDUGV %RDUG IRU
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
ȊΖ(6%$ &RGHȋ DQG ZH KDYH IXOILOOHG RXU RWKHU HWKLFDO UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH %\/DZV DQG WKH Ζ(6%$
&RGH
Key Audit Matters
.H\ DXGLW PDWWHUV DUH WKRVH PDWWHUV WKDW LQ RXU SURIHVVLRQDO MXGJHPHQW ZHUH RI PRVW VLJQLILFDQFH LQ RXU DXGLW RI
WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ IRU WKH FXUUHQW \HDU 7KHVH PDWWHUV ZHUH DGGUHVVHG LQ
WKH FRQWH[W RI RXU DXGLW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV D ZKROH DQG LQ IRUPLQJ
RXU RSLQLRQ WKHUHRQ DQG ZH GR QRW SURYLGH D VHSDUDWH RSLQLRQ RQ WKHVH PDWWHUV
Valuation of biological assets – Group and Company
5HIHU WR 1RWH J Ȃ 6LJQLILFDQW DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DQG 1RWH  Ȃ %LRORJLFDO DVVHWV
The key audit matter
7KH *URXS DQG &RPSDQ\ KHOG 50 PLOOLRQ DQG 50 PLOOLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV UHVSHFWLYHO\ FRPSULVLQJ FRZV
JRDW KHUGV DQG EXOOV PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH OHVV FRVW WR VHOO DV DW  0DUFK  ΖQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH IDLU YDOXH RI
WKH ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ XVHG UHSODFHPHQW FRVW DSSURDFK DQG FRPSDULVRQ DSSURDFK :H
KDYH LGHQWLILHG WKH YDOXDWLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV DV D NH\ DXGLW PDWWHU EHFDXVH WKH GHWHUPLQDWLRQ RI WKH IDLU YDOXHV
UHTXLUHG VLJQLILFDQW MXGJHPHQW LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH SULFH SHU KHDG RI FRPSDUDEOH EUHHG ZHLJKW DJH JURXS DQG IRUHLJQ
H[FKDQJH UDWH
181
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
How the matter was addressed in our audit
:H SHUIRUPHG WKH IROORZLQJ DXGLW SURFHGXUHV DPRQJVW RWKHUV
ȏ :H KDYH SHUIRUPHG SK\VLFDO FRXQWLQJ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV
ȏ :H KDYH HYDOXDWHG WKH YDOXDWLRQ WHFKQLTXHV DGRSWHG LQ HVWLPDWLQJ WKH IDLU YDOXH ZLWK UHIHUHQFH WR WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV
RI UHOHYDQW DFFRXQWLQJ VWDQGDUGV RXU EXVLQHVV XQGHUVWDQGLQJ DQG LQGXVWU\ SUDFWLFH
ȏ :H KDYH FKHFNHG WKH NH\ LQSXWV XVHG LQ WKH YDOXDWLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV UHSRUW DV DW \HDU HQG
ȏ :H KDYH HYDOXDWHG WKH MXGJHPHQW DQG WKH NH\ DVVXPSWLRQV SHUWDLQLQJ WR WKH SULFH SHU ELRORJLFDO DVVHW RI
FRPSDUDEOH EUHHG ZHLJKW DJH JURXS LQFLGHQWDO FRVWV DQG IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH UDWH DJDLQVW PDUNHW GDWD
ȏ ZKHUH D FRPSRQHQW DXGLWRU ZDV LQYROYHG LQ SHUIRUPLQJ WKH DXGLW ZH DVVHVVHG WKH FRPSHWHQF\ RI WKH DXGLWRU
LQWHUYLHZHG WKH FRPSRQHQW DXGLWRU DQG UHYLHZHG WKH DXGLW ZRUNSDSHUV SUHSDUHG WR GHWHUPLQH ZKHWKHU VXIILFLHQW
DQG DSSURSULDWH DXGLW SURFHGXUHV KDG EHHQ SHUIRUPHG E\ WKH FRPSRQHQW DXGLWRU DQG
ȏ :H KDYH DVVHVVHG WKH DGHTXDF\ RI GLVFORVXUH LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV DV UHTXLUHG E\ WKH UHOHYDQW DFFRXQWLQJ
VWDQGDUGV
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
7KH 'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ 7KH RWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ FRPSULVHV WKH
LQIRUPDWLRQ LQFOXGHG LQ WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW EXW GRHV QRW LQFOXGH WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ DQG RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW WKHUHRQ
2XU RSLQLRQ RQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ GRHV QRW FRYHU WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW DQG
ZH GR QRW H[SUHVV DQ\ IRUP RI DVVXUDQFH FRQFOXVLRQ WKHUHRQ
ΖQ FRQQHFWLRQ ZLWK RXU DXGLW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ RXU UHVSRQVLELOLW\ LV WR
UHDG WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW DQG LQ GRLQJ VR FRQVLGHU ZKHWKHU WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW LV PDWHULDOO\ LQFRQVLVWHQW ZLWK WKH
ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ RU RXU NQRZOHGJH REWDLQHG LQ WKH DXGLW RU RWKHUZLVH DSSHDUV
WR EH PDWHULDOO\ PLVVWDWHG ΖI EDVHG RQ WKH ZRUN ZH KDYH SHUIRUPHG ZH FRQFOXGH WKDW WKHUH LV D PDWHULDO PLVVWDWHPHQW
RI WKH DQQXDO UHSRUW ZH DUH UHTXLUHG WR UHSRUW WKDW IDFW :H KDYH QRWKLQJ WR UHSRUW LQ WKLV UHJDUG
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
7KH 'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH SUHSDUDWLRQ RI ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ WKDW JLYH D WUXH DQG IDLU YLHZ LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK 0DOD\VLDQ )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO
)LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV DQG WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD 7KH 'LUHFWRUV DUH DOVR
UHVSRQVLEOH IRU VXFK LQWHUQDO FRQWURO DV WKH 'LUHFWRUV GHWHUPLQH LV QHFHVVDU\ WR HQDEOH WKH SUHSDUDWLRQ RI ILQDQFLDO
VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WKDW DUH IUHH IURP PDWHULDO PLVVWDWHPHQW ZKHWKHU GXH WR IUDXG RU
HUURU
ΖQ SUHSDULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WKH 'LUHFWRUV DUH UHVSRQVLEOH IRU DVVHVVLQJ
WKH DELOLW\ RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR FRQWLQXH DV D JRLQJ FRQFHUQ GLVFORVLQJ DV DSSOLFDEOH PDWWHUV UHODWHG
WR JRLQJ FRQFHUQ DQG XVLQJ WKH JRLQJ FRQFHUQ EDVLV RI DFFRXQWLQJ XQOHVV WKH 'LUHFWRUV HLWKHU LQWHQG WR OLTXLGDWH
WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ RU WR FHDVH RSHUDWLRQV RU KDYH QR UHDOLVWLF DOWHUQDWLYH EXW WR GR VR
182
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
2XU REMHFWLYHV DUH WR REWDLQ UHDVRQDEOH DVVXUDQFH DERXW ZKHWKHU WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ DV D ZKROH DUH IUHH IURP PDWHULDO PLVVWDWHPHQW ZKHWKHU GXH WR IUDXG RU HUURU DQG WR LVVXH DQ DXGLWRUVȇ
UHSRUW WKDW LQFOXGHV RXU RSLQLRQ 5HDVRQDEOH DVVXUDQFH LV D KLJK OHYHO RI DVVXUDQFH EXW LV QRW D JXDUDQWHH WKDW DQ
DXGLW FRQGXFWHG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK DSSURYHG VWDQGDUGV RQ DXGLWLQJ LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO 6WDQGDUGV RQ
$XGLWLQJ ZLOO DOZD\V GHWHFW D PDWHULDO PLVVWDWHPHQW ZKHQ LW H[LVWV 0LVVWDWHPHQWV FDQ DULVH IURP IUDXG RU HUURU DQG
DUH FRQVLGHUHG PDWHULDO LI LQGLYLGXDOO\ RU LQ WKH DJJUHJDWH WKH\ FRXOG UHDVRQDEO\ EH H[SHFWHG WR LQIOXHQFH WKH
HFRQRPLF GHFLVLRQV RI XVHUV WDNHQ RQ WKH EDVLV RI WKHVH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
$V SDUW RI DQ DXGLW LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK DSSURYHG VWDQGDUGV RQ DXGLWLQJ LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO 6WDQGDUGV RQ
$XGLWLQJ ZH H[HUFLVH SURIHVVLRQDO MXGJHPHQW DQG PDLQWDLQ SURIHVVLRQDO VFHSWLFLVP WKURXJKRXW WKH DXGLW :H DOVR
ȏ ΖGHQWLI\ DQG DVVHVV WKH ULVNV RI PDWHULDO PLVVWDWHPHQW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\
ZKHWKHU GXH WR IUDXG RU HUURU GHVLJQ DQG SHUIRUP DXGLW SURFHGXUHV UHVSRQVLYH WR WKRVH ULVNV DQG REWDLQ DXGLW
HYLGHQFH WKDW LV VXIILFLHQW DQG DSSURSULDWH WR SURYLGH D EDVLV IRU RXU RSLQLRQ 7KH ULVN RI QRW GHWHFWLQJ D PDWHULDO
PLVVWDWHPHQW UHVXOWLQJ IURP IUDXG LV KLJKHU WKDQ IRU RQH UHVXOWLQJ IURP HUURU DV IUDXG PD\ LQYROYH FROOXVLRQ
IRUJHU\ LQWHQWLRQDO RPLVVLRQV PLVUHSUHVHQWDWLRQV RU WKH RYHUULGH RI LQWHUQDO FRQWURO
ȏ 2EWDLQ DQ XQGHUVWDQGLQJ RI LQWHUQDO FRQWURO UHOHYDQW WR WKH DXGLW LQ RUGHU WR GHVLJQ DXGLW SURFHGXUHV WKDW DUH
DSSURSULDWH LQ WKH FLUFXPVWDQFHV EXW QRW IRU WKH SXUSRVH RI H[SUHVVLQJ DQ RSLQLRQ RQ WKH HIIHFWLYHQHVV RI WKH
LQWHUQDO FRQWURO RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\
ȏ (YDOXDWH WKH DSSURSULDWHQHVV RI DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV XVHG DQG WKH UHDVRQDEOHQHVV RI DFFRXQWLQJ HVWLPDWHV DQG
UHODWHG GLVFORVXUHV PDGH E\ WKH 'LUHFWRUV
ȏ &RQFOXGH RQ WKH DSSURSULDWHQHVV RI WKH 'LUHFWRUVȇ XVH RI WKH JRLQJ FRQFHUQ EDVLV RI DFFRXQWLQJ DQG EDVHG RQ
WKH DXGLW HYLGHQFH REWDLQHG ZKHWKHU D PDWHULDO XQFHUWDLQW\ H[LVWV UHODWHG WR HYHQWV RU FRQGLWLRQV WKDW PD\ FDVW
VLJQLILFDQW GRXEW RQ WKH DELOLW\ RI WKH *URXS RU RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR FRQWLQXH DV D JRLQJ FRQFHUQ ΖI ZH FRQFOXGH
WKDW D PDWHULDO XQFHUWDLQW\ H[LVWV ZH DUH UHTXLUHG WR GUDZ DWWHQWLRQ LQ RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW WR WKH UHODWHG GLVFORVXUHV
LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ RU LI VXFK GLVFORVXUHV DUH LQDGHTXDWH WR PRGLI\
RXU RSLQLRQ 2XU FRQFOXVLRQV DUH EDVHG RQ WKH DXGLW HYLGHQFH REWDLQHG XS WR WKH GDWH RI RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW
+RZHYHU IXWXUH HYHQWV RU FRQGLWLRQV PD\ FDXVH WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ WR FHDVH WR FRQWLQXH DV D JRLQJ
FRQFHUQ
ȏ (YDOXDWH WKH RYHUDOO SUHVHQWDWLRQ VWUXFWXUH DQG FRQWHQW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH
&RPSDQ\ LQFOXGLQJ WKH GLVFORVXUHV DQG ZKHWKHU WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\
UHSUHVHQW WKH XQGHUO\LQJ WUDQVDFWLRQV DQG HYHQWV LQ D PDQQHU WKDW JLYHV D WUXH DQG IDLU YLHZ
ȏ 2EWDLQ VXIILFLHQW DSSURSULDWH DXGLW HYLGHQFH UHJDUGLQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ RI WKH HQWLWLHV RU EXVLQHVV DFWLYLWLHV
ZLWKLQ WKH *URXS WR H[SUHVV DQ RSLQLRQ RQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS :H DUH UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH
GLUHFWLRQ VXSHUYLVLRQ DQG SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH JURXS DXGLW :H UHPDLQ VROHO\ UHVSRQVLEOH IRU RXU DXGLW RSLQLRQ
:H FRPPXQLFDWH ZLWK WKH 'LUHFWRUV UHJDUGLQJ DPRQJ RWKHU PDWWHUV WKH SODQQHG VFRSH DQG WLPLQJ RI WKH DXGLW DQG
VLJQLILFDQW DXGLW ILQGLQJV LQFOXGLQJ DQ\ VLJQLILFDQW GHILFLHQFLHV LQ LQWHUQDO FRQWURO WKDW ZH LGHQWLI\ GXULQJ RXU DXGLW
:H DOVR SURYLGH WKH 'LUHFWRUV ZLWK D VWDWHPHQW WKDW ZH KDYH FRPSOLHG ZLWK UHOHYDQW HWKLFDO UHTXLUHPHQWV UHJDUGLQJ
LQGHSHQGHQFH DQG WR FRPPXQLFDWH ZLWK WKHP DOO UHODWLRQV DQG RWKHU PDWWHUV WKDW PD\ UHDVRQDEO\ EH WKRXJKW WR
EHDU RQ RXU LQGHSHQGHQFH DQG ZKHUH DSSOLFDEOH DFWLRQV WDNHQ WR HOLPLQDWH WKUHDWV RU VDIHJXDUGV DSSOLHG
)URP WKH PDWWHUV FRPPXQLFDWHG ZLWK WKH 'LUHFWRUV ZH GHWHUPLQH WKRVH PDWWHUV WKDW ZHUH RI PRVW VLJQLILFDQFH LQ
WKH DXGLW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ IRU WKH FXUUHQW \HDU DQG DUH WKHUHIRUH WKH
NH\ DXGLW PDWWHUV :H GHVFULEH WKHVH PDWWHUV LQ RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW XQOHVV ODZ RU UHJXODWLRQ SUHFOXGHV WKH SXEOLF
GLVFORVXUH DERXW WKH PDWWHU RU ZKHQ LQ H[WUHPHO\ UDUH FLUFXPVWDQFHV ZH GHWHUPLQH WKDW D PDWWHU VKRXOG QRW EH
FRPPXQLFDWHG LQ RXU DXGLWRUVȇ UHSRUW EHFDXVH WKH DGYHUVH FRQVHTXHQFHV RI GRLQJ VR ZRXOG UHDVRQDEO\ EH H[SHFWHG
WR RXWZHLJK WKH SXEOLF LQWHUHVW EHQHILWV RI VXFK FRPPXQLFDWLRQ
183
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ΖQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD ZH UHSRUW WKDW WKH VXEVLGLDULHV RI
ZKLFK ZH KDYH QRW DFWHG DV DXGLWRUV DUH GLVFORVHG LQ WKH 1RWH  WR WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
OTHER MATTER
7KLV UHSRUW LV PDGH VROHO\ WR WKH PHPEHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV D ERG\ LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK 6HFWLRQ  RI WKH
&RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG IRU QR RWKHU SXUSRVH :H GR QRW DVVXPH UHVSRQVLELOLW\ WR DQ\ RWKHU SHUVRQ
IRU WKH FRQWHQW RI WKLV UHSRUW
KPMG PLT Vengadesh A/L Jogarajah
//3/&$ $)  $SSURYDO 1XPEHU   -
&KDUWHUHG $FFRXQWDQWV &KDUWHUHG $FFRXQWDQW
-RKRU %DKUX
'DWH  -XO\ 
184
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Assets
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW  413,860,741  118,834,386 
5LJKWRIXVH DVVHWV  19,378,412  4,582,863 
%LRORJLFDO DVVHWV 5 115,193,886  35,597,640 
ΖQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV  19,316,783  3,118,454 
ΖQYHVWPHQWV LQ VXEVLGLDULHV 7 – – 141,338,013 
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV  1,130,046  – –
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV  7,673,816  – –
Due from subsidiaries  – – 67,200,000 
Total non-current assets 576,553,684  370,671,356 
ΖQYHQWRULHV  173,674,616  90,746,508 
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV  131,421,456  45,222,636 
Due from subsidiaries  – – 129,856,579 
&XUUHQW WD[ DVVHWV 1,541,484  477,605 
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV  685,111  – 
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV  155,789,952  144,999,123 
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV  22,969,591  6,850,502 
Total current assets 486,082,210  418,152,953 
Total assets 1,062,635,894  788,824,309 
Equity
6KDUH FDSLWDO  381,071,015  381,071,015 
5HVHUYHV  249,934,144  98,594,741 
Equity attributable to owners
of the Company 631,005,159  479,665,756 
Non-controlling interests 7 4,896,437  – –
Total equity 635,901,596  479,665,756 
Liabilities
Deferred income  6,226,033  6,226,033 
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV  243,317,647  201,890,447 
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV 8,124,120  3,941,933 
'HIHUUHG WD[ OLDELOLWLHV  7,731,483  6,434,000 
Total non-current liabilities 265,399,283  218,492,413 
Deferred income  270,697  270,697 
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV  92,934,269  21,235,548 
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV  64,141,913  15,886,828 
Due to subsidiaries  – – 53,070,359 
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV  1,694,958 – 142,038 –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV 2,293,178  60,670 
Total current liabilities 161,335,015  90,666,140 
Total liabilities 426,734,298  309,158,553 
Total equity and liabilities 1,062,635,894  788,824,309 
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
185
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 March 2023
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Revenue  629,690,739  285,978,369 
&RVW RI VDOHV (480,038,012)  (227,423,024) 
Gross profit 149,652,727  58,555,345 
2WKHU LQFRPH 9,161,914  5,159,226 
6HOOLQJ DQG GLVWULEXWLRQ H[SHQVHV (51,711,477)  (25,200,159) 
$GPLQLVWUDWLYH H[SHQVHV (35,871,628)  (5,488,414) 
2WKHU H[SHQVHV (7,590,743)  (1,020,032) 
Results from operating activities 63,640,793  32,005,966 
Finance income  472,794  2,890,528 
Finance costs  (11,939,350)  (8,843,105) 
Net finance costs (11,466,556)  (5,925,577) 
Profit before tax 52,174,237  26,053,389 
7D[ H[SHQVHFUHGLW
Ȃ &XUUHQW WD[ DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ (2,239,963)  (1,093,058) 
Ȃ 5HYHUVDO RI WD[  –  – –
Total tax (expense)/credit  (2,239,963)  (1,093,058) 
Profit for the year  49,934,274  24,960,331 
Other comprehensive expense,
net of tax
Items that are or may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
)RUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ WUDQVODWLRQ GLIIHUHQFHV
Other comprehensive expense
for the year (9,572,295)  – –
Total comprehensive income
for the year 40,361,979  24,960,331 
Profit/(Loss) attributable to:
2ZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ 50,079,503  24,960,331 
1RQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV (145,229)  – –
Profit for the year 49,934,274  24,960,331 
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) attributable to:
2ZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ 40,836,099  24,960,331 
1RQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV (474,120)  – –
Total comprehensive income
for the year 40,361,979  24,960,331 
%DVLF HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH VHQ  2.69  – –
'LOXWHG HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH VHQ  2.69  – –
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
186
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-
controlling
interests
RM
Total
equity
RM
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM
Group
Share
capital
RM
Translation
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
At 1 April 2021      
)RUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ WUDQVODWLRQ GLIIHUHQFHV IRU IRUHLJQ
RSHUDWLRQV
Total other comprehensive expense for the year –  –   
3URILW/RVV IRU WKH \HDU – –    
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year –     
Contributions by and distributions to owners
of the Company
6KDUHV LVVXHG IRU WKH 3XEOLF ΖVVXH   – –  – 
6KDUHV LVVXDQFH H[SHQVHV IRU WKH 3XEOLF ΖVVXH   – –  – 
Total transactions with owners of the Company  – –  – 
At 31 March 2022      
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-
controlling
interests
RM
Total
equity
RM
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM
Group
Share
capital
RM
Translation
reserve
RM
Employee
share-based
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
At 1 April 2022 380,607,443 2,609,727 – 222,726,267 605,943,437 5,019,430 610,962,867
)RUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ WUDQVODWLRQ GLIIHUHQFHV
IRU IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQV
Total other comprehensive
expense for the year – (9,243,404) – – (9,243,404) (328,891) (9,572,295)
3URILW/RVV IRU WKH \HDU – – – 50,079,503 50,079,503 (145,229) 49,934,274
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year – (9,243,404) – 50,079,503 40,836,099 (474,120) 40,361,979
Contributions by and distributions to
owners of the Company
$FTXLVLWLRQ RI D VXEVLGLDU\  – – – – – 351,127 351,127
'LYLGHQGV WR RZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\  – – – (19,880,116) (19,880,116) – (19,880,116)
6KDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW  – – 3,721,799 – 3,721,799 – 3,721,799
ΖVVXDQFH RI VKDUHV SXUVXDQW WR (626  463,572 – (79,632) – 383,940 – 383,940
Total transactions with owners of
the Company 463,572 – 3,642,167 (19,880,116) (15,774,377) 351,127 (15,423,250)
At 31 March 2023 381,071,015 (6,633,677) 3,642,167 252,925,654 631,005,159 4,896,437 635,901,596
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
187
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM
Company
Share
capital
RM
Employee
share-based
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
At 1 April 2021  –  
3URILW DQG WRWDO FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
IRU WKH \HDU – –  
Contributions by and distributions to owners
of the Company
6KDUHV LVVXHG IRU 3XEOLF ΖVVXH   – – 
6KDUHV LVVXDQFH H[SHQVHV   – – 
Total transactions with owners of the
Company  – – 
At 31 March 2022/1 April 2022  –  
3URILW DQG WRWDO FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
IRU WKH \HDU – – 24,960,331 24,960,331
Contributions by and distributions to
owners of the Company
'LYLGHQGV WR RZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\  – – (19,880,116) (19,880,116)
6KDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW  – 3,721,799 – 3,721,799
ΖVVXDQFH RI VKDUHV SXUVXDQW WR (626  463,572 (79,632) – 383,940
Total transactions with owners of the
Company 463,572 3,642,167 (19,880,116) (15,774,377)
At 31 March 2023 381,071,015 3,642,167 94,952,574 479,665,756
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
188
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Cash flows from operating activities
3URILW EHIRUH WD[ 52,174,237  26,053,389 
$GMXVWPHQWV IRU
'HSUHFLDWLRQ DQG DPRUWLVDWLRQ
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 31,064,235  11,464,559 
Ȃ LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV 234,995  14,157 
Ȃ ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV 1,928,178  149,721 
Finance income (472,794)  (2,890,528) 
Finance costs 11,939,350  8,843,105 
(TXLW\ VHWWOHG VKDUHȂEDVHG SD\PHQW 3,653,064 – 763,840 –
5HYHUVDO RI LPSDLUPHQW ORVV
ΖPSDLUPHQW ORVV RQ
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW –  – –
Ȃ WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV 269,298  110,979 –
5HYHUVDO RI:ULWWHQ RII RI
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 7,728  – –
Ȃ REVROHWH DQG VORZPRYLQJ LQYHQWRULHV (174,943)  (54,238) 
*DLQ RQ GLVSRVDO RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG
HTXLSPHQW (299,110)  – –
*DLQ IURP D EDUJDLQ SXUFKDVH  (133,570) – – –
Amortisation of deferred income (270,697)  (270,697) 
*DLQ/RVV DULVLQJ IURP FKDQJHV LQ IDLU
YDOXH RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV (110,302)  1,348,664 
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI
Ȃ GHULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV 2,485,727  144,706 
Ȃ RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV (2,457,218)  (2,169,172) 
Distribution income from money
PDUNHW LQYHVWPHQWV (3,738,121)  (3,721,749) 
8QUHDOLVHG ORVVJDLQ RQ IRUHLJQ
H[FKDQJH (488,893)  (90,131) 
Operating profit before changes in
working capital 95,611,164  39,696,605 
&KDQJH LQ LQYHQWRULHV (53,314,882)  (53,675,689) 
&KDQJH LQ WUDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV (29,321,042)  (12,802,513) 
&KDQJH LQ WUDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (31,288,563)  (12,493,623) 
&KDQJH LQ GXH IURPWR VXEVLGLDULHV – – 46,324,854   
Cash (used in)/generated from
operations (18,313,323)  7,049,634 
ΖQWHUHVW UHFHLYHG 472,794  2,890,528 
7D[ SDLG (2,088,830)  (810,663) 
Net cash (used in)/from operating
activities (19,929,359)  9,129,499 
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
189
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Cash flows from investing activities
$FTXLVLWLRQ RI
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW  (111,512,005)  (24,507,269) 
Ȃ ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV (29,658,163)  (17,253,608) 
Ȃ LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV (324,495)  (324,495) 
Ȃ ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV (1,963,523)  (1,464,747) –
– subsidiaries  (3,238,422) – – –
3URFHHGV IURP GLVSRVDO RI
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 9,052,028  490,943 
Ȃ ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV 8,208,938  13,969,244 
ΖQFUHDVH LQ LQYHVWPHQW LQ VXEVLGLDULHV – – (17,009,193) 
:LWKGUDZDO IURP1HW LQYHVWPHQW LQ
RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV 131,000,000  121,000,000 
$GYDQFHV WR VXEVLGLDULHV – – (75,905,796)    
Net cash from/(used in) investing
activities 1,564,358  (1,004,921) 
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (11,588,102)  (8,656,015) 
'LYLGHQG SDLG (19,880,116) – (19,880,116) –
3URFHHGV IURP VKDUHV LVVXHG  383,940  383,940 
'UDZGRZQ RI 6XNXN –  – 
'UDZGRZQ RI WHUP ORDQV 13,758,638 – – –
Repayment of term loans (696,096)  (696,096) 
1HW SURFHHGV IURP
Ȃ EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV 26,350,297  3,585,520 
Ȃ UHYROYLQJ FUHGLWV 14,760,000  14,760,000 
Ȃ VKRUWWHUP ILQDQFLQJ 69,940  – –
5HSD\PHQW RI KLUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV (6,836,881)  – 
Repayment of lease liabilities (1,335,138)  (336,582) 
5HSD\PHQW RI ORDQ IURP D VKDUHKROGHU –  – 
&DSLWDO FRQWULEXWHG E\ D PLQRULW\
VKDUHKROGHU  351,127 – – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing
activities 15,337,609  (10,839,349) 
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH RQ WUDQVODWLRQ RI
WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI IRUHLJQ
operation (2,106,083)  – –
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and
cash equivalents (5,133,475)  (2,714,771) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 28,103,066  9,565,273 
Cash and cash equivalents at
31 March  22,969,591  6,850,502 
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
190
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Included in net cash from operating
activities
3D\PHQW UHODWLQJ WR VKRUWWHUP OHDVHV  4,486,294  59,884 –
3D\PHQW UHODWLQJ WR OHDVHV RI ORZYDOXH
assets  130,058  11,882 
Included in net cash from financing
activities
Payment of lease liabilities 1,335,138  336,582 
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities  351,248  187,090 
Total cash outflows for leases 6,302,738  595,438 
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
191
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
7KH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ QRWHV IRUP DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
Reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
Group
At
1 April
2021
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
Exchange
difference
RM
At
31 March
2022/
1 April 2022
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
Acquisition
of a
business
RM
Derecog-
nition
of lease
RM
Exchange
difference
RM
At
31 March
2023
RM
Term loans  –  –   – 13,062,542 – – – (1,352,337) 30,436,480
%DQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV  –  –   – 26,350,297 – – – (834,675) 67,404,151
5HYROYLQJ FUHGLWV  –  – – – – 14,760,000 – – – – 14,760,000
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV  –     – (6,836,881) 6,228,742 1,355,363 – (1,109,636) 20,182,967
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV       351,248 (1,335,138) 4,924,564 – (368,256) (34,418) 10,417,298
/RDQ IURP D VKDUHKROGHU  –  – – – – – – – – – –
6KRUW WHUP ILQDQFLQJ  –  –   – 69,940 – – – (59,208) 981,523
6XNXN –   – –  – – – – – – 202,486,795
Total liabilities from
financing activities       351,248 46,070,760 11,153,306 1,355,363 (368,256) (3,390,274) 346,669,214
Company
At
1 April
2021
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
At
31 March
2022/
1 April 2022
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Net
changes from
financing
cash flows
RM
Derecognition
of lease
RM
At
31 March
2023
RM
%DQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV  –  – – – 3,585,520 – 3,585,520
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV  –  – – – – – –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV      187,090 (336,582) (368,256) 4,002,603
/RDQ IURP D VKDUHKROGHU  –  – – – – – –
5HYROYLQJ FUHGLWV  –  – – – 14,760,000 – 14,760,000
Term loans  –  –  – (696,096) – 2,293,680
6XNXN –   –  – – – 202,486,795
Total liabilities from financing
activities      187,090 17,312,842 (368,256) 227,128,598
192
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended 31 March 2023
)DUP )UHVK %HUKDG LV D SXEOLF OLPLWHG OLDELOLW\ FRPSDQ\ LQFRUSRUDWHG DQG GRPLFLOHG LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG LV OLVWHG RQ WKH
0DLQ 0DUNHW RI %XUVD 0DOD\VLD 6HFXULWLHV %HUKDG 7KH DGGUHVVHV RI WKH SULQFLSDO SODFH RI EXVLQHVV DQG UHJLVWHUHG
RIILFH RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH DV IROORZV
Principal place of business
3ORW ' .0
-DODQ 0XDG]DP Ȃ 5RPSLQ
 0XDG]DP 6KDK
3DKDQJ 'DUXO 0DNPXU
Registered office
6XLWH  WK Floor
&LW\ 3OD]D -DODQ 7HEUDX
 -RKRU %DKUX
-RKRU
7KH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV DW DQG IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  FRPSULVH WKH
&RPSDQ\ DQG LWV VXEVLGLDULHV WRJHWKHU UHIHUUHG WR DV WKH Ȋ*URXSȋ DQG LQGLYLGXDOO\ UHIHUUHG WR DV Ȋ*URXS HQWLWLHVȋ
7KH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DV DW DQG IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  GR QRW LQFOXGH RWKHU
HQWLWLHV
7KH SULQFLSDO DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH LQYHVWPHQW KROGLQJ UHDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG WKH SURGXFWLRQ PDUNHWLQJ
VDOH RI FRZȇV PLON DQG SODQWEDVHG UHODWHG SURGXFWV 7KH SULQFLSDO DFWLYLWLHV RI LWV VXEVLGLDULHV DUH GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH

7KHVH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV ZHUH DXWKRULVHG IRU LVVXH E\ WKH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV RQ  -XO\ 
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
7KH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ KDYH EHHQ SUHSDUHG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK 0DOD\VLDQ
)LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV Ȋ0)56Vȋ ΖQWHUQDWLRQDO )LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV DQG WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV
RI WKH &RPSDQLHV $FW  LQ 0DOD\VLD
7KH IROORZLQJ DUH DFFRXQWLQJ VWDQGDUGV LQWHUSUHWDWLRQV DQG DPHQGPHQWV RI WKH 0)56V WKDW KDYH EHHQ
LVVXHG E\ WKH 0DOD\VLDQ $FFRXQWLQJ 6WDQGDUGV %RDUG Ȋ0$6%ȋ EXW KDYH QRW EHHQ DGRSWHG E\ WKH *URXS
DQG WKH &RPSDQ\
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2023
• 0)56  Insurance Contracts
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Insurance Contracts – Initial application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative
Information
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Presentation of Financial Statements – Classification of Liabilities as Current or
Non-current and Disclosures of Accounting Policies
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – Definition of
Accounting Estimates
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Income Taxes – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction and International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules
193
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
Notes to the
Financial Statements
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2024
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
and Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Statement of Cash Flows DQG 0)56  Financial Instruments: Disclosures –
Supplier Finance Arrangements
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date
yet to be confirmed
• $PHQGPHQWV WR 0)56  Consolidated Financial Statements DQG 0)56  Investments in Associates and
Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ SODQ WR DSSO\ WKH DERYH PHQWLRQHG DFFRXQWLQJ VWDQGDUGV LQWHUSUHWDWLRQV
DQG DPHQGPHQWV LQ WKH UHVSHFWLYH ILQDQFLDO \HDU ZKHQ WKH DERYH DFFRXQWLQJ VWDQGDUGV LQWHUSUHWDWLRQV
DQG DPHQGPHQWV EHFRPH HIIHFWLYH LI DSSOLFDEOH
7KH LQLWLDO DSSOLFDWLRQ RI WKH DFFRXQWLQJ VWDQGDUGV LQWHUSUHWDWLRQV DQG DPHQGPHQWV DUH QRW H[SHFWHG WR
KDYH DQ\ PDWHULDO ILQDQFLDO LPSDFWV WR WKH FXUUHQW SHULRG DQG SULRU SHULRG ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS
DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ XSRQ WKHLU ILUVW DGRSWLRQ
(b) Basis of measurement
7KH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV KDYH EHHQ SUHSDUHG RQ WKH KLVWRULFDO FRVW EDVLV RWKHU WKDQ DV GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH

(c) Functional and presentation currency
7KHVH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV DUH SUHVHQWHG LQ 5LQJJLW 0DOD\VLD Ȋ50ȋ ZKLFK LV WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV IXQFWLRQDO
FXUUHQF\ $OO ILQDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ LV SUHVHQWHG LQ 50 XQOHVV RWKHUZLVH VWDWHG
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
7KH SUHSDUDWLRQ RI WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV LQ FRQIRUPLW\ ZLWK 0)56V UHTXLUHV PDQDJHPHQW WR PDNH
MXGJHPHQWV HVWLPDWHV DQG DVVXPSWLRQV WKDW DIIHFW WKH DSSOLFDWLRQ RI DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DQG WKH UHSRUWHG
DPRXQWV RI DVVHWV OLDELOLWLHV LQFRPH DQG H[SHQVHV $FWXDO UHVXOWV PD\ GLIIHU IURP WKHVH HVWLPDWHV
(VWLPDWHV DQG XQGHUO\LQJ DVVXPSWLRQV DUH UHYLHZHG RQ DQ RQJRLQJ EDVLV 5HYLVLRQV WR DFFRXQWLQJ HVWLPDWHV
DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH SHULRG LQ ZKLFK WKH HVWLPDWHV DUH UHYLVHG DQG LQ DQ\ IXWXUH SHULRGV DIIHFWHG
7KHUH DUH QR VLJQLILFDQW DUHDV RI HVWLPDWLRQ XQFHUWDLQW\ DQG FULWLFDO MXGJHPHQWV LQ DSSO\LQJ DFFRXQWLQJ
SROLFLHV WKDW KDYH VLJQLILFDQW HIIHFW RQ WKH DPRXQWV UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RWKHU WKDQ WKRVH
GLVFORVHG LQ WKH IROORZLQJ
• 1RWH  Ȃ ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV
• 1RWH  Ȃ YDOXDWLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV
• 1RWH  Ȃ PHDVXUHPHQW RI WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQWV RI FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV
• 1RWH  Ȃ GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV
• 1RWH  Ȃ HPSOR\HH VKDUHEDVHG UHVHUYH
• 1RWH  Ȃ WD[ H[SHQVHFUHGLW
• 1RWH  Ȃ PHDVXUHPHQW RI H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVV Ȋ(&/ȋ
194
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
7KH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV VHW RXW EHORZ KDYH EHHQ DSSOLHG FRQVLVWHQWO\ WR WKH SHULRGV SUHVHQWHG LQ WKHVH ILQDQFLDO
VWDWHPHQWV DQG KDYH EHHQ DSSOLHG FRQVLVWHQWO\ E\ *URXS HQWLWLHV XQOHVV RWKHUZLVH VWDWHG
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
6XEVLGLDULHV DUH HQWLWLHV LQFOXGLQJ VWUXFWXUHG HQWLWLHV FRQWUROOHG E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ 7KH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
RI VXEVLGLDULHV DUH LQFOXGHG LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV IURP WKH GDWH WKDW FRQWURO FRPPHQFHV XQWLO
WKH GDWH WKDW FRQWURO FHDVHV
7KH *URXS FRQWUROV DQ HQWLW\ ZKHQ LW LV H[SRVHG RU KDV ULJKWV WR YDULDEOH UHWXUQV IURP LWV LQYROYHPHQW
ZLWK WKH HQWLW\ DQG KDV WKH DELOLW\ WR DIIHFW WKRVH UHWXUQV WKURXJK LWV SRZHU RYHU WKH HQWLW\ 3RWHQWLDO
YRWLQJ ULJKWV DUH FRQVLGHUHG ZKHQ DVVHVVLQJ FRQWURO RQO\ ZKHQ VXFK ULJKWV DUH VXEVWDQWLYH 7KH *URXS
DOVR FRQVLGHUV LW KDV de facto SRZHU RYHU DQ LQYHVWHH ZKHQ GHVSLWH QRW KDYLQJ WKH PDMRULW\ RI YRWLQJ
ULJKWV LW KDV WKH FXUUHQW DELOLW\ WR GLUHFW WKH DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH LQYHVWHH WKDW VLJQLILFDQWO\ DIIHFW WKH
LQYHVWHHȇV UHWXUQ
ΖQYHVWPHQWV LQ VXEVLGLDULHV DUH PHDVXUHG LQ WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ DW FRVW OHVV
DQ\ LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV XQOHVV WKH LQYHVWPHQW LV FODVVLILHG DV KHOG IRU VDOH RU GLVWULEXWLRQ 7KH FRVW RI
LQYHVWPHQW LQFOXGHV WUDQVDFWLRQ FRVWV
(ii) Business combinations
%XVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQV DUH DFFRXQWHG IRU XVLQJ WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ PHWKRG IURP WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ GDWH
ZKLFK LV WKH GDWH RQ ZKLFK FRQWURO LV WUDQVIHUUHG WR WKH *URXS
)RU QHZ DFTXLVLWLRQV WKH *URXS PHDVXUHV WKH FRVW RI JRRGZLOO DW WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ GDWH DV
• WKH IDLU YDOXH RI WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ WUDQVIHUUHG SOXV
• WKH UHFRJQLVHG DPRXQW RI DQ\ QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV LQ WKH DFTXLUHH SOXV
• LI WKH EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQ LV DFKLHYHG LQ VWDJHV WKH IDLU YDOXH RI WKH H[LVWLQJ HTXLW\ LQWHUHVW LQ
WKH DFTXLUHH OHVV
• WKH QHW UHFRJQLVHG DPRXQW JHQHUDOO\ IDLU YDOXH RI WKH LGHQWLILDEOH DVVHWV DFTXLUHG DQG OLDELOLWLHV
DVVXPHG
:KHQ WKH H[FHVV LV QHJDWLYH D EDUJDLQ SXUFKDVH JDLQ LV UHFRJQLVHG LPPHGLDWHO\ LQ SURILW RU ORVV
)RU HDFK EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQ WKH *URXS HOHFWV ZKHWKHU LW PHDVXUHV WKH QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV LQ
WKH DFTXLUHH HLWKHU DW IDLU YDOXH RU DW WKH SURSRUWLRQDWH VKDUH RI WKH DFTXLUHHȇV LGHQWLILDEOH QHW DVVHWV
DW WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ GDWH
7UDQVDFWLRQ FRVWV RWKHU WKDQ WKRVH DVVRFLDWHG ZLWK WKH LVVXH RI GHEW RU HTXLW\ VHFXULWLHV WKDW WKH
*URXS LQFXUV LQ FRQQHFWLRQ ZLWK D EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQ DUH H[SHQVHG DV LQFXUUHG
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
7KH *URXS DFFRXQWV IRU DOO FKDQJHV LQ LWV RZQHUVKLS LQWHUHVW LQ D VXEVLGLDU\ WKDW GR QRW UHVXOW LQ D
ORVV RI FRQWURO DV HTXLW\ WUDQVDFWLRQV EHWZHHQ WKH *URXS DQG LWV QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVW KROGHUV $Q\
GLIIHUHQFH EHWZHHQ WKH *URXSȇV VKDUH RI QHW DVVHWV EHIRUH DQG DIWHU WKH FKDQJH DQG DQ\ FRQVLGHUDWLRQ
UHFHLYHG RU SDLG LV DGMXVWHG WR RU DJDLQVW *URXS UHVHUYHV
195
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(a) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(iv) Loss of control
8SRQ WKH ORVV RI FRQWURO RI D VXEVLGLDU\ WKH *URXS GHUHFRJQLVHV WKH DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV RI WKH IRUPHU
VXEVLGLDU\ DQ\ QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV DQG WKH RWKHU FRPSRQHQWV RI HTXLW\ UHODWHG WR WKH IRUPHU
VXEVLGLDU\ IURP WKH FRQVROLGDWHG VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ $Q\ VXUSOXV RU GHILFLW DULVLQJ RQ WKH
ORVV RI FRQWURO LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV ΖI WKH *URXS UHWDLQV DQ\ LQWHUHVW LQ WKH IRUPHU VXEVLGLDU\
WKHQ VXFK LQWHUHVW LV PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH DW WKH GDWH WKDW FRQWURO LV ORVW 6XEVHTXHQWO\ LW LV DFFRXQWHG
IRU DV DQ HTXLW\ DFFRXQWHG LQYHVWHH RU DV D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW GHSHQGLQJ RQ WKH OHYHO RI LQIOXHQFH UHWDLQHG
(v) Non-controlling interests
1RQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG EHLQJ WKH HTXLW\ LQ D VXEVLGLDU\ QRW
DWWULEXWDEOH GLUHFWO\ RU LQGLUHFWO\ WR WKH HTXLW\ KROGHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH SUHVHQWHG LQ WKH FRQVROLGDWHG
VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ DQG VWDWHPHQW RI FKDQJHV LQ HTXLW\ ZLWKLQ HTXLW\ VHSDUDWHO\ IURP HTXLW\
DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH RZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ 1RQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV LQ WKH UHVXOWV RI WKH *URXS LV
SUHVHQWHG LQ WKH FRQVROLGDWHG VWDWHPHQW RI SURILW RU ORVV DQG RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH DV DQ
DOORFDWLRQ RI WKH SURILW RU ORVV DQG WKH FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH IRU WKH \HDU EHWZHHQ QRQFRQWUROOLQJ
LQWHUHVWV DQG RZQHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\
/RVVHV DSSOLFDEOH WR WKH QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV LQ D VXEVLGLDU\ DUH DOORFDWHG WR WKH QRQFRQWUROOLQJ
LQWHUHVWV HYHQ LI GRLQJ VR FDXVHV WKH QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV WR KDYH D GHILFLW EDODQFH
(vi) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
ΖQWUDJURXS EDODQFHV DQG WUDQVDFWLRQV DQG DQ\ XQUHDOLVHG LQFRPH DQG H[SHQVHV DULVLQJ IURP LQWUD
JURXS WUDQVDFWLRQV DUH HOLPLQDWHG LQ SUHSDULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
7UDQVDFWLRQV LQ IRUHLJQ FXUUHQFLHV DUH WUDQVODWHG WR WKH UHVSHFWLYH IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RI *URXS
HQWLWLHV DW H[FKDQJH UDWHV DW WKH GDWHV RI WKH WUDQVDFWLRQV
0RQHWDU\ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV GHQRPLQDWHG LQ IRUHLJQ FXUUHQFLHV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
DUH UHWUDQVODWHG WR WKH IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQF\ DW WKH H[FKDQJH UDWH DW WKDW GDWH
1RQPRQHWDU\ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV GHQRPLQDWHG LQ IRUHLJQ FXUUHQFLHV DUH QRW UHWUDQVODWHG DW WKH HQG
RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ GDWH H[FHSW IRU WKRVH WKDW DUH PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH ZKLFK DUH UHWUDQVODWHG WR WKH
IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQF\ DW WKH H[FKDQJH UDWH DW WKH GDWH WKDW WKH IDLU YDOXH ZDV GHWHUPLQHG
)RUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ GLIIHUHQFHV DULVLQJ RQ UHWUDQVODWLRQ DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV H[FHSW IRU
GLIIHUHQFHV DULVLQJ RQ WKH UHWUDQVODWLRQ RI HTXLW\ LQVWUXPHQWV ZKHUH WKH\ DUH PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH
WKURXJK RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH RU D ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQW GHVLJQDWHG DV D FDVK IORZ KHGJH ZKLFK
DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
ΖQ WKH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV ZKHQ VHWWOHPHQW RI D PRQHWDU\ LWHP UHFHLYDEOH IURP RU SD\DEOH WR D IRUHLJQ
RSHUDWLRQ LV QHLWKHU SODQQHG QRU OLNHO\ WR RFFXU LQ WKH IRUHVHHDEOH IXWXUH IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH JDLQV DQG
ORVVHV DULVLQJ IURP VXFK D PRQHWDU\ LWHP DUH FRQVLGHUHG WR IRUP SDUW RI D QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ D IRUHLJQ
RSHUDWLRQ DQG DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH DQG DUH SUHVHQWHG LQ WKH IRUHLJQ
FXUUHQF\ WUDQVODWLRQ UHVHUYH Ȋ)&75ȋ LQ HTXLW\
196
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Foreign currency (continued)
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
7KH DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV RI RSHUDWLRQV GHQRPLQDWHG LQ IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RWKHU WKDQ 50 LQFOXGLQJ
JRRGZLOO DQG IDLU YDOXH DGMXVWPHQWV DULVLQJ RQ DFTXLVLWLRQ DUH WUDQVODWHG WR 50 DW H[FKDQJH UDWHV DW
WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG 7KH LQFRPH DQG H[SHQVHV RI IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQV DUH WUDQVODWHG WR
50 DW H[FKDQJH UDWHV DW WKH GDWHV RI WKH WUDQVDFWLRQV
)RUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ GLIIHUHQFHV DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH DQG DFFXPXODWHG LQ WKH
)&75 LQ HTXLW\ +RZHYHU LI WKH RSHUDWLRQ LV D QRQZKROO\RZQHG VXEVLGLDU\ WKHQ WKH UHOHYDQW SURSRUWLRQDWH
VKDUH RI WKH WUDQVODWLRQ GLIIHUHQFH LV DOORFDWHG WR WKH QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV :KHQ D IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQ
LV GLVSRVHG RI VXFK WKDW FRQWURO VLJQLILFDQW LQIOXHQFH RU MRLQW FRQWURO LV ORVW WKH FXPXODWLYH DPRXQW LQ
WKH )&75 UHODWHG WR WKDW IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQ LV UHFODVVLILHG WR SURILW RU ORVV DV SDUW RI WKH JDLQ RU ORVV
RQ GLVSRVDO
:KHQ WKH *URXS GLVSRVHV RI RQO\ SDUW RI LWV LQWHUHVW LQ D VXEVLGLDU\ WKDW LQFOXGHV D IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQ
WKH UHOHYDQW SURSRUWLRQ RI WKH FXPXODWLYH DPRXQW LV UHDWWULEXWHG WR QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV :KHQ
WKH *URXS GLVSRVHV RI RQO\ SDUW RI LWV LQYHVWPHQW LQ DQ DVVRFLDWH WKDW LQFOXGHV D IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQ
ZKLOH UHWDLQLQJ VLJQLILFDQW LQIOXHQFH RU MRLQW FRQWURO WKH UHOHYDQW SURSRUWLRQ RI WKH FXPXODWLYH DPRXQW
LV UHFODVVLILHG WR SURILW RU ORVV
(c) Financial instruments
(i) Recognition and initial measurement
$ ILQDQFLDO DVVHW RU D ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ ZKHQ DQG
RQO\ ZKHQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ EHFRPHV D SDUW\ WR WKH FRQWUDFWXDO SURYLVLRQV RI WKH LQVWUXPHQW
$ ILQDQFLDO DVVHW XQOHVV LW LV D WUDGH UHFHLYDEOH ZLWKRXW VLJQLILFDQW ILQDQFLQJ FRPSRQHQW RU D ILQDQFLDO
OLDELOLW\ LV LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH SOXV RU PLQXV IRU DQ LWHP QRW DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU
ORVV WUDQVDFWLRQ FRVWV WKDW DUH GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR LWV DFTXLVLWLRQ RU LVVXDQFH $ WUDGH UHFHLYDEOH
ZLWKRXW D VLJQLILFDQW ILQDQFLQJ FRPSRQHQW LV LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG DW WKH WUDQVDFWLRQ SULFH
$Q HPEHGGHG GHULYDWLYH LV UHFRJQLVHG VHSDUDWHO\ IURP WKH KRVW FRQWUDFW ZKHUH WKH KRVW FRQWUDFW LV
QRW D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW DQG DFFRXQWHG IRU VHSDUDWHO\ LI DQG RQO\ LI WKH GHULYDWLYH LV QRW FORVHO\ UHODWHG
WR WKH HFRQRPLF FKDUDFWHULVWLFV DQG ULVNV RI WKH KRVW FRQWUDFW DQG WKH KRVW FRQWUDFW LV QRW PHDVXUHG
DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV 7KH KRVW FRQWUDFW LQ WKH HYHQW DQ HPEHGGHG GHULYDWLYH LV UHFRJQLVHG
VHSDUDWHO\ LV DFFRXQWHG IRU LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK SROLF\ DSSOLFDEOH WR WKH QDWXUH RI WKH KRVW FRQWUDFW
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
Financial assets
&DWHJRULHV RI ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DUH GHWHUPLQHG RQ LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ DQG DUH QRW UHFODVVLILHG VXEVHTXHQW
WR WKHLU LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ XQOHVV WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ FKDQJHV LWV EXVLQHVV PRGHO IRU PDQDJLQJ
ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV LQ ZKLFK FDVH DOO DIIHFWHG ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DUH UHFODVVLILHG RQ WKH ILUVW GD\ RI WKH ILUVW
UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG IROORZLQJ WKH FKDQJH RI WKH EXVLQHVV PRGHO
197
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (continued)
Financial assets (continued)
7KH FDWHJRULHV RI ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DW LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ DUH DV IROORZV
(a) Amortised cost
$PRUWLVHG FRVW FDWHJRU\ FRPSULVHV ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV WKDW DUH KHOG ZLWKLQ D EXVLQHVV PRGHO ZKRVH
REMHFWLYH LV WR KROG DVVHWV WR FROOHFW FRQWUDFWXDO FDVK IORZV DQG LWV FRQWUDFWXDO WHUPV JLYH ULVH RQ
VSHFLILHG GDWHV WR FDVK IORZV WKDW DUH VROHO\ SD\PHQWV RI SULQFLSDO DQG LQWHUHVW RQ WKH SULQFLSDO
DPRXQW RXWVWDQGLQJ 7KH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DUH QRW GHVLJQDWHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV
6XEVHTXHQW WR LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ WKHVH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DUH PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW XVLQJ WKH
HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW PHWKRG 7KH DPRUWLVHG FRVW LV UHGXFHG E\ LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV ΖQWHUHVW LQFRPH
IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH JDLQV DQG ORVVHV DQG LPSDLUPHQW DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV $Q\ JDLQ RU
ORVV RQ GHUHFRJQLWLRQ LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
ΖQWHUHVW LQFRPH LV UHFRJQLVHG E\ DSSO\LQJ HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW UDWH WR WKH JURVV FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW
H[FHSW IRU FUHGLW LPSDLUHG ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV VHH 1RWH ML ZKHUH WKH HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW UDWH LV
DSSOLHG WR WKH DPRUWLVHG FRVW
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
$OO ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV QRW PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW DUH PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU
ORVV 7KLV LQFOXGHV GHULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV H[FHSW IRU D GHULYDWLYH WKDW LV D GHVLJQDWHG DQG
HIIHFWLYH KHGJLQJ LQVWUXPHQW 2Q LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ PD\ LUUHYRFDEO\
GHVLJQDWH D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW WKDW RWKHUZLVH PHHWV WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV WR EH PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG
FRVW RU DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH DV DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV
LI GRLQJ VR HOLPLQDWHV RU VLJQLILFDQWO\ UHGXFHV DQ DFFRXQWLQJ PLVPDWFK WKDW ZRXOG RWKHUZLVH DULVH
)LQDQFLDO DVVHWV FDWHJRULVHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV DUH VXEVHTXHQWO\ PHDVXUHG DW
WKHLU IDLU YDOXH 1HW JDLQV RU ORVVHV LQFOXGLQJ DQ\ LQWHUHVW RU GLYLGHQG LQFRPH DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ
WKH SURILW RU ORVV
$OO ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV H[FHSW IRU WKRVH PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV DUH VXEMHFW WR
LPSDLUPHQW DVVHVVPHQW VHH 1RWH ML
Financial liabilities
7KH FDWHJRULHV RI ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV DW LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ DUH DV IROORZV
(a) Fair value through profit or loss
2Q LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ PD\ LUUHYRFDEO\ GHVLJQDWH D ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\
WKDW RWKHUZLVH PHHWV WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV WR EH PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW DV DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK
SURILW RU ORVV
D LI GRLQJ VR HOLPLQDWHV RU VLJQLILFDQWO\ UHGXFHV DQ DFFRXQWLQJ PLVPDWFK WKDW ZRXOG RWKHUZLVH
DULVH
198
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (continued)
Financial liabilities (continued)
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (continued)
E D JURXS RI ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV RU DVVHWV DQG ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV LV PDQDJHG DQG LWV SHUIRUPDQFH
LV HYDOXDWHG RQ D IDLU YDOXH EDVLV LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK D GRFXPHQWHG ULVN PDQDJHPHQW RU
LQYHVWPHQW VWUDWHJ\ DQG LQIRUPDWLRQ DERXW WKH JURXS LV SURYLGHG LQWHUQDOO\ RQ WKDW EDVLV WR
WKH *URXSȇV NH\ PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO RU
F LI D FRQWUDFW FRQWDLQV RQH RU PRUH HPEHGGHG GHULYDWLYHV DQG WKH KRVW LV QRW D ILQDQFLDO
DVVHW LQ WKH VFRSH RI 0)56  ZKHUH WKH HPEHGGHG GHULYDWLYH VLJQLILFDQWO\ PRGLILHV WKH FDVK
IORZV DQG VHSDUDWLRQ LV QRW SURKLELWHG
)LQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV FDWHJRULVHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV DUH VXEVHTXHQWO\ PHDVXUHG DW
WKHLU IDLU YDOXH ZLWK JDLQV RU ORVVHV LQFOXGLQJ DQ\ LQWHUHVW H[SHQVH DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH SURILW
RU ORVV
)RU ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV ZKHUH LW LV GHVLJQDWHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV XSRQ LQLWLDO
UHFRJQLWLRQ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ UHFRJQLVH WKH DPRXQW RI FKDQJH LQ IDLU YDOXH RI WKH
ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ WKDW LV DWWULEXWDEOH WR FKDQJH LQ FUHGLW ULVN LQ WKH RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
DQG UHPDLQLQJ DPRXQW RI WKH FKDQJH LQ IDLU YDOXH LQ WKH SURILW RU ORVV XQOHVV WKH WUHDWPHQW RI
WKH HIIHFWV RI FKDQJHV LQ WKH OLDELOLW\ȇV FUHGLW ULVN ZRXOG FUHDWH RU HQODUJH DQ DFFRXQWLQJ PLVPDWFK
(b) Amortised cost
2WKHU ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV QRW FDWHJRULVHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV DUH VXEVHTXHQWO\
PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW XVLQJ WKH HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW PHWKRG
ΖQWHUHVW H[SHQVH DQG IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH JDLQV DQG ORVVHV DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH SURILW RU ORVV $Q\
JDLQV RU ORVVHV RQ GHUHFRJQLWLRQ DUH DOVR UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH SURILW RU ORVV
(iii) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
$ UHJXODU ZD\ SXUFKDVH RU VDOH RI ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV LV UHFRJQLVHG DQG GHUHFRJQLVHG DV DSSOLFDEOH XVLQJ
WUDGH GDWH RU VHWWOHPHQW GDWH DFFRXQWLQJ LQ WKH FXUUHQW \HDU
7UDGH GDWH DFFRXQWLQJ UHIHUV WR
D WKH UHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ DVVHW WR EH UHFHLYHG DQG WKH OLDELOLW\ WR SD\ IRU LW RQ WKH WUDGH GDWH DQG
E GHUHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ DVVHW WKDW LV VROG UHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ\ JDLQ RU ORVV RQ GLVSRVDO DQG WKH UHFRJQLWLRQ
RI D UHFHLYDEOH IURP WKH EX\HU IRU SD\PHQW RQ WKH WUDGH GDWH
6HWWOHPHQW GDWH DFFRXQWLQJ UHIHUV WR
D WKH UHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ DVVHW RQ WKH GD\ LW LV UHFHLYHG E\ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG
E GHUHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ DVVHW DQG UHFRJQLWLRQ RI DQ\ JDLQ RU ORVV RQ GLVSRVDO RQ WKH GD\ WKDW LV
GHOLYHUHG E\ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\
199
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(iii) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets (continued)
$Q\ FKDQJH LQ WKH IDLU YDOXH RI WKH DVVHW WR EH UHFHLYHG GXULQJ WKH SHULRG EHWZHHQ WKH WUDGH GDWH
DQG WKH VHWWOHPHQW GDWH LV DFFRXQWHG LQ WKH VDPH ZD\ DV LW DFFRXQWV IRU WKH DFTXLUHG DVVHW
*HQHUDOO\ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ DSSOLHV VHWWOHPHQW GDWH DFFRXQWLQJ XQOHVV RWKHUZLVH VWDWHG IRU
WKH VSHFLILF FODVV RI DVVHW
(iv) Financial guarantee contracts
$ ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHH FRQWUDFW LV D FRQWUDFW WKDW UHTXLUHV WKH LVVXHU WR PDNH VSHFLILHG SD\PHQWV WR
UHLPEXUVH WKH KROGHU IRU D ORVV LW LQFXUV EHFDXVH D VSHFLILHG GHEWRU IDLOV WR PDNH SD\PHQW ZKHQ GXH
LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH RULJLQDO RU PRGLILHG WHUPV RI D GHEW LQVWUXPHQW
)LQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV LVVXHG DUH LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH 6XEVHTXHQWO\ WKH\ DUH PHDVXUHG DW
KLJKHU RI
• WKH DPRXQW RI WKH ORVV DOORZDQFH DQG
• WKH DPRXQW LQLWLDOO\ UHFRJQLVHG OHVV ZKHQ DSSURSULDWH WKH FXPXODWLYH DPRXQW RI LQFRPH UHFRJQLVHG
LQ DFFRUGDQFH WR WKH SULQFLSOHV RI 0)56  Revenue from Contracts with Customers
/LDELOLWLHV DULVLQJ IURP ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV DUH SUHVHQWHG WRJHWKHU ZLWK RWKHU SURYLVLRQV
(v) Derecognition
$ ILQDQFLDO DVVHW RU SDUW RI LW LV GHUHFRJQLVHG ZKHQ DQG RQO\ ZKHQ WKH FRQWUDFWXDO ULJKWV WR WKH FDVK
IORZV IURP WKH ILQDQFLDO DVVHW H[SLUH RU WUDQVIHUUHG RU FRQWURO RI WKH DVVHW LV QRW UHWDLQHG RU VXEVWDQWLDOO\
DOO RI WKH ULVNV DQG UHZDUGV RI RZQHUVKLS RI WKH ILQDQFLDO DVVHW DUH WUDQVIHUUHG WR DQRWKHU SDUW\ 2Q
GHUHFRJQLWLRQ RI D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW WKH GLIIHUHQFH EHWZHHQ WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO DVVHW
DQG WKH VXP RI FRQVLGHUDWLRQ UHFHLYHG LQFOXGLQJ DQ\ QHZ DVVHW REWDLQHG OHVV DQ\ QHZ OLDELOLW\ DVVXPHG
LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
$ ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ RU D SDUW RI LW LV GHUHFRJQLVHG ZKHQ DQG RQO\ ZKHQ WKH REOLJDWLRQ VSHFLILHG LQ WKH
FRQWUDFW LV GLVFKDUJHG FDQFHOOHG RU H[SLUHV $ ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ LV DOVR GHUHFRJQLVHG ZKHQ LWV WHUPV
DUH PRGLILHG DQG WKH FDVK IORZV RI WKH PRGLILHG OLDELOLW\ DUH VXEVWDQWLDOO\ GLIIHUHQW LQ ZKLFK FDVH D
QHZ ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ EDVHG RQ PRGLILHG WHUPV LV UHFRJQLVHG DW IDLU YDOXH 2Q GHUHFRJQLWLRQ RI D ILQDQFLDO
OLDELOLW\ WKH GLIIHUHQFH EHWZHHQ WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLW\ H[WLQJXLVKHG RU WUDQVIHUUHG
WR DQRWKHU SDUW\ DQG WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ SDLG LQFOXGLQJ DQ\ QRQFDVK DVVHWV WUDQVIHUUHG RU OLDELOLWLHV
DVVXPHG LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
(vi) Offsetting
)LQDQFLDO DVVHWV DQG ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV DUH RIIVHW DQG WKH QHW DPRXQW SUHVHQWHG LQ WKH FRQVROLGDWHG
VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ ZKHQ DQG RQO\ ZKHQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ FXUUHQWO\ KDV D OHJDOO\
HQIRUFHDEOH ULJKW WR VHW RII WKH DPRXQWV DQG LW LQWHQGV HLWKHU WR VHWWOH WKHP RQ D QHW EDVLV RU WR
UHDOLVH WKH DVVHW DQG OLDELOLW\ VLPXOWDQHRXVO\
200
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
ΖWHPV RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW DUH VWDWHG DW FRVW OHVV DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG GHSUHFLDWLRQ DQG DQ\
DFFXPXODWHG LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV H[FHSW IRU IUHHKROG ODQG ZKLFK LV VWDWHG DW FRVW OHVV DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG
LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV
&RVW LQFOXGHV H[SHQGLWXUHV WKDW DUH GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ RI WKH DVVHW DQG DQ\ RWKHU
FRVWV GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR EULQJLQJ WKH DVVHW WR ZRUNLQJ FRQGLWLRQ IRU LWV LQWHQGHG XVH DQG WKH FRVWV
RI GLVPDQWOLQJ DQG UHPRYLQJ WKH LWHPV DQG UHVWRULQJ WKH VLWH RQ ZKLFK WKH\ DUH ORFDWHG 7KH FRVW RI
VHOIFRQVWUXFWHG DVVHWV DOVR LQFOXGHV WKH FRVW RI PDWHULDOV DQG GLUHFW ODERXU )RU TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHWV
ERUURZLQJ FRVWV DUH FDSLWDOLVHG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLF\ RQ ERUURZLQJ FRVWV &RVW DOVR
PD\ LQFOXGH WUDQVIHUV IURP HTXLW\ RI DQ\ JDLQ RU ORVV RQ TXDOLI\LQJ FDVK IORZ KHGJHV RI IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\
SXUFKDVHV RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW
3XUFKDVHG VRIWZDUH WKDW LV LQWHJUDO WR WKH IXQFWLRQDOLW\ RI WKH UHODWHG HTXLSPHQW LV FDSLWDOLVHG DV SDUW
RI WKDW HTXLSPHQW
:KHQ VLJQLILFDQW SDUWV RI DQ LWHP RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW KDYH GLIIHUHQW XVHIXO OLYHV WKH\
DUH DFFRXQWHG IRU DV VHSDUDWH LWHPV PDMRU FRPSRQHQWV RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW
7KH JDLQ RU ORVV RQ GLVSRVDO RI DQ LWHP RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW LV GHWHUPLQHG E\ FRPSDULQJ
WKH SURFHHGV IURP GLVSRVDO ZLWK WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW DQG LV UHFRJQLVHG
QHW ZLWKLQ ȊRWKHU LQFRPHȋ DQG ȊRWKHU H[SHQVHVȋ UHVSHFWLYHO\ LQ SURILW RU ORVV
(ii) Subsequent costs
7KH FRVW RI UHSODFLQJ D FRPSRQHQW RI DQ LWHP RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH LWHP LI LW LV SUREDEOH WKDW WKH IXWXUH HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV HPERGLHG ZLWKLQ WKH
FRPSRQHQW ZLOO IORZ WR WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG LWV FRVW FDQ EH PHDVXUHG UHOLDEO\ 7KH FDUU\LQJ
DPRXQW RI WKH UHSODFHG FRPSRQHQW LV GHUHFRJQLVHG WR SURILW RU ORVV 7KH FRVWV RI WKH GD\WRGD\
VHUYLFLQJ RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV DV LQFXUUHG
(iii) Depreciation
'HSUHFLDWLRQ LV EDVHG RQ WKH FRVW RI DQ DVVHW OHVV LWV UHVLGXDO YDOXH 6LJQLILFDQW FRPSRQHQWV RI LQGLYLGXDO
DVVHWV DUH DVVHVVHG DQG LI D FRPSRQHQW KDV D XVHIXO OLIH WKDW LV GLIIHUHQW IURP WKH UHPDLQGHU RI WKDW
DVVHW WKHQ WKDW FRPSRQHQW LV GHSUHFLDWHG VHSDUDWHO\
'HSUHFLDWLRQ LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH SURILW RU ORVV RQ D VWUDLJKWOLQH EDVLV RYHU WKH HVWLPDWHG XVHIXO OLYHV
RI HDFK FRPSRQHQW RI DQ LWHP RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW IURP WKH GDWH WKDW WKH\ DUH DYDLODEOH
IRU XVH )UHHKROG ODQG LV QRW GHSUHFLDWHG 3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW XQGHU FRQVWUXFWLRQ DUH QRW
GHSUHFLDWHG XQWLO WKH DVVHWV DUH UHDG\ IRU WKHLU LQWHQGHG XVH
201
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iii) Depreciation (continued)
7KH HVWLPDWHG XVHIXO OLYHV IRU WKH FXUUHQW SHULRG DQG FRPSDUDWLYH SHULRGV DUH DV IROORZV
%XLOGLQJV  Ȃ  \HDUV
)DUP EDUQ EXLOGLQJ DQG HOHFWULFDO LQVWDOODWLRQ  Ȃ  \HDUV
0LON SODQW PDFKLQHU\ WRROV DQG HTXLSPHQW  Ȃ  \HDUV
2IILFH DQG VKRS HTXLSPHQW DQG GHVLJQ  Ȃ  \HDUV
$JURWRXULVP  Ȃ  \HDUV
0RWRU YHKLFOHV  Ȃ  \HDUV
'HSUHFLDWLRQ PHWKRGV XVHIXO OLYHV DQG UHVLGXDO YDOXHV DUH UHYLHZHG DW HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
DQG DGMXVWHG DV DSSURSULDWH
(e) Leases
(i) Definition of a lease
$ FRQWUDFW LV RU FRQWDLQV D OHDVH LI WKH FRQWUDFW FRQYH\V D ULJKW WR FRQWURO WKH XVH RI DQ LGHQWLILHG
DVVHW IRU D SHULRG RI WLPH LQ H[FKDQJH IRU FRQVLGHUDWLRQ 7R DVVHVV ZKHWKHU D FRQWUDFW FRQYH\V WKH
ULJKW WR FRQWURO WKH XVH RI DQ LGHQWLILHG DVVHW WKH *URXS DVVHVVHV ZKHWKHU
• WKH FRQWUDFW LQYROYHV WKH XVH RI DQ LGHQWLILHG DVVHW Ȃ WKLV PD\ EH VSHFLILHG H[SOLFLWO\ RU LPSOLFLWO\
DQG VKRXOG EH SK\VLFDOO\ GLVWLQFW RU UHSUHVHQW VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DOO RI WKH FDSDFLW\ RI D SK\VLFDOO\ GLVWLQFW
DVVHW ΖI WKH VXSSOLHU KDV D VXEVWDQWLYH VXEVWLWXWLRQ ULJKW WKHQ WKH DVVHW LV QRW LGHQWLILHG
• WKH FXVWRPHU KDV WKH ULJKW WR REWDLQ VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DOO RI WKH HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV IURP XVH RI WKH
DVVHW WKURXJKRXW WKH SHULRG RI XVH DQG
• WKH FXVWRPHU KDV WKH ULJKW WR GLUHFW WKH XVH RI WKH DVVHW 7KH FXVWRPHU KDV WKLV ULJKW ZKHQ LW KDV
WKH GHFLVLRQPDNLQJ ULJKWV WKDW DUH PRVW UHOHYDQW WR FKDQJLQJ KRZ DQG IRU ZKDW SXUSRVH WKH DVVHW
LV XVHG ΖQ UDUH FDVHV ZKHUH WKH GHFLVLRQ DERXW KRZ DQG IRU ZKDW SXUSRVH WKH DVVHW LV XVHG LV
SUHGHWHUPLQHG WKH FXVWRPHU KDV WKH ULJKW WR GLUHFW WKH XVH RI WKH DVVHW LI HLWKHU WKH FXVWRPHU
KDV WKH ULJKW WR RSHUDWH WKH DVVHW RU WKH FXVWRPHU GHVLJQHG WKH DVVHW LQ D ZD\ WKDW SUHGHWHUPLQHV
KRZ DQG IRU ZKDW SXUSRVH LW ZLOO EH XVHG
$W LQFHSWLRQ RU RQ UHDVVHVVPHQW RI D FRQWUDFW WKDW FRQWDLQV D OHDVH FRPSRQHQW WKH *URXS DOORFDWHV
WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ LQ WKH FRQWUDFW WR HDFK OHDVH DQG QRQOHDVH FRPSRQHQW RQ WKH EDVLV RI WKHLU UHODWLYH
VWDQGDORQH SULFHV +RZHYHU IRU OHDVHV RI SURSHUWLHV LQ ZKLFK WKH *URXS LV D OHVVHH LW KDV HOHFWHG
QRW WR VHSDUDWH QRQOHDVH FRPSRQHQWV DQG ZLOO LQVWHDG DFFRXQW IRU WKH OHDVH DQG QRQOHDVH FRPSRQHQWV
DV D VLQJOH OHDVH FRPSRQHQW
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
7KH *URXS UHFRJQLVHV D ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW DQG D OHDVH OLDELOLW\ DW WKH OHDVH FRPPHQFHPHQW GDWH
7KH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW LV LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG DW FRVW ZKLFK FRPSULVHV WKH LQLWLDO DPRXQW RI WKH OHDVH
OLDELOLW\ DGMXVWHG IRU DQ\ OHDVH SD\PHQWV PDGH DW RU EHIRUH WKH FRPPHQFHPHQW GDWH SOXV DQ\
LQLWLDO GLUHFW FRVWV LQFXUUHG DQG DQ HVWLPDWH RI FRVWV WR GLVPDQWOH DQG UHPRYH WKH XQGHUO\LQJ
DVVHW RU WR UHVWRUH WKH XQGHUO\LQJ DVVHW RU WKH VLWH RQ ZKLFK LW LV ORFDWHG OHVV DQ\ OHDVH LQFHQWLYHV
UHFHLYHG
202
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases (continued)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement (continued)
(a) As a lessee (continued)
7KH OHDVH OLDELOLW\ LV LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG DW WKH SUHVHQW YDOXH RI WKH OHDVH SD\PHQWV WKDW DUH QRW
SDLG DW WKH FRPPHQFHPHQW GDWH GLVFRXQWHG XVLQJ WKH LQWHUHVW UDWH LPSOLFLW LQ WKH OHDVH RU LI
WKDW UDWH FDQQRW EH UHDGLO\ GHWHUPLQHG WKH UHVSHFWLYH *URXS HQWLWLHVȇ LQFUHPHQWDO ERUURZLQJ UDWH
*HQHUDOO\ WKH *URXS HQWLWLHV XVH WKHLU LQFUHPHQWDO ERUURZLQJ UDWH DV WKH GLVFRXQW UDWH
/HDVH SD\PHQWV LQFOXGHG LQ WKH PHDVXUHPHQW RI WKH OHDVH OLDELOLW\ FRPSULVH WKH IROORZLQJ
• IL[HG SD\PHQWV LQFOXGLQJ LQVXEVWDQFH IL[HG SD\PHQWV OHVV DQ\ LQFHQWLYHV UHFHLYDEOH
• YDULDEOH OHDVH SD\PHQWV WKDW GHSHQG RQ DQ LQGH[ RU D UDWH LQLWLDOO\ PHDVXUHG XVLQJ WKH LQGH[
RU UDWH DV DW WKH FRPPHQFHPHQW GDWH
• DPRXQWV H[SHFWHG WR EH SD\DEOH XQGHU D UHVLGXDO YDOXH JXDUDQWHH
• WKH H[HUFLVH SULFH XQGHU D SXUFKDVH RSWLRQ WKDW WKH *URXS LV UHDVRQDEO\ FHUWDLQ WR H[HUFLVH
and
• SHQDOWLHV IRU HDUO\ WHUPLQDWLRQ RI D OHDVH XQOHVV WKH *URXS LV UHDVRQDEO\ FHUWDLQ QRW WR WHUPLQDWH
HDUO\
7KH *URXS H[FOXGHV YDULDEOH OHDVH SD\PHQWV WKDW OLQNHG WR IXWXUH SHUIRUPDQFH RU XVDJH RI WKH
XQGHUO\LQJ DVVHW IURP WKH OHDVH OLDELOLW\ ΖQVWHDG WKHVH SD\PHQWV DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
LQ WKH SHULRG LQ ZKLFK WKH SHUIRUPDQFH RU XVH RFFXUV
7KH *URXS KDV HOHFWHG QRW WR UHFRJQLVH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV DQG OHDVH OLDELOLWLHV IRU VKRUWWHUP
OHDVHV WKDW KDYH D OHDVH WHUP RI  PRQWKV RU OHVV DQG OHDVHV RI ORZYDOXH DVVHWV 7KH *URXS
UHFRJQLVHV WKH OHDVH SD\PHQWV DVVRFLDWHG ZLWK WKHVH OHDVHV DV DQ H[SHQVH RQ D VWUDLJKWOLQH EDVLV
RYHU WKH OHDVH WHUP
(b) As a lessor
:KHQ WKH *URXS DFWV DV D OHVVRU LW GHWHUPLQHV DW OHDVH LQFHSWLRQ ZKHWKHU HDFK OHDVH LV D ILQDQFH
OHDVH RU DQ RSHUDWLQJ OHDVH
7R FODVVLI\ HDFK OHDVH WKH *URXS PDNHV DQ RYHUDOO DVVHVVPHQW RI ZKHWKHU WKH OHDVH WUDQVIHUV
VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DOO RI WKH ULVNV DQG UHZDUGV LQFLGHQWDO WR RZQHUVKLS RI WKH XQGHUO\LQJ DVVHW ΖI WKLV
LV WKH FDVH WKHQ WKH OHDVH LV D ILQDQFH OHDVH LI QRW WKHQ LW LV DQ RSHUDWLQJ OHDVH
ΖQ DQ DUUDQJHPHQW FRQWDLQV OHDVH DQG QRQOHDVH FRPSRQHQWV WKH *URXS DSSOLHV 0)56  WR
DOORFDWH WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ LQ WKH FRQWUDFW EDVHG RQ WKH VWDQGDORQH VHOOLQJ SULFHV
7KH *URXS UHFRJQLVHV DVVHWV KHOG XQGHU D ILQDQFH OHDVH LQ LWV FRQVROLGDWHG VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO
SRVLWLRQ DQG SUHVHQWV WKHP DV D UHFHLYDEOH DW DQ DPRXQW HTXDO WR WKH QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH
OHDVH 7KH *URXS XVHV WKH LQWHUHVW UDWH LPSOLFLW LQ WKH OHDVH WR PHDVXUH WKH QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ
WKH OHDVH
:KHQ WKH *URXS LV DQ LQWHUPHGLDWH OHVVRU LW DFFRXQWV IRU LWV LQWHUHVWV LQ WKH KHDG OHDVH DQG WKH
VXEOHDVH VHSDUDWHO\ ΖW DVVHVVHV WKH OHDVH FODVVLILFDWLRQ RI D VXEOHDVH ZLWK UHIHUHQFH WR WKH ULJKW
RIXVH DVVHW DULVLQJ IURP WKH KHDG OHDVH QRW ZLWK UHIHUHQFH WR WKH XQGHUO\LQJ DVVHW ΖI D KHDG
OHDVH LV D VKRUWWHUP OHDVH WR ZKLFK WKH *URXS DSSOLHV WKH H[HPSWLRQ GHVFULEHG DERYH WKHQ LW
FODVVLILHV WKH VXEOHDVH DV DQ RSHUDWLQJ OHDVH
203
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases (continued)
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
7KH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW LV VXEVHTXHQWO\ GHSUHFLDWHG XVLQJ WKH VWUDLJKWOLQH PHWKRG IURP WKH
FRPPHQFHPHQW GDWH WR WKH HDUOLHU RI WKH HQG RI WKH XVHIXO OLIH RI WKH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW RU WKH
HQG RI WKH OHDVH WHUP 7KH HVWLPDWHG XVHIXO OLYHV RI ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV DUH GHWHUPLQHG RQ WKH
VDPH EDVLV DV WKRVH RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW ΖQ DGGLWLRQ WKH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW LV
SHULRGLFDOO\ UHGXFHG E\ LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV LI DQ\ DQG DGMXVWHG IRU FHUWDLQ UHPHDVXUHPHQWV RI
WKH OHDVH OLDELOLW\
7KH OHDVH OLDELOLW\ LV PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW XVLQJ WKH HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW PHWKRG ΖW LV UHPHDVXUHG
ZKHQ WKHUH LV D FKDQJH LQ IXWXUH OHDVH SD\PHQWV DULVLQJ IURP D FKDQJH LQ DQ LQGH[ RU UDWH LI
WKHUH LV D UHYLVLRQ RI LQVXEVWDQFH IL[HG OHDVH SD\PHQWV RU LI WKHUH LV D FKDQJH LQ WKH *URXSȇV
HVWLPDWH RI WKH DPRXQW H[SHFWHG WR EH SD\DEOH XQGHU D UHVLGXDO YDOXH JXDUDQWHH RU LI WKH *URXS
FKDQJHV LWV DVVHVVPHQW RI ZKHWKHU LW ZLOO H[HUFLVH D SXUFKDVH H[WHQVLRQ RU WHUPLQDWLRQ RSWLRQ
:KHQ WKH OHDVH OLDELOLW\ LV UHPHDVXUHG D FRUUHVSRQGLQJ DGMXVWPHQW LV PDGH WR WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW
RI WKH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHW RU LV UHFRUGHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV LI WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH ULJKWRIXVH
DVVHW KDV EHHQ UHGXFHG WR ]HUR
(b) As a lessor
7KH *URXS UHFRJQLVHV ILQDQFH LQFRPH RYHU WKH OHDVH WHUP EDVHG RQ D SDWWHUQ UHIOHFWLQJ D FRQVWDQW
SHULRGLF UDWH RI UHWXUQ RQ WKH *URXSȇV QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH OHDVH 7KH *URXS DLPV WR DOORFDWH
ILQDQFH LQFRPH RYHU WKH OHDVH WHUP RQ D V\VWHPDWLF DQG UDWLRQDO EDVLV 7KH *URXS DSSOLHV WKH
OHDVH SD\PHQWV UHODWLQJ WR WKH SHULRG DJDLQVW WKH JURVV LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH OHDVH WR UHGXFH ERWK
WKH SULQFLSDO DQG WKH XQHDUQHG ILQDQFH LQFRPH 7KH QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ WKH OHDVH LV VXEMHFW WR
LPSDLUPHQW UHTXLUHPHQWV LQ 0)56  Financial Instruments VHH 1RWH ML
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
*RRGZLOO DULVHV RQ EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQV LV PHDVXUHG DW FRVW OHVV DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV
(ii) Other intangible assets
ΖQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV RWKHU WKDQ JRRGZLOO WKDW DFTXLUHG E\ WKH *URXS ZKLFK KDYH LQILQLWH XVHIXO OLYHV DUH
PHDVXUHG DW FRVW OHVV DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV 7KH RWKHU LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV ZKLFK KDYH
ILQLWH XVHIXO OLYHV DUH PHDVXUHG DW FRVW OHVV DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG DPRUWLVDWLRQ DQG DQ\ DFFXPXODWHG
LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV
(iii) Subsequent expenditure
6XEVHTXHQW H[SHQGLWXUH LV FDSLWDOLVHG RQO\ ZKHQ LW LQFUHDVHV WKH IXWXUH HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV HPERGLHG
LQ WKH VSHFLILF DVVHW WR ZKLFK LW UHODWHV $OO RWKHU H[SHQGLWXUH LQFOXGLQJ H[SHQGLWXUH RQ LQWHUQDOO\
JHQHUDWHG JRRGZLOO DQG EUDQGV LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV DV LQFXUUHG
204
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Intangible assets (continued)
(iv) Amortisation
*RRGZLOO DQG LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV ZLWK LQGHILQLWH XVHIXO OLYHV DUH QRW DPRUWLVHG EXW DUH WHVWHG IRU LPSDLUPHQW
DQQXDOO\ DQG ZKHQHYHU WKHUH LV DQ LQGLFDWLRQ WKDW WKH\ PD\ EH LPSDLUHG
2WKHU LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV DUH DPRUWLVHG IURP WKH GDWH WKDW WKH\ DUH DYDLODEOH IRU XVH $PRUWLVDWLRQ LV
EDVHG RQ WKH FRVW RI DQ DVVHW OHVV LWV UHVLGXDO YDOXH $PRUWLVDWLRQ LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV RQ
D VWUDLJKWOLQH EDVLV RYHU WKH HVWLPDWHG XVHIXO OLYHV RI LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV
7KH HVWLPDWHG XVHIXO OLYHV IRU WKH FXUUHQW DQG FRPSDUDWLYH SHULRGV DUH DV IROORZV
7UDGHPDUNV  \HDUV
6RIWZDUH  \HDUV
$PRUWLVDWLRQ PHWKRGV XVHIXO OLYHV DQG UHVLGXDO YDOXHV DUH UHYLHZHG DW WKH HQG RI HDFK UHSRUWLQJ
SHULRG DQG DGMXVWHG LI DSSURSULDWH
(g) Biological assets
(i) Dairy cows and goats
7KH *URXSȇV ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV FRPSULVH GDLU\ KHUGV EXOOV DQG GDLU\ JRDWV 7KH ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV DUH
PHDVXUHG DW FRVW RQ LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ DQG VXEVHTXHQWO\ DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG DW WKHLU
IDLU YDOXH OHVV FRVWV WR VHOO ZLWK DQ\ UHVXOWLQJ JDLQ RU ORVV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV IRU WKH \HDU LQ
ZKLFK LW DULVHV
7KH IHHGLQJ FRVWV LQFXUUHG IRU UDLVLQJ RI KHLIHUV DQG FDOYHV DUH FDSLWDOLVHG XQWLO VXFK WLPH DV WKH
KHLIHUV DQG FDOYHV EHJLQ WR SURGXFH PLON
7KH *URXS GHWHUPLQHV ZKHWKHU DQ DFWLYH RU RWKHU HIIHFWLYH PDUNHW H[LVWV IRU D ELRORJLFDO DVVHW LQ LWV
SUHVHQW ORFDWLRQ DQG FRQGLWLRQ DQG ZKHWKHU WKHUH LV D TXRWHG SULFH LQ WKDW PDUNHW DV WKH DSSURSULDWH
EDVLV IRU GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH IDLU YDOXH RI WKDW DVVHW ΖI DQ DFWLYH PDUNHW GRHV QRW H[LVW WKHQ WKH 'LUHFWRUV
XVH RQH RI WKH IROORZLQJ YDOXDWLRQ PHWKRGV ZKHQ DYDLODEOH LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ IDLU YDOXH
• WKH PRVW UHFHQW PDUNHW WUDQVDFWLRQ SULFH SURYLGHG WKDW WKHUH KDV QRW EHHQ D VLJQLILFDQW FKDQJH LQ
HFRQRPLF FLUFXPVWDQFHV EHWZHHQ WKH GDWH RI WKDW WUDQVDFWLRQ DQG WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
or
• PDUNHW SULFHV LQ PDUNHWV DFFHVVLEOH WR WKH HQWLW\ IRU VLPLODU DVVHWV ZLWK DGMXVWPHQW WR UHIOHFW
GLIIHUHQFHV
(ii) Semen and embryos
Semen and embryos are stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated
LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV ZKHUH DSSOLFDEOH
&RVW LQFOXGHV H[SHQGLWXUH WKDW DUH GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ RI WKH DVVHW DQG DQ\ RWKHU
FRVWV GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR EULQJLQJ WKH DVVHWV IRU LWV LQWHQGHG XVH
205
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(h) Inventories
ΖQYHQWRULHV DUH PHDVXUHG DW WKH ORZHU RI FRVW DQG QHW UHDOLVDEOH YDOXH
7KH FRVW RI LQYHQWRULHV LV FDOFXODWHG XVLQJ WKH ILUVWLQ ILUVWRXW PHWKRG DQG LQFOXGHV H[SHQGLWXUH LQFXUUHG
LQ DFTXLULQJ WKH LQYHQWRULHV SURGXFWLRQ RU FRQYHUVLRQ FRVWV DQG RWKHU FRVWV LQFXUUHG LQ EULQJLQJ WKHP WR
WKHLU H[LVWLQJ ORFDWLRQ DQG FRQGLWLRQ ΖQ WKH FDVH RI ZRUNLQSURJUHVV DQG ILQLVKHG JRRGV FRVW LQFOXGHV DQ
DSSURSULDWH VKDUH RI SURGXFWLRQ RYHUKHDGV EDVHG RQ QRUPDO RSHUDWLQJ FDSDFLW\
1HW UHDOLVDEOH YDOXH LV WKH HVWLPDWHG VHOOLQJ SULFH LQ WKH RUGLQDU\ FRXUVH RI EXVLQHVV OHVV WKH HVWLPDWHG
FRVWV RI FRPSOHWLRQ DQG WKH HVWLPDWHG FRVWV QHFHVVDU\ WR PDNH WKH VDOH
Raw milk
5DZ PLONV DUH PHDVXUHG DW IDLU YDOXH OHVV FRVW WR VHOO 7KH IDLU YDOXHV RI WKH UDZ PLONV DUH GHWHUPLQHG
EDVHG RQ WKH REVHUYDEOH PDUNHW SULFHV LQ DFWLYH PDUNHW OHVV WKH QHFHVVDU\ WUDQVSRUWDWLRQ FRVW DW WKH SRLQW
RI VDOH &KDQJHV LQ IDLU YDOXH RI DJULFXOWXUH SURGXFH DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV FRQVLVW RI FDVK RQ KDQG EDODQFHV DQG GHSRVLWV ZLWK EDQNV DQG KLJKO\ OLTXLG
LQYHVWPHQWV ZKLFK KDYH DQ LQVLJQLILFDQW ULVN RI FKDQJHV LQ IDLU YDOXH ZLWK RULJLQDO PDWXULWLHV RI WKUHH PRQWKV
RU OHVV DQG DUH XVHG E\ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ LQ WKH PDQDJHPHQW RI WKHLU VKRUW WHUP FRPPLWPHQWV
)RU WKH SXUSRVH RI WKH FRQVROLGDWHG VWDWHPHQW RI FDVK IORZV FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV DUH SUHVHQWHG QHW
RI EDQN RYHUGUDIWV DQG SOHGJHG GHSRVLWV
(j) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ UHFRJQLVH ORVV DOORZDQFHV IRU H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV RQ ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV
PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW DQG OHDVH UHFHLYDEOHV ([SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV DUH D SUREDELOLW\ZHLJKWHG
HVWLPDWH RI FUHGLW ORVVHV
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ PHDVXUH ORVV DOORZDQFHV DW DQ DPRXQW HTXDO WR OLIHWLPH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW
ORVV H[FHSW IRU FDVK DQG EDQN EDODQFH IRU ZKLFK FUHGLW ULVN KDV QRW LQFUHDVHG VLJQLILFDQWO\ VLQFH LQLWLDO
UHFRJQLWLRQ ZKLFK DUH PHDVXUHG DW PRQWK H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVV /RVV DOORZDQFHV IRU WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV
DQG OHDVH UHFHLYDEOHV DUH DOZD\V PHDVXUHG DW DQ DPRXQW HTXDO WR OLIHWLPH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVV
:KHQ GHWHUPLQLQJ ZKHWKHU WKH FUHGLW ULVN RI D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW KDV LQFUHDVHG VLJQLILFDQWO\ VLQFH LQLWLDO
UHFRJQLWLRQ DQG ZKHQ HVWLPDWLQJ H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVV WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ FRQVLGHU UHDVRQDEOH
DQG VXSSRUWDEOH LQIRUPDWLRQ WKDW LV UHOHYDQW DQG DYDLODEOH ZLWKRXW XQGXH FRVW RU HIIRUW 7KLV LQFOXGHV
ERWK TXDQWLWDWLYH DQG TXDOLWDWLYH LQIRUPDWLRQ DQG DQDO\VLV EDVHG RQ WKH *URXSȇV KLVWRULFDO H[SHULHQFH
DQG LQIRUPHG FUHGLW DVVHVVPHQW DQG LQFOXGLQJ IRUZDUGORRNLQJ LQIRUPDWLRQ ZKHUH DYDLODEOH
/LIHWLPH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV DUH WKH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV WKDW UHVXOW IURP DOO SRVVLEOH GHIDXOW
HYHQWV RYHU WKH H[SHFWHG OLIH RI WKH DVVHW ZKLOH PRQWK H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV DUH WKH SRUWLRQ RI
H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV WKDW UHVXOW IURP GHIDXOW HYHQWV WKDW DUH SRVVLEOH ZLWKLQ WKH  PRQWKV DIWHU
WKH UHSRUWLQJ GDWH 7KH PD[LPXP SHULRG FRQVLGHUHG ZKHQ HVWLPDWLQJ H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV LV WKH
PD[LPXP FRQWUDFWXDO SHULRG RYHU ZKLFK WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH H[SRVHG WR FUHGLW ULVN
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ HVWLPDWH WKH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV RQ WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV XVLQJ D SURYLVLRQ
PDWUL[ ZLWK UHIHUHQFH WR KLVWRULFDO FUHGLW ORVV H[SHULHQFH
206
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment (continued)
(i) Financial assets (continued)
$Q LPSDLUPHQW ORVV LQ UHVSHFW RI ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV PHDVXUHG DW DPRUWLVHG FRVW LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW
RU ORVV DQG WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH DVVHW LV UHGXFHG WKURXJK WKH XVH RI DQ DOORZDQFH DFFRXQW
$W HDFK UHSRUWLQJ GDWH WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DVVHVV ZKHWKHU ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV FDUULHG DW DPRUWLVHG
FRVW DUH FUHGLWLPSDLUHG $ ILQDQFLDO DVVHW LV FUHGLW LPSDLUHG ZKHQ RQH RU PRUH HYHQWV WKDW KDYH D
GHWULPHQWDO LPSDFW RQ WKH HVWLPDWHG IXWXUH FDVK IORZV RI WKH ILQDQFLDO DVVHW KDYH RFFXUUHG
7KH JURVV FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI D ILQDQFLDO DVVHW LV ZULWWHQ RII HLWKHU SDUWLDOO\ RU IXOO WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW
WKHUH LV QR UHDOLVWLF SURVSHFW RI UHFRYHU\ 7KLV LV JHQHUDOO\ WKH FDVH ZKHQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\
GHWHUPLQHV WKDW WKH GHEWRU GRHV QRW KDYH DVVHWV RU VRXUFHV RI LQFRPH WKDW FRXOG JHQHUDWH VXIILFLHQW
FDVK IORZV WR UHSD\ WKH DPRXQWV VXEMHFW WR WKH ZULWHRII +RZHYHU ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV WKDW DUH ZULWWHQ
RII FRXOG VWLOO EH VXEMHFW WR HQIRUFHPHQW DFWLYLWLHV LQ RUGHU WR FRPSO\ ZLWK WKH *URXSȇV RU WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV
SURFHGXUHV IRU UHFRYHU\ DPRXQWV GXH
(ii) Other assets
7KH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV RI RWKHU DVVHWV H[FHSW IRU LQYHQWRULHV GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV OHDVH UHFHLYDEOHV
DQG ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV DUH UHYLHZHG DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WR GHWHUPLQH ZKHWKHU WKHUH LV
DQ\ LQGLFDWLRQ RI LPSDLUPHQW ΖI DQ\ VXFK LQGLFDWLRQ H[LVWV WKHQ WKH DVVHWȇV UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW LV
HVWLPDWHG )RU JRRGZLOO DQG LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV WKDW KDYH LQGHILQLWH XVHIXO OLYHV RU WKDW DUH QRW \HW
DYDLODEOH IRU XVH WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW LV HVWLPDWHG HDFK SHULRG DW WKH VDPH WLPH
)RU WKH SXUSRVH RI LPSDLUPHQW WHVWLQJ DVVHWV DUH JURXSHG WRJHWKHU LQWR WKH VPDOOHVW JURXS RI DVVHWV
WKDW JHQHUDWHV FDVK LQIORZV IURP FRQWLQXLQJ XVH WKDW DUH ODUJHO\ LQGHSHQGHQW RI WKH FDVK LQIORZV RI
RWKHU DVVHWV RU FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV 6XEMHFW WR DQ RSHUDWLQJ VHJPHQW FHLOLQJ WHVW IRU WKH SXUSRVH
RI JRRGZLOO LPSDLUPHQW WHVWLQJ FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV WR ZKLFK JRRGZLOO KDV EHHQ DOORFDWHG DUH DJJUHJDWHG
VR WKDW WKH OHYHO DW ZKLFK LPSDLUPHQW WHVWLQJ LV SHUIRUPHG UHIOHFWV WKH ORZHVW OHYHO DW ZKLFK JRRGZLOO
LV PRQLWRUHG IRU LQWHUQDO UHSRUWLQJ SXUSRVHV 7KH JRRGZLOO DFTXLUHG LQ D EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQ IRU WKH
SXUSRVH RI LPSDLUPHQW WHVWLQJ LV DOORFDWHG WR D FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW RU D JURXS RI FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ
XQLWV WKDW DUH H[SHFWHG WR EHQHILW IURP WKH V\QHUJLHV RI WKH FRPELQDWLRQ
7KH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW RI DQ DVVHW RU FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW LV WKH JUHDWHU RI LWV YDOXH LQ XVH DQG LWV
IDLU YDOXH OHVV FRVWV RI GLVSRVDO ΖQ DVVHVVLQJ YDOXH LQ XVH WKH HVWLPDWHG IXWXUH FDVK IORZV DUH GLVFRXQWHG
WR WKHLU SUHVHQW YDOXH XVLQJ D SUHWD[ GLVFRXQW UDWH WKDW UHIOHFWV FXUUHQW PDUNHW DVVHVVPHQWV RI WKH
WLPH YDOXH RI PRQH\ DQG WKH ULVNV VSHFLILF WR WKH DVVHW RU FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW
$Q LPSDLUPHQW ORVV LV UHFRJQLVHG LI WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI DQ DVVHW RU LWV UHODWHG FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW
H[FHHGV LWV HVWLPDWHG UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW
ΖPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV ΖPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV UHFRJQLVHG LQ UHVSHFW RI FDVK
JHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV DUH DOORFDWHG ILUVW WR UHGXFH WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI DQ\ JRRGZLOO DOORFDWHG WR WKH
FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW JURXS RI FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV DQG WKHQ WR UHGXFH WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV RI WKH
RWKHU DVVHWV LQ WKH FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLW JURXSV RI FDVKJHQHUDWLQJ XQLWV RQ D pro rata EDVLV
207
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Other assets (continued)
$Q LPSDLUPHQW ORVV LQ UHVSHFW RI JRRGZLOO LV QRW UHYHUVHG ΖQ UHVSHFW RI RWKHU DVVHWV LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV
UHFRJQLVHG LQ SULRU SHULRGV DUH DVVHVVHG DW WKH HQG RI HDFK UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG IRU DQ\ LQGLFDWLRQV WKDW
WKH ORVV KDV GHFUHDVHG RU QR ORQJHU H[LVWV $Q LPSDLUPHQW ORVV LV UHYHUVHG LI WKHUH KDV EHHQ D FKDQJH
LQ WKH HVWLPDWHV XVHG WR GHWHUPLQH WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW VLQFH WKH ODVW LPSDLUPHQW ORVV ZDV
UHFRJQLVHG $Q LPSDLUPHQW ORVV LV UHYHUVHG RQO\ WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW WKH DVVHWȇV FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW GRHV
QRW H[FHHG WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW WKDW ZRXOG KDYH EHHQ GHWHUPLQHG QHW RI GHSUHFLDWLRQ RU DPRUWLVDWLRQ
LI QR LPSDLUPHQW ORVV KDG EHHQ UHFRJQLVHG 5HYHUVDOV RI LPSDLUPHQW ORVVHV DUH FUHGLWHG WR SURILW RU
ORVV LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU LQ ZKLFK WKH UHYHUVDOV DUH UHFRJQLVHG
(k) Equity instruments
ΖQVWUXPHQWV FODVVLILHG DV HTXLW\ DUH PHDVXUHG DW FRVW RQ LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ DQG DUH QRW UHPHDVXUHG
VXEVHTXHQWO\
(i) Issue expense
&RVWV GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR LVVXH RI HTXLW\ LQVWUXPHQWV DUH UHFRJQLVHG DV D GHGXFWLRQ IURP HTXLW\
(ii) Ordinary shares
2UGLQDU\ VKDUHV DUH FODVVLILHG DV HTXLW\
(l) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
6KRUWWHUP HPSOR\HH EHQHILW REOLJDWLRQV LQ UHVSHFW RI VDODULHV DQQXDO ERQXVHV SDLG DQQXDO OHDYH DQG
VLFN OHDYH DUH PHDVXUHG RQ DQ XQGLVFRXQWHG EDVLV DQG DUH H[SHQVHG DV WKH UHODWHG VHUYLFH LV SURYLGHG
$ OLDELOLW\ LV UHFRJQLVHG IRU WKH DPRXQW H[SHFWHG WR EH SDLG XQGHU VKRUW WHUP FDVK ERQXV RU SURILW
VKDULQJ SODQV LI WKH *URXS KDV D SUHVHQW OHJDO RU FRQVWUXFWLYH REOLJDWLRQ WR SD\ WKLV DPRXQW DV D UHVXOW
RI SDVW VHUYLFH SURYLGHG E\ WKH HPSOR\HH DQG WKH REOLJDWLRQ FDQ EH HVWLPDWHG UHOLDEO\
(ii) State plans
7KH *URXSȇV FRQWULEXWLRQV WR VWDWXWRU\ SHQVLRQ IXQGV DUH FKDUJHG WR SURILW RU ORVV LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
WR ZKLFK WKH\ UHODWH 3UHSDLG FRQWULEXWLRQV DUH UHFRJQLVHG DV DQ DVVHW WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW D FDVK UHIXQG
RU D UHGXFWLRQ LQ IXWXUH SD\PHQWV LV DYDLODEOH
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
7KH JUDQW GDWH IDLU YDOXH RI VKDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW JUDQWHG WR HPSOR\HHV LV UHFRJQLVHG DV DQ HPSOR\HH
H[SHQVH ZLWK D FRUUHVSRQGLQJ LQFUHDVH LQ HTXLW\ RYHU WKH SHULRG WKDW WKH HPSOR\HHV XQFRQGLWLRQDOO\
EHFRPH HQWLWOHG WR WKH DZDUGV 7KH DPRXQW UHFRJQLVHG DV DQ H[SHQVH LV DGMXVWHG WR UHIOHFW WKH
QXPEHU RI DZDUGV IRU ZKLFK WKH UHODWHG VHUYLFH DQG QRQPDUNHW YHVWLQJ FRQGLWLRQV DUH H[SHFWHG WR
EH PHW VXFK WKDW WKH DPRXQW XOWLPDWHO\ UHFRJQLVHG DV DQ H[SHQVH LV EDVHG RQ WKH QXPEHU RI DZDUGV
WKDW PHHW WKH UHODWHG VHUYLFH DQG QRQPDUNHW SHUIRUPDQFH FRQGLWLRQV DW WKH YHVWLQJ GDWH
208
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(l) Employee benefits (continued)
(iii) Share-based payment transactions (continued)
)RU VKDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW DZDUGV ZLWK QRQYHVWLQJ FRQGLWLRQV WKH JUDQW GDWH IDLU YDOXH RI WKH VKDUH
EDVHG SD\PHQW LV PHDVXUHG WR UHIOHFW VXFK FRQGLWLRQV DQG WKHUH LV QR WUXHXS IRU GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ
H[SHFWHG DQG DFWXDO RXWFRPHV
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI WKH HPSOR\HH VKDUH RSWLRQV LV PHDVXUHG XVLQJ D ELQRPLDO ODWWLFH PRGHO 0HDVXUHPHQW
LQSXWV LQFOXGH VKDUH SULFH RQ PHDVXUHPHQW GDWH H[HUFLVH SULFH RI WKH LQVWUXPHQW H[SHFWHG YRODWLOLW\
EDVHG RQ ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH KLVWRULF YRODWLOLW\ DGMXVWHG IRU FKDQJHV H[SHFWHG GXH WR SXEOLFO\ DYDLODEOH
LQIRUPDWLRQ ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH H[SHFWHG OLIH RI WKH LQVWUXPHQWV EDVHG RQ KLVWRULFDO H[SHULHQFH DQG
JHQHUDO RSWLRQ KROGHU EHKDYLRXU H[SHFWHG GLYLGHQGV DQG WKH ULVNIUHH LQWHUHVW UDWH EDVHG RQ
JRYHUQPHQW ERQGV 6HUYLFH DQG QRQPDUNHW SHUIRUPDQFH FRQGLWLRQV DWWDFKHG WR WKH WUDQVDFWLRQV DUH
QRW WDNHQ LQWR DFFRXQW LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ IDLU YDOXH
(iv) Termination benefits
7HUPLQDWLRQ EHQHILWV DUH H[SHQVHG DW WKH HDUOLHU RI ZKHQ WKH *URXS FDQ QR ORQJHU ZLWKGUDZ WKH RIIHU
RI WKRVH EHQHILWV DQG ZKHQ WKH *URXS UHFRJQLVHV FRVWV IRU D UHVWUXFWXULQJ ΖI EHQHILWV DUH QRW H[SHFWHG
WR EH VHWWOHG ZKROO\ ZLWKLQ  PRQWKV RI WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKHQ WKH\ DUH GLVFRXQWHG
(m) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
5HYHQXH LV PHDVXUHG EDVHG RQ WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ VSHFLILHG LQ D FRQWUDFW ZLWK D FXVWRPHU LQ H[FKDQJH
IRU WUDQVIHUULQJ JRRGV RU VHUYLFHV WR D FXVWRPHU H[FOXGLQJ DPRXQWV FROOHFWHG RQ EHKDOI RI WKLUG SDUWLHV
7KH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ UHFRJQLVHV UHYHQXH ZKHQ RU DV LW WUDQVIHUV FRQWURO RYHU D SURGXFW RU
VHUYLFH WR FXVWRPHU $Q DVVHW LV WUDQVIHUUHG ZKHQ RU DV WKH FXVWRPHU REWDLQV FRQWURO RI WKH DVVHW
7KH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ WUDQVIHUV FRQWURO RI D JRRG RU VHUYLFH DW D SRLQW LQ WLPH XQOHVV RQH RI
WKH IROORZLQJ RYHU WLPH FULWHULD LV PHW
D WKH FXVWRPHU VLPXOWDQHRXVO\ UHFHLYHV DQG FRQVXPHV WKH EHQHILWV SURYLGHG DV WKH *URXS RU WKH
&RPSDQ\ SHUIRUPV
E WKH *URXSȇV RU WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV SHUIRUPDQFH FUHDWHV RU HQKDQFHV DQ DVVHW WKDW WKH FXVWRPHU
FRQWUROV DV WKH DVVHW LV FUHDWHG RU HQKDQFHG RU
F WKH *URXSȇV RU WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV SHUIRUPDQFH GRHV QRW FUHDWH DQ DVVHW ZLWK DQ DOWHUQDWLYH XVH DQG
WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV DQ HQIRUFHDEOH ULJKW WR SD\PHQW IRU SHUIRUPDQFH FRPSOHWHG WR
GDWH
(ii) Dairy cows/goats
7KH QHW JDLQ RU ORVV DULVLQJ IURP FKDQJHV RI IDLU YDOXH RI GDLU\ FRZVJRDWV RU GHDWK LV LQFOXGHG LQ
RWKHU LQFRPHRWKHU H[SHQVHV DFFRUGLQJO\
(iii) Government grant
*RYHUQPHQW JUDQWV DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQLWLDOO\ DV GHIHUUHG LQFRPH DW IDLU YDOXH ZKHQ WKHUH LV UHDVRQDEOH
DVVXUDQFH WKDW WKH\ ZLOO EH UHFHLYHG DQG WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ ZLOO FRPSO\ ZLWK WKH FRQGLWLRQV
DVVRFLDWHG ZLWK WKH JUDQW WKH\ DUH WKHQ UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV DV RWKHU LQFRPH RQ D V\VWHPDWLF
EDVLV RYHU WKH XVHIXO OLIH RI WKH DVVHW
209
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(m) Revenue and other income (continued)
(iv) Dividend income
'LYLGHQG LQFRPH LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV RQ WKH GDWH WKDW WKH *URXSȇV RU WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV ULJKW
WR UHFHLYH SD\PHQW LV HVWDEOLVKHG ZKLFK LQ WKH FDVH RI TXRWHG VHFXULWLHV LV WKH H[GLYLGHQG GDWH
(v) Interest income
ΖQWHUHVW LQFRPH LV UHFRJQLVHG DV LW DFFUXHV XVLQJ WKH HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW PHWKRG LQ SURILW RU ORVV H[FHSW
IRU LQWHUHVW LQFRPH DULVLQJ IURP WHPSRUDU\ LQYHVWPHQW RI ERUURZLQJV WDNHQ VSHFLILFDOO\ IRU WKH SXUSRVH
RI REWDLQLQJ D TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHW ZKLFK LV DFFRXQWHG IRU LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLF\ RQ
ERUURZLQJ FRVWV
(vi) Rental income
5HQWDO LQFRPH IURP SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW LV UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV RQ D VWUDLJKWOLQH
EDVLV RYHU WKH WHUP RI WKH OHDVH /HDVH LQFHQWLYHV JUDQWHG DUH UHFRJQLVHG DV DQ LQWHJUDO SDUW RI WKH
WRWDO UHQWDO LQFRPH RYHU WKH WHUP RI WKH OHDVH 5HQWDO LQFRPH IURP VXEOHDVHG SURSHUWLHV LV UHFRJQLVHG
DV RWKHU LQFRPH
(n) Borrowing costs
%RUURZLQJ FRVWV WKDW DUH QRW GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ FRQVWUXFWLRQ RU SURGXFWLRQ RI D TXDOLI\LQJ
DVVHW DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV XVLQJ WKH HIIHFWLYH LQWHUHVW PHWKRG
%RUURZLQJ FRVWV GLUHFWO\ DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ FRQVWUXFWLRQ RU SURGXFWLRQ RI TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHWV
ZKLFK DUH DVVHWV WKDW QHFHVVDULO\ WDNH D VXEVWDQWLDO SHULRG RI WLPH WR JHW UHDG\ IRU WKHLU LQWHQGHG XVH RU
VDOH DUH FDSLWDOLVHG DV SDUW RI WKH FRVW RI WKRVH DVVHWV
7KH FDSLWDOLVDWLRQ RI ERUURZLQJ FRVWV DV SDUW RI WKH FRVW RI D TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHW FRPPHQFHV ZKHQ H[SHQGLWXUH
IRU WKH DVVHW LV EHLQJ LQFXUUHG ERUURZLQJ FRVWV DUH EHLQJ LQFXUUHG DQG DFWLYLWLHV WKDW DUH QHFHVVDU\ WR
SUHSDUH WKH DVVHW IRU LWV LQWHQGHG XVH RU VDOH DUH LQ SURJUHVV &DSLWDOLVDWLRQ RI ERUURZLQJ FRVWV LV VXVSHQGHG
RU FHDVHV ZKHQ VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DOO WKH DFWLYLWLHV QHFHVVDU\ WR SUHSDUH WKH TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHW IRU LWV LQWHQGHG XVH
RU VDOH DUH LQWHUUXSWHG RU FRPSOHWHG
ΖQYHVWPHQW LQFRPH HDUQHG RQ WKH WHPSRUDU\ LQYHVWPHQW RI VSHFLILF ERUURZLQJV SHQGLQJ WKHLU H[SHQGLWXUH
RQ TXDOLI\LQJ DVVHWV LV GHGXFWHG IURP WKH ERUURZLQJ FRVWV HOLJLEOH IRU FDSLWDOLVDWLRQ
(o) Income tax
ΖQFRPH WD[ H[SHQVH FRPSULVHV FXUUHQW DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ &XUUHQW WD[ DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ
SURILW RU ORVV H[FHSW WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW LW UHODWHV WR D EXVLQHVV FRPELQDWLRQ RU LWHPV UHFRJQLVHG GLUHFWO\ LQ
HTXLW\ RU RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
&XUUHQW WD[ LV WKH H[SHFWHG WD[ SD\DEOH RU UHFHLYDEOH RQ WKH WD[DEOH LQFRPH RU ORVV IRU WKH \HDU XVLQJ WD[
UDWHV HQDFWHG RU VXEVWDQWLYHO\ HQDFWHG E\ WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG DQG DQ\ DGMXVWPHQW WR WD[
SD\DEOH LQ UHVSHFW RI SUHYLRXV ILQDQFLDO \HDUV
210
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(o) Income tax (continued)
'HIHUUHG WD[ LV UHFRJQLVHG XVLQJ WKH OLDELOLW\ PHWKRG SURYLGLQJ IRU WHPSRUDU\ GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ WKH
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV RI DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV LQ WKH FRQVROLGDWHG VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ DQG WKHLU WD[
EDVHV 'HIHUUHG WD[ LV QRW UHFRJQLVHG IRU WKH IROORZLQJ WHPSRUDU\ GLIIHUHQFHV DULVLQJ IURP WKH LQLWLDO
UHFRJQLWLRQ RI JRRGZLOO WKH LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ RI DVVHWV RU OLDELOLWLHV LQ D WUDQVDFWLRQ WKDW LV QRW D EXVLQHVV
FRPELQDWLRQ DQG WKDW DIIHFWV QHLWKHU DFFRXQWLQJ QRU WD[DEOH SURILW RU ORVV 'HIHUUHG WD[ LV PHDVXUHG DW WKH
WD[ UDWHV WKDW DUH H[SHFWHG WR EH DSSOLHG WR WKH WHPSRUDU\ GLIIHUHQFHV ZKHQ WKH\ UHYHUVH EDVHG RQ WKH
ODZV WKDW KDYH EHHQ HQDFWHG RU VXEVWDQWLYHO\ HQDFWHG E\ WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV DUH RIIVHW LI WKHUH LV D OHJDOO\ HQIRUFHDEOH ULJKW WR RIIVHW FXUUHQW WD[
OLDELOLWLHV DQG DVVHWV DQG WKH\ UHODWH WR LQFRPH WD[HV OHYLHG E\ WKH VDPH WD[ DXWKRULW\ RQ WKH VDPH WD[DEOH
HQWLW\ RU RQ GLIIHUHQW WD[ HQWLWLHV EXW WKH\ LQWHQG WR VHWWOH FXUUHQW WD[ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV RQ D QHW EDVLV
RU WKHLU WD[ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV ZLOO EH UHDOLVHG VLPXOWDQHRXVO\
$ GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHW LV UHFRJQLVHG WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW LW LV SUREDEOH WKDW IXWXUH WD[DEOH SURILWV ZLOO EH DYDLODEOH
DJDLQVW ZKLFK WKH WHPSRUDU\ GLIIHUHQFH FDQ EH XWLOLVHG 'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV DUH UHYLHZHG DW WKH HQG RI
HDFK UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG DQG DUH UHGXFHG WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW LW LV QR ORQJHU SUREDEOH WKDW WKH UHODWHG WD[
EHQHILW ZLOO EH UHDOLVHG
(p) Earnings per ordinary share
7KH *URXS SUHVHQWV EDVLF DQG GLOXWHG HDUQLQJV SHU VKDUH GDWD IRU LWV RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV Ȋ(36ȋ
%DVLF (36 LV FDOFXODWHG E\ GLYLGLQJ WKH SURILW RU ORVV DWWULEXWDEOH WR RUGLQDU\ VKDUHKROGHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\
E\ WKH ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV RXWVWDQGLQJ GXULQJ WKH SHULRG DGMXVWHG IRU RZQ VKDUHV
KHOG
'LOXWHG (36 LV GHWHUPLQHG E\ DGMXVWLQJ WKH SURILW RU ORVV DWWULEXWDEOH WR RUGLQDU\ VKDUHKROGHUV DQG WKH
ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV RXWVWDQGLQJ DGMXVWHG IRU RZQ VKDUHV KHOG IRU WKH HIIHFWV RI
DOO GLOXWLYH SRWHQWLDO RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV ZKLFK FRPSULVH FRQYHUWLEOH QRWHV DQG VKDUH RSWLRQV JUDQWHG WR
HPSOR\HHV
(q) Operating segments
$Q RSHUDWLQJ VHJPHQW LV D FRPSRQHQW RI WKH *URXS WKDW HQJDJHV LQ EXVLQHVV DFWLYLWLHV IURP ZKLFK LW PD\
HDUQ UHYHQXHV DQG LQFXU H[SHQVHV LQFOXGLQJ UHYHQXHV DQG H[SHQVHV WKDW UHODWH WR WUDQVDFWLRQV ZLWK DQ\
RI WKH *URXSȇV RWKHU FRPSRQHQWV 2SHUDWLQJ VHJPHQW UHVXOWV DUH UHYLHZHG UHJXODUO\ E\ WKH FKLHI RSHUDWLQJ
GHFLVLRQ PDNHU ZKLFK LQ WKLV FDVH LV WKH 0DQDJLQJ 'LUHFWRU RI WKH *URXS WR PDNH GHFLVLRQV DERXW UHVRXUFHV
WR EH DOORFDWHG WR WKH VHJPHQW DQG WR DVVHVV LWV SHUIRUPDQFH DQG IRU ZKLFK GLVFUHWH ILQDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ
LV DYDLODEOH
211
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(r) Contingencies
(i) Contingent liabilities
:KHUH LW LV QRW SUREDEOH WKDW DQ RXWIORZ RI HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV ZLOO EH UHTXLUHG RU WKH DPRXQW FDQQRW
EH HVWLPDWHG UHOLDEO\ WKH REOLJDWLRQ LV QRW UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH VWDWHPHQWV RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ DQG LV
GLVFORVHG DV D FRQWLQJHQW OLDELOLW\ XQOHVV WKH SUREDELOLW\ RI RXWIORZ RI HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV LV UHPRWH
3RVVLEOH REOLJDWLRQV ZKRVH H[LVWHQFH ZLOO RQO\ EH FRQILUPHG E\ WKH RFFXUUHQFH RU QRQRFFXUUHQFH RI
RQH RU PRUH IXWXUH HYHQWV DUH DOVR GLVFORVHG DV FRQWLQJHQW OLDELOLWLHV XQOHVV WKH SUREDELOLW\ RI RXWIORZ
RI HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV LV UHPRWH
(ii) Contingent assets
:KHQ DQ LQIORZ RI HFRQRPLF EHQHILW RI DQ DVVHW LV SUREDEOH ZKHUH LW DULVHV IURP SDVW HYHQWV DQG
ZKHUH H[LVWHQFH ZLOO EH FRQILUPHG RQO\ E\ WKH RFFXUUHQFH RU QRQRFFXUUHQFH RI RQH RU PRUH XQFHUWDLQ
IXWXUH HYHQWV QRW ZKROO\ ZLWKLQ WKH FRQWURO RI WKH HQWLW\ WKH DVVHW LV QRW UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH VWDWHPHQWV
RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ EXW LV EHLQJ GLVFORVHG DV D FRQWLQJHQW DVVHW :KHQ WKH LQIORZ RI HFRQRPLF EHQHILW
LV YLUWXDOO\ FHUWDLQ WKHQ WKH UHODWHG DVVHW LV UHFRJQLVHG
(s) Fair value measurements
)DLU YDOXH RI DQ DVVHW RU D OLDELOLW\ H[FHSW IRU VKDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW DQG OHDVH WUDQVDFWLRQV LV GHWHUPLQHG
DV WKH SULFH WKDW ZRXOG EH UHFHLYHG WR VHOO DQ DVVHW RU SDLG WR WUDQVIHU D OLDELOLW\ LQ DQ RUGHUO\ WUDQVDFWLRQ
EHWZHHQ PDUNHW SDUWLFLSDQWV DW WKH PHDVXUHPHQW GDWH 7KH PHDVXUHPHQW DVVXPHV WKDW WKH WUDQVDFWLRQ
WR VHOO WKH DVVHW RU WUDQVIHU WKH OLDELOLW\ WDNHV SODFH HLWKHU LQ WKH SULQFLSDO PDUNHW RU LQ WKH DEVHQFH RI D
SULQFLSDO PDUNHW LQ WKH PRVW DGYDQWDJHRXV PDUNHW
)RU QRQILQDQFLDO DVVHW WKH IDLU YDOXH PHDVXUHPHQW WDNHV LQWR DFFRXQW D PDUNHW SDUWLFLSDQWȇV DELOLW\ WR
JHQHUDWH HFRQRPLF EHQHILWV E\ XVLQJ WKH DVVHW LQ LWV KLJKHVW DQG EHVW XVH RU E\ VHOOLQJ LW WR DQRWKHU PDUNHW
SDUWLFLSDQW WKDW ZRXOG XVH WKH DVVHW LQ LWV KLJKHVW DQG EHVW XVH
:KHQ PHDVXULQJ WKH IDLU YDOXH RI DQ DVVHW RU D OLDELOLW\ WKH *URXS XVHV REVHUYDEOH PDUNHW GDWD DV IDU DV
SRVVLEOH )DLU YDOXH LV FDWHJRULVHG LQWR GLIIHUHQW OHYHOV LQ D IDLU YDOXH KLHUDUFK\ EDVHG RQ WKH LQSXW XVHG LQ
WKH YDOXDWLRQ WHFKQLTXH DV IROORZV
/HYHO  TXRWHG SULFHV XQDGMXVWHG LQ DFWLYH PDUNHWV IRU LGHQWLFDO DVVHWV RU OLDELOLWLHV WKDW WKH *URXS FDQ
DFFHVV DW WKH PHDVXUHPHQW GDWH
/HYHO  LQSXWV RWKHU WKDQ TXRWHG SULFHV LQFOXGHG ZLWKLQ /HYHO  WKDW DUH REVHUYDEOH IRU WKH DVVHW RU
OLDELOLW\ HLWKHU GLUHFWO\ RU LQGLUHFWO\
/HYHO  XQREVHUYDEOH LQSXWV IRU WKH DVVHW RU OLDELOLW\
7KH *URXS UHFRJQLVHV WUDQVIHUV EHWZHHQ OHYHOV RI WKH IDLU YDOXH KLHUDUFK\ DV RI WKH GDWH RI WKH HYHQW RU
FKDQJH LQ FLUFXPVWDQFHV WKDW FDXVHG WKH WUDQVIHUV
212
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land and
buildings
RM
Farm barn,
building and
electrical
installation
RM
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM
Office
and shop
equipment
and design
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Agrotourism
farm
RM
Construction
-in-progress
RM
Total
RM
At cost
$W  $SULO  47,381,441 79,460,965 204,737,822 4,765,791 9,543,922 – 16,590,681 362,480,622
Additions – 18,735,055 19,186,640 763,329 1,783,284 275,446 20,071,531 60,815,285
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII – (41,640) (820,504) (26,296) (367,440) – (321,433) (1,577,313)
Transfer – 2,353,422 1,712,685 – 69,600 117,310 (4,253,017) –
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (215,864) (13,006) (313,673) 366 (2,403) – 100,339 (444,241)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  47,165,577 100,494,796 224,502,970 5,503,190 11,026,963 392,756 32,188,101 421,274,353
Additions 29,513,796 22,955,604 26,209,749 3,809,492 2,836,786 2,130,028 30,378,831 117,834,286
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII (5,937,467) (422,439) (2,423,623) (93,520) (883,953) (65,000) – (9,826,002)
Transfer – 13,512,019 8,865,513 35,270 – 5,411,066 (27,823,868) –
$FTXLVLWLRQ RI VXEVLGLDULHV
1RWH  – – 2,452,876 183,343 1,356,519 – 34,165 4,026,903
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (2,733,222) (315,223) (5,064,025) (35,688) (268,193) – (474,443) (8,890,794)
$W  0DUFK  68,008,684 136,224,757 254,543,460 9,402,087 14,068,122 7,868,850 34,302,786 524,418,746
Accumulated depreciation
$W  $SULO  705,260 11,474,375 33,309,230 2,192,357 3,250,086 – – 50,931,308
'HSUHFLDWLRQ FKDUJH 169,820 4,882,847 19,206,500 736,156 1,733,357 9,664 – 26,738,344
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII – (957) (266,914) (17,362) (330,624) – – (615,857)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – 1,954 103,018 1,405 5,265 – – 111,642
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  875,080 16,358,219 52,351,834 2,912,556 4,658,084 9,664 – 77,165,437
'HSUHFLDWLRQ FKDUJH 169,821 5,274,808 21,551,981 1,337,389 2,390,704 339,532 – 31,064,235
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII – (11,560) (627,887) (17,045) (404,531) (4,333) – (1,065,356)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – (23,316) (747,775) (12,993) (94,461) – – (878,545)
$W  0DUFK  1,044,901 21,598,151 72,528,153 4,219,907 6,549,796 344,863 – 106,285,771
Accumulated impairment loss
$W  $SULO  – – 4,480,417 – – – – 4,480,417
Impairment loss – – 78,635 – – – – 78,635
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – – (20,164) – – – – (20,164)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  – – 4,538,888 – – – – 4,538,888
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – – (266,654) – – – – (266,654)
$W  0DUFK  – – 4,272,234 – – – – 4,272,234
Carrying amounts
$W  $SULO  46,676,181 67,986,590 166,948,175 2,573,434 6,293,836 – 16,590,681 307,068,897
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  46,290,497 84,136,577 167,612,248 2,590,634 6,368,879 383,092 32,188,101 339,570,028
$W  0DUFK  66,963,783 114,626,606 177,743,073 5,182,180 7,518,326 7,523,987 34,302,786 413,860,741
213
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Company
Farm barn,
building and
electrical
installation
RM
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM
Office
and shop
equipment
and design
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Construction
-in-progress
RM
Total
RM
At cost
$W  $SULO  39,782,750 69,528,972 904,320 826,394 2,402,049 113,444,485
Additions 4,352,354 11,423,458 304,151 391,100 3,604,248 20,075,311
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII (123) (48,332) – – – (48,455)
Transfer 1,194,920 1,467,667 – – (2,662,587) –
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  45,329,901 82,371,765 1,208,471 1,217,494 3,343,710 133,471,341
Additions 4,605,028 14,578,834 222,738 333,873 4,766,796 24,507,269
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII – (740,592) (72,980) – – (813,572)
Transfer 2,237,218 83,700 – – (2,320,918) –
$W  0DUFK  52,172,147 96,293,707 1,358,229 1,551,367 5,789,588 157,165,038
Accumulated depreciation
$W  $SULO  4,112,898 12,584,367 287,891 338,992 – 17,324,148
'HSUHFLDWLRQ FKDUJH 1,857,403 7,626,788 197,330 183,053 – 9,864,574
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  5,970,301 20,211,155 485,221 522,045 – 27,188,722
'HSUHFLDWLRQ FKDUJH 2,276,422 8,756,118 205,265 226,754 – 11,464,559
'LVSRVDOV:ULWWHQ RII – (322,629) – – – (322,629)
$W  0DUFK  8,246,723 28,644,644 690,486 748,799 – 38,330,652
Carrying amounts
$W  $SULO  35,669,852 56,944,605 616,429 487,402 2,402,049 96,120,337
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  39,359,600 62,160,610 723,250 695,449 3,343,710 106,282,619
$W  0DUFK  43,925,424 67,649,063 667,743 802,568 5,789,588 118,834,386
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
Carrying amounts of land and buildings
/DQG 58,758,655 
%XLOGLQJV 8,205,128 
66,963,783 
214
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Impairment loss – Australia’s operation
7KH *URXS DVVHVVHG WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW RI SODQW DQG PDFKLQHULHV XQGHU WKH IUXLW MDP DQG VDXFHV GLYLVLRQV
DQG UHFRJQLVHG D IXOO LPSDLUPHQW ORVV RI 50 DQG 50 LQ ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK 
DQG  0DUFK  UHVSHFWLYHO\ RQ FHUWDLQ SODQW DQG PDFKLQHULHV GXH WR ORVV LQFXUUHG LQ IUXLW MDP DQG VDXFHV
GLYLVLRQV
7KH LPSDLUPHQW ORVV ZDV UHFRJQLVHG DV RWKHU H[SHQVHV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI SURILW RU ORVV DQG RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH
LQFRPH
Assets under hire purchase
ΖQFOXGHG LQ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW RI WKH *URXS LV PRWRU YHKLFOHV DQG SODQW PDFKLQHULHV DFTXLUHG XQGHU
KLUH SXUFKDVH ZLWK FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI 50  50
Security
&HUWDLQ ODQG DQG EXLOGLQJV RI WKH *URXS ZLWK FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI 50  50 DUH FKDUJHG
WR EDQNV DV VHFXULW\ IRU EDQNLQJ IDFLOLWLHV JUDQWHG WR LWV VXEVLGLDU\ VHH 1RWH 
Properties subject to operating lease
7KH *URXS OHDVHV RQH RI LWV ZDUHKRXVHV WR D WKLUG SDUW\ XQGHU D VKRUWWHUP OHDVH DUUDQJHPHQW
7KH *URXS JHQHUDOO\ GRHV QRW UHTXLUH D ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHH RQ WKH OHDVH DUUDQJHPHQW 7KH UHQWDO LQFRPH LV
UHFRJQLVHG DV RWKHU LQFRPH LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI SURILW RU ORVV DQG RWKHU FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH DV GLVFORVH LQ
1RWH 
Others
ΖQFOXGHG LQ IDUP EDUQ EXLOGLQJ DQG HOHFWULFDO LQVWDOODWLRQ DQG FRQVWUXFWLRQLQSURJUHVV DUH WKH IROORZLQJ H[SHQVHV
FDSLWDOLVHG
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Staff costs 2,794,631  492,317 
ΖQFOXGHG LQ VWDII FRVWV FDSLWDOLVHG RI WKH *URXS DUH VKDUHEDVHG SD\PHQW DPRXQWLQJ WR 50  1Ζ/
215
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Land
RM
Buildings
RM
Total
RM
Group
At cost
$W  $SULO  14,883,074 936,695 15,819,769
Addition 110,164 500,485 610,649
Depreciation (1,104,697) (496,300) (1,600,997)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – (8,896) (8,896)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  13,888,541 931,984 14,820,525
Addition 2,714,255 4,173,832 6,888,087
Depreciation (1,123,400) (804,778) (1,928,178)
'HUHFRJQLWLRQ – (368,256) (368,256)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH – (33,766) (33,766)
$W  0DUFK  15,479,396 3,899,016 19,378,412
Company
At cost
$W  $SULO  3,150,449 218,489 3,368,938
Addition – 500,485 500,485
Depreciation (113,708) (119,622) (233,330)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  3,036,741 599,352 3,636,093
Addition 1,464,747 – 1,464,747
Depreciation (120,306) (29,415) (149,721)
'HUHFRJQLWLRQ – (368,256) (368,256)
$W  0DUFK  4,381,182 201,681 4,582,863
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ OHDVH D QXPEHU RI ODQG DQG EXLOGLQJV WKDW UXQ EHWZHHQ RQH \HDU DQG WKLUW\WKUHH
\HDUV
4.1 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to leases
7KH *URXS DVVHVVHV DW OHDVH FRPPHQFHPHQW E\ DSSO\LQJ VLJQLILFDQW MXGJHPHQW ZKHWKHU LW LV UHDVRQDEO\
FHUWDLQ WR H[HUFLVH WKH H[WHQVLRQ RSWLRQV *URXS HQWLWLHV FRQVLGHU DOO IDFWV DQG FLUFXPVWDQFHV LQFOXGLQJ
WKHLU SDVW SUDFWLFH DQG DQ\ FRVW WKDW ZLOO EH LQFXUUHG WR FKDQJH WKH DVVHW LI DQ RSWLRQ WR H[WHQG LV QRW
WDNHQ WR KHOS WKHP GHWHUPLQH WKH OHDVH WHUP
7KH *URXS DOVR DSSOLHG MXGJHPHQW DQG DVVXPSWLRQV LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH LQFUHPHQWDO ERUURZLQJ UDWH RI WKH
UHVSHFWLYH OHDVH *URXS HQWLWLHV ILUVW GHWHUPLQH WKH FORVHVW DYDLODEOH ERUURZLQJ UDWHV EHIRUH XVLQJ VLJQLILFDQW
MXGJHPHQW WR GHWHUPLQH WKH DGMXVWPHQWV UHTXLUHG WR UHIOHFW WKH WHUP VHFXULW\ YDOXH RU HFRQRPLF HQYLURQPHQW
RI WKH UHVSHFWLYH OHDVHV
4.2 Security
ΖQFOXGHG LQ ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV RI WKH *URXS ZLWK FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI 50  50
FKDUJHG WR EDQNV DV VHFXULW\ IRU EDQNLQJ IDFLOLWLHV JUDQWHG WR WKH VXEVLGLDU\ VHH 1RWH 
216
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Dairy cows and goats
At fair value
$W  $SULO 91,994,799  34,204,770 
Additions 29,364,483  17,253,608 
Disposals (8,208,938)  (13,969,244) 
1HW JDLQORVV DULVLQJ IURP FKDQJHV LQ IDLU
YDOXH RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV 110,302  (1,348,664) 
7UDQVIHU WR LQYHQWRULHV (542,830)  (542,830) 
Transfer from semen and embryos 297,712  – –
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (1,512,185)  – –
$W  0DUFK 111,503,343  35,597,640 
Semen and embryos
At cost
$W  $SULO 3,714,875  – –
Addition 293,680  – –
7UDQVIHU WR GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV (297,712)  – –
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (20,300)  – –
$W  0DUFK 3,690,543  – –
115,193,886  35,597,640 
7KH TXDQWLW\ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG GDLU\ JRDWV RZQHG E\ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ
SHULRG LV VKRZQ EHORZ
Group Company
2023
Heads
2022
Heads
2023
Heads
2022
Heads
*RDW KHUGV 239  – –
'DLU\ KHUGV 10,355  2,841 
Bulls 1,570  682 
12,164  3,523 
7KH UDZ PLON TXDQWLW\ SURGXFHG IURP GDLU\ KHUGV DQG JRDW KHUGV RZQHG E\ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ GXULQJ
WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU LV VKRZQ EHORZ
Group Company
2023
Litres
2022
Litres
2023
Litres
2022
Litres
*RDW KHUGV 22,487  – –
'DLU\ KHUGV 26,472,834  5,909,189 
26,495,321  5,909,189 
217
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
5.1 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to biological assets
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DSSOLHG MXGJHPHQW DQG DVVXPSWLRQV LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH YDOXDWLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO
DVVHWV 7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ ILUVW GHWHUPLQH WKH LPSRUW SULFH EHIRUH XVLQJ VLJQLILFDQW MXGJHPHQW
WR GHWHUPLQH WKH DGMXVWPHQWV UHTXLUHG WR UHIOHFW WKH EUHHG ZHLJKW DQG DJH JURXS RI WKH UHVSHFWLYH GDLU\
FRZV
Level 3 fair value
7KH IROORZLQJ WDEOH VKRZV WKH YDOXDWLRQ WHFKQLTXHV XVHG LQ WKH GHWHUPLQDWLRQ RI IDLU YDOXHV ZLWKLQ /HYHO  DV
ZHOO DV WKH VLJQLILFDQW XQREVHUYDEOH LQSXWV XVHG LQ WKH YDOXDWLRQ PRGHOV
Description of valuation technique and inputs used
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship
between significant
unobservable inputs and
fair value measurement
0DOD\VLDQ )DUP
D 5HSODFHPHQW FRVW DSSURDFK
5HIHUHQFH WR H[SHFWHG FRVW RI SXUFKDVH RI FRZV E\ RWKHU IDUPV
LQ 0DOD\VLD DQG RYHUVHDV DGMXVWHG IRU GLIIHUHQFHV LQ EUHHG
ZHLJKW DQG DJH JURXS
7KH WDEOH EHORZ VXPPDULVHV WKH SULFH UDQJH SHU KHDG
&RZV
&DOYHV DQG KHLIHUV 50 WR 50
 50 WR 50
0LONDEOH FRZV 50 WR 50
 50 WR 50
3ULFH SHU KHDG
of comparable
EUHHG DQG DJH
JURXS
7KH HVWLPDWHG IDLU YDOXH
ZRXOG LQFUHDVHGHFUHDVH LI
WKH SULFH SHU KHDG LV
KLJKHUORZHU
E &RPSDULVRQ DSSURDFK
5HIHUHQFH WR VDOH SULFH RI FRPSDUDEOH JRDW KHUGV DQG EXOOV DQG
DGMXVWHG IRU GLIIHUHQFHV LQ NH\ DWWULEXWHV VXFK DV EUHHG DQG DJH
7KH WDEOH EHORZ VXPPDULVHV WKH SULFH UDQJH SHU KHDG
*RDW KHUGV
50 WR 50  50 WR 50
Bulls
50 WR 50  50 WR 50
Australian Farm
&RPSDULVRQ DSSURDFK 5HIHUHQFH WR VDOH SULFH RI FRPSDUDEOH GDLU\
KHUGV DQG EXOOV DQG DGMXVWHG IRU GLIIHUHQFHV LQ NH\ DWWULEXWHV VXFK
DV EUHHG DQG DJH
7KH WDEOH EHORZ VXPPDULVHV WKH SULFH UDQJH SHU KHDG
&RZV
&DOYHV DQG KHLIHUV 50 WR 50
 50 WR 50
0LONDEOH FRZV 50  50
3ULFH SHU KHDG
of comparable
EUHHG DQG DJH
JURXS
7KH HVWLPDWHG IDLU YDOXH
ZRXOG LQFUHDVHGHFUHDVH LI
WKH SULFH SHU KHDG LV
KLJKHUORZHU
218
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Level 3 fair value (continued)
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI VHPHQ DQG HPEU\RV FDQQRW EH PHDVXUHG UHOLDEO\ DV WKHUH LV QR DFWLYH PDUNHW DQG WUDQVDFWLRQ
GDWD DYDLODEOH 7KH VHPHQ DQG HPEU\RV ZHUH ERXJKW IRU RZQ XVH WR LPSURYH WKH JHQHWLF TXDOLW\ RI WKH GDLU\
FRZV DQG WUDQVIHUUHG WR GDLU\ FRZV EDVHG RQ WKH FRQVXPSWLRQ
1R DPRUWLVDWLRQ LV UHFRJQLVHG IRU WKH VHPHQ DQG HPEU\RV GXH WR WKH IDFW WKDW WKHUH LV QR H[SLUDWLRQ GDWH RQ
IUR]HQ VHPHQ DQG HPEU\RV DV WKHVH DUH SURSHUO\ VWRUHG
7KH 'LUHFWRUV PRQLWRU RQ WKH NH\ IDFWRUV LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH IDLU YDOXH VXFK DV FRPSDUDEOH VDOHV SULFH DQG
IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH UDWH DIIHFWLQJ LPSRUW SULFH DV SDUW RI WKHLU ILQDQFLDO ULVN PDQDJHPHQW RQ ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Water-use
license
RM
Goodwill
RM
Brand
RM
Software
RM
Trademark
RM
Total
RM
Group
At cost
$W  $SULO  11,599,506 4,972,767 – 3,223,319 99,327 19,894,919
Addition – – – 409,756 19,398 429,154
Amortisation – – – (222,123) (11,178) (233,301)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (56,481) (24,217) – (8,850) – (89,548)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  11,543,025 4,948,550 – 3,402,102 107,547 20,001,224
$FTXLVLWLRQ RI D VXEVLGLDU\
1RWH  – – 235,972 – – 235,972
Addition – – – 298,737 25,758 324,495
Amortisation – – – (220,838) (14,157) (234,995)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFH (678,139) (290,721) (6,706) (34,347) – (1,009,913)
$W  0DUFK  10,864,886 4,657,829 229,266 3,445,654 119,148 19,316,783
Company
At cost
$W  $SULO  – – – 2,304,562 99,326 2,403,888
Addition – – – 396,007 19,399 415,406
Amortisation – – – – (11,178) (11,178)
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  – – – 2,700,569 107,547 2,808,116
Addition – – – 298,737 25,758 324,495
Amortisation – – – – (14,157) (14,157)
$W  0DUFK  – – – 2,999,306 119,148 3,118,454
7KH DPRUWLVDWLRQ LV UHFRJQLVHG DV DGPLQLVWUDWLYH H[SHQVHV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI SURILW RU ORVV DQG RWKHU
FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPH
219
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Water-use license
:DWHUXVH OLFHQVH LV DQ HQWLWOHPHQW WR LUULJDWH D VSHFLILF SDUFHO RU SDUFHOV RI ODQG 7KH XVHIXO OLYHV RI WKH ZDWHU
XVH OLFHQVH DUH HVWLPDWHG WR EH LQGHILQLWH DV WKH ZDWHUXVH OLFHQVH LV DOZD\V DWWDFKHG WR WKH RZQHU RI WKH ODQG
7KH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW RI ZDWHUXVH OLFHQVH ZDV GHWHUPLQHG EDVHG RQ WKH IDLU YDOXH OHVV WR FRVWV RI GLVSRVDO
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI ZDWHUXVH OLFHQVH LV EDVHG RQ PDUNHW FRPSDULVRQ WHFKQLTXH ZLWKLQ /HYHO  7KH YDOXDWLRQ PRGHO
LV EDVHG RQ PDUNHW WUDQVDFWLRQ SULFHV SXEOLVKHG RQ WKH UHOHYDQW DXWKRULW\ ZHEVLWH )RU WKH SXUSRVH RI LPSDLUPHQW
WHVWLQJ WKH PDQDJHPHQW KDV FRPSDUHG WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW DJDLQVW WKH WUDQVDFWLRQ SULFH SXEOLVKHG RQ WKH
UHOHYDQW DXWKRULW\ ZHEVLWH DV DW WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQG
%DVHG RQ WKH PDQDJHPHQW DVVHVVPHQW QR LPSDLUPHQW LV UHTXLUHG DV WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW ZDV KLJKHU WKDQ
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW
Goodwill
Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill
)RU WKH SXUSRVH RI LPSDLUPHQW WHVWLQJ JRRGZLOO LV DOORFDWHG WR WKH *URXSȇV RSHUDWLQJ FRPSDQLHV ZKLFK UHSUHVHQW
WKH ORZHVW OHYHO ZLWKLQ WKH *URXS DW ZKLFK WKH LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV LV PRQLWRUHG IRU LQWHUQDO PDQDJHPHQW SXUSRVH
7KH DJJUHJDWH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI JRRGZLOO DOORFDWHG WR WKH XQLW LV DV IROORZV
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
$XVWUDOLDȇV .\DEUDP IDFLOLWLHV DQG IUXLW MDP DQG VDXFHV GLYLVLRQV 4,657,829 
D 7KH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW RI D &DVK *HQHUDWLQJ 8QLW Ȋ&*8ȋ LV GHWHUPLQHG EDVHG RQ YDOXH LQ XVH FDOFXODWLRQV
7KHVH FDOFXODWLRQV XVHG FDVK IORZ SURMHFWLRQV EDVHG RQ ILQDQFLDO EXGJHWV DSSURYHG E\ 'LUHFWRUV IRU SHULRGV
FRYHULQJ D ILYH\HDU SHULRG 7KH PDQDJHPHQW KDV FRQVLGHUHG DQG GHWHUPLQHG WKH IDFWRUV DSSOLHG LQ WKH
ILQDQFLDO EXGJHWV ZKLFK LQFOXGH EXGJHWHG JURVV PDUJLQV SUHWD[ GLVFRXQW UDWHV DQG HVWLPDWHG JURZWK UDWHV
7KH EXGJHWHG JURVV PDUJLQV DUH EDVHG RQ SDVW SHUIRUPDQFH DQG WKH DYHUDJH JURZWK UDWHV DQG GLVFRXQW
UDWHV XVHG DUH EDVHG RQ PDQDJHPHQWȇV EHVW HVWLPDWH
E 7KH NH\ DVVXPSWLRQV XVHG LQ WKH YDOXH LV XVH FDOFXODWLRQV DUH DV IROORZV
L &DVK IORZV ZHUH SURMHFWHG EDVHG RQ D \HDU EXVLQHVV SODQ
LL *URVV PDUJLQV DUH SURMHFWHG EDVHG RQ WKH KLVWRULFDO SURILW PDUJLQ DFKLHYHG RU SUHGHWHUPLQHG SURILW
PDUJLQ IRU WKH SURGXFWV
LLL $ SUHWD[ GLVFRXQW UDWH RI  KDV EHHQ DSSOLHG LQ GHWHUPLQLQJ WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW RI WKH &*8V
7KH GLVFRXQW UDWH ZDV HVWLPDWHG EDVHG RQ ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH FRVW RI FDSLWDO RI $XVWUDOLDQ IRRG DQG
EHYHUDJH LQGXVWU\
LY 7KH VXEVLGLDU\ ZLOO FRQWLQXH LWV RSHUDWLRQ LQGHILQLWHO\
%DVHG RQ WKH PDQDJHPHQW DVVHVVPHQW QR LPSDLUPHQW LV UHTXLUHG DV WKH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW ZDV KLJKHU WKDQ
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW 0DQDJHPHQW EHOLHYHV WKDW DQ\ UHDVRQDEO\ SRVVLEOH FKDQJH LQ DQ\ RI WKHVH NH\ DVVXPSWLRQV
ZRXOG QRW FDXVH WKH DJJUHJDWH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH &*8V WR H[FHHG WKH DJJUHJDWH UHFRYHUDEOH DPRXQW
220
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
&RVW RI LQYHVWPHQW 64,748,888 
/RDQV WR VXEVLGLDULHV 76,589,125 
141,338,013 
ΖQFOXGHG LQ LQYHVWPHQW LQ VXEVLGLDULHV LV DQ DPRXQW RI 50  1Ζ/ DULVLQJ IURP WKH (626 JUDQWHG
WR WKH VXEVLGLDULHVȇ HPSOR\HHV
7KH ORDQV WR VXEVLGLDULHV DUH LQWHUHVWIUHH DQG XQVHFXUHG 7KH VHWWOHPHQW RI WKH ORDQV LV QHLWKHU SODQQHG QRU
OLNHO\ WR RFFXU LQ WKH IRUHVHHDEOH IXWXUH $V WKHVH ORDQV LQ VXEVWDQFH IRUP SDUW RI WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV QHW LQYHVWPHQW
LQ WKH VXEVLGLDU\ WKH\ DUH VWDWHG DW FRVW
'HWDLOV RI WKH VXEVLGLDULHV DUH DV IROORZV
Name of entity
Principal
place of
business/
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Effective ownership
interest and voting
interest
2023
%
2022
%
)DUP )UHVK 0LON 6GQ %KG 0DOD\VLD 5HDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV DQG WKH
SURGXFWLRQ PDUNHWLQJ DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV
DQG JRDWȇV PLON DQG SODQWEDVHG UHODWHG
products
100 
*(0 2UJDQLFV 0 6GQ %KG 0DOD\VLD 3URSHUW\ KROGLQJ 100 
$)6 'DLU\ &RPSDQ\ $XVWUDOLD
3W\ /WG
Australia +ROGLQJ RI WKH VHPHQ DQG HPEU\RV RI
$XVWUDOLDQ )UHVLDQ 6DKLZDO GDLU\ FDWWOH
100 
+ROVWHLQ 'DLU\ 'HVDUX 6GQ %KG 0DOD\VLD 5HDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV
PLON
100 
+ROVWHLQ 6HODPD 'DLU\ 6GQ %KG 0DOD\VLD 5HDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV
PLON
100 
6HUGDQJ 'DLU\ 6GQ %KG 0DOD\VLD 5HDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV
PLON
100 
7KH +ROVWHLQ 0LON &RPSDQ\ 0
6GQ %KG
0DOD\VLD Dormant 100 
)DUP )UHVK -RPFKD 6GQ %KG@ 0DOD\VLD 2SHUDWLRQ RI Ȋ-RPFKDȋ FKDLQV RI EHYHUDJH
RXWOHWV DV ZHOO DV SURYLGLQJ OLFHQVLQJ RI
Ȋ-RPFKDȋ EHYHUDJH RXWOHWV
100 –
7KH +ROVWHLQ 0LON &RPSDQ\
$XVWUDOLD 3W\ /WG#
Australia ΖQYHVWPHQW KROGLQJ 80 
)DUP )UHVK 0LON +. /LPLWHG +RQJ .RQJ Dormant 100 
)DUP )UHVK ΖQFRUSRUDWHG# 3KLOLSSLQHV 3URGXFWLRQ DQG VDOH RI PLON SURGXFWV 100 –
221
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Name of entity
Principal
place of
business/
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Effective ownership
interest and voting
interest
2023
%
2022
%
7KH 3URYHQDQFH &UHDPHU\
3WH /WG
6LQJDSRUH Distribution and retail of dairy product 100 –
Subsidiaries of The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd
*RXOEXUQ 9DOOH\ &UHDPHU\ 3W\ /WG# Australia 5HDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG WKH SURGXFWLRQ
PDUNHWLQJ DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV PLON
80 
+HQU\ -RQHV )RRGV 3W\ /WG# Australia 0DQXIDFWXULQJ RI MDP DQG VDXFHV 80 
Subsidiary of Goulburn Valley Creamery Pty Ltd
6W 'DYLG 'DLU\ 3W\ /WG Australia 6DOH RI FRZȇV PLON EXWWHU \RJXUW FUHDP
DQG FKHHVH
72 –
# 1RW DXGLWHG E\ .30* 3/7
@ ΖQFRUSRUDWHG GXULQJ WKH \HDU
 $FTXLUHG GXULQJ WKH \HDU VHH 1RWH 
 4XDOLILHV IRU DXGLW H[HPSWLRQ DQG LV QRW DXGLWHG
7.1 Non-controlling interests
7KH *URXSȇV VXEVLGLDULHV WKDW KDYH PDWHULDO QRQFRQWUROOLQJ LQWHUHVWV Ȋ1&Ζȋ DUH DV IROORZV
2023
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
Other
immaterial
subsidiary Total
NCI percentage of ownership interest
and voting interest 20%
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
&DUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI 1&Ζ 5,669 (773) 4,896
3URILW/RVV DOORFDWHG WR 1&Ζ 651 (796) (145)
7RWDO FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPHH[SHQVH
DOORFDWHG WR 1&Ζ 322 (796) (474)
222
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
7.1 Non-controlling interests (continued)
2022
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
Other
immaterial
subsidiary Total
NCI percentage of ownership interest
and voting interest 
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
&DUU\LQJ DPRXQW RI 1&Ζ   
/RVV DOORFDWHG WR 1&Ζ   
7RWDO FRPSUHKHQVLYH H[SHQVH DOORFDWHG WR 1&Ζ   
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries
Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination
As at 31 March
1RQFXUUHQW DVVHWV 167,789 
&XUUHQW DVVHWV 66,309 
1RQFXUUHQW OLDELOLWLHV (99,241) 
&XUUHQW OLDELOLWLHV (106,105) 
Net assets 28,752 
Year ended 31 March
5HYHQXH 224,648 
3URILW/RVV IRU WKH \HDU 4,311 
7RWDO FRPSUHKHQVLYH LQFRPHH[SHQVH 5,915 
&DVK IORZV IURP RSHUDWLQJ DFWLYLWLHV 9,462 
&DVK IORZV XVHG LQ LQYHVWLQJ DFWLYLWLHV (15,931) 
&DVK IORZV IURP ILQDQFLQJ DFWLYLWLHV 9,451 
1HW LQFUHDVH LQ FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 2,982 
223
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Non-current
1HW LQYHVWPHQW LQ OHDVH  758,651  – –
2WKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 371,395 – – –
1,130,046  – –
Current
7UDGH UHFHLYDEOHV  101,964,110  31,954,670 
2WKHU UHFHLYDEOHV  5,535,568  3,309,947 
Deposits 3,118,196  1,023,610 
Prepayments 7,534,308  4,369,089 
$GYDQFH SD\PHQWV   12,952,814  4,565,320 
1HW LQYHVWPHQW LQ OHDVH  316,460  – –
131,421,456  45,222,636 
132,551,502  45,222,636 
8.1 Net investment in lease
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
$W  $SULO 1,088,326 
Addition 442,091 –
Interest income 56,580 
/HDVH SD\PHQWV UHFHLYHG (338,066) 
'HUHFRJQLWLRQ (173,820) –
$W  0DUFK 1,075,111 
7KH *URXS OHDVHV VHYHUDO PRWRU YHKLFOHV WR WKLUG SDUWLHV (DFK RI WKH OHDVHV FRQWDLQV DQ LQLWLDO QRQFDQFHOODEOH
SHULRG RI WKUHH WR ILYH \HDUV ZLWK D IL[HG UHQW
7KHVH OHDVHV WUDQVIHU VXEVWDQWLDOO\ DOO WKH ULVN DQG UHZDUGV LQFLGHQWDO WR RZQHUVKLS RI WKH PRWRU YHKLFOHV
7KH *URXS H[SHFWV WKH UHVLGXDO YDOXH RI WKH PRWRU YHKLFOHV DW WKH HQG RI WKH OHDVH WHUP WR EH PLQLPDO
7KHVH OHDVHV GR QRW LQFOXGH EX\EDFN DJUHHPHQWV RU UHVLGXDO YDOXH JXDUDQWHHV
224
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
8.1 Net investment in lease (continued)
7KH OHDVH SD\PHQWV WR EH UHFHLYHG DUH DV IROORZV
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
/HVV WKDQ RQH \HDU 364,142 
2QH WR WZR \HDUV 325,925 
7ZR WR WKUHH \HDUV 223,825 
7KUHH WR IRXU \HDUV 86,100 
)RXU WR ILYH \HDUV 180,525 –
Total undiscounted lease payments 1,180,517 
Unearned interest income (105,406) 
1HW LQYHVWPHQW LQ OHDVH 1,075,111 
7KH IROORZLQJ DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
*DLQ IRU QHZ ILQDQFH OHDVH HQWHUHG LQWR 123,758 –
8.2 ΖQFOXGHG LQ WUDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV DUH DPRXQWV GXH IURP FRPSDQLHV LQ ZKLFK FHUWDLQ 'LUHFWRUV RI
WKH *URXS KDYH VXEVWDQWLDO ILQDQFLDO LQWHUHVWV
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
2WKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 10,991 
$GYDQFH SD\PHQW IRU DFTXLVLWLRQ RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV 1,854,001 –
1,864,992 
8.3 7KH DGYDQFH SD\PHQWV RWKHU WKDQ WKRVH PHQWLRQHG LQ 1RWH  DERYH DUH SDLG WR VXSSOLHUV IRU UDZ PDWHULDOV
DQG VHUYLFHV WR EH SHUIRUPHG 7KHVH DGYDQFHV DUH XQVHFXUHG LQWHUHVW IUHH DQG H[SHFWHG WR VHW RII DJDLQVW
IXWXUH ELOOLQJV
225
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV DUH DWWULEXWDEOH WR WKH IROORZLQJ
Assets Liabilities Net
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Group
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW – – (13,677,504)  (13,677,504) 
&KDQJH LQ IDLU YDOXH RI ELRORJLFDO
assets – – (7,660,950)  (7,660,950) 
)DLU YDOXH ORVV RI GHULYDWLYH DVVHWV – – (205,534)  (205,534) 
)DLU YDOXH ORVV RI GHULYDWLYH OLDELOLWLHV 407,000 – – – 407,000 –
$OORZDQFH IRU LPSDLUPHQW LQ UHVSHFW
RI WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV 81,000  – – 81,000 
6ORZPRYLQJ LQYHQWRULHV 322,366  – – 322,366 
8QDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV 6,200,000  – – 6,200,000 
8QXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV 11,891,238  – – 11,891,238 
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI RWKHU
LQYHVWPHQWV –  (581,000) – (581,000) 
2WKHUV 3,165,717  – – 3,165,717 
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWVOLDELOLWLHV 22,067,321  (22,124,988)  (57,667) 
6HW RII RI WD[ (14,393,505)  14,393,505  – –
1HW GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWVOLDELOLWLHV 7,673,816  (7,731,483)  (57,667) 
Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW (6,238,000) 
)DLU YDOXH ORVV RI GHULYDWLYH DVVHWV – 
)DLU YDOXH JDLQ RI GHULYDWLYH OLDELOLWLHV 34,000 –
8QDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV 5,000 
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV (472,000) 
2WKHUV 237,000 
(6,434,000) 
7KH &RPSDQ\ KDV EHHQ JUDQWHG DSSURYDO RI (DVW &RDVW (FRQRPLF 5HJLRQ ΖQFHQWLYH Ȋ(&(5 LQFHQWLYHȋ XQGHU
ΖQFRPH 7D[ $FW  IRU PLON DQG FKHHVH SURFHVVLQJ SURMHFWV 8QGHU WKH LQFHQWLYHV WKH &RPSDQ\ LV DOORZHG
WR FODLP LQFRPH WD[ H[HPSWLRQ RQ LWV VWDWXWRU\ LQFRPH DULVLQJ IURP TXDOLI\LQJ SURMHFWV IRU   \HDUV
FRPPHQFLQJ IURP WKH ILUVW \HDU WKH &RPSDQ\ GHULYHV VWDWXWRU\ LQFRPH LH IURP <$ 7KH (&(5 LQFHQWLYH
LV VXEMHFW WR DQG XSRQ IXOILOPHQW RI WKH QHFHVVDU\ FRQGLWLRQV DQG UHTXLUHPHQWV DV VSHFLILHG LQ WKH DSSURYDO
OHWWHU /RVVHV LQFXUUHG EHIRUH WKH H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG DQG GXULQJ WKH H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG DUH DOORZHG WR EH FDUULHG
IRUZDUG IRU XWLOLVDWLRQ GXULQJ WKH SRVW H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG
226
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (continued)
$ VXEVLGLDU\ KDV EHHQ JUDQWHG $JULFXOWXUDO 7D[ ΖQFHQWLYH XQGHU 6HFWLRQ  RI ΖQFRPH 7D[ $FW  IRU UHDULQJ
RI FRZVJRDWV DQG FRZVJRDWV PLON SURFHVVLQJ SURMHFWV 8QGHU WKH LQFHQWLYHV WKH VXEVLGLDU\ LV DOORZHG WR FODLP
LQFRPH WD[ H[HPSWLRQ RQ LWV VWDWXWRU\ LQFRPH DULVLQJ IURP TXDOLI\LQJ SURMHFWV IRU  \HDUV FRPPHQFLQJ IURP
WKH ILUVW \HDU WKH VXEVLGLDU\ GHULYHV VWDWXWRU\ LQFRPH LH IURP <$ /RVVHV LQFXUUHG EHIRUH WKH H[HPSWLRQ
SHULRG DQG GXULQJ WKH H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG DUH DOORZHG WR EH FDUULHG IRUZDUG IRU XWLOLVDWLRQ GXULQJ WKH SRVW
H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG
$FFRUGLQJO\ WKH GHIHUUHG WD[ OLDELOLWLHV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG WKH VXEVLGLDU\ DUH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO
VWDWHPHQWV WR WKH H[WHQW WKDW WKH\ DUH H[SHFWHG WR EH UHYHUVHGXWLOLVHG DIWHU WKH  \HDUV H[HPSWLRQ SHULRG
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV KDYH QRW EHHQ UHFRJQLVHG LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH IROORZLQJ LWHPV LQ FHUWDLQ VXEVLGLDULHV VWDWHG
DW JURVV
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW (9,716,000) 
8QDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV 9,741,000 
8QXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV 16,013,000 
&KDQJH LQ IDLU YDOXH RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV (3,653,000) 
2WKHUV 740,000 
13,125,000 
'HIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV KDYH QRW EHHQ UHFRJQLVHG LQ UHVSHFW RI WKHVH LWHPV EHFDXVH LW LV QRW SUREDEOH WKDW IXWXUH
WD[DEOH SURILW ZLOO EH DYDLODEOH DJDLQVW ZKLFK WKH *URXS FDQ XWLOLVH WKH EHQHILWV WKHUHIURP
7KH FRPSDUDWLYH ILJXUHV KDYH EHHQ UHVWDWHG WR UHIOHFW WKH UHYLVHG GHGXFWLEOH WHPSRUDU\ GLIIHUHQFHV XQDEVRUEHG
FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV DQG XQXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV DYDLODEOH WR WKH *URXS
7KH XQUHFRJQLVHG XQXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV ZLOO H[SLUH LQ WKH IROORZLQJ \HDUV RI DVVHVVPHQW
Group
2023
RM
2022
RM
 6,097,000 
 788,000 
 1,038,000 
 2,065,000 
 2,579,000 
 3,446,000 –
16,013,000 
7KH XQDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV GR QRW H[SLUH XQGHU WKH FXUUHQW WD[ OHJLVODWLRQ
227
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At
1 April
2021
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 22)
RM
Exchange
differences
RM
At
31 March
2022/
1 April
2022
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 22)
RM
Exchange
differences
RM
At
31 March
2023
RM
Group
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW     (2,108,671) 66,515 (13,677,504)
&KDQJH LQ IDLU YDOXH RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV     (1,121,617) 96,537 (7,660,950)
)DLU YDOXH ORVV RI GHULYDWLYH DVVHWV –    196,685 6,596 (205,534)
)DLU YDOXH ORVV RI GHULYDWLYH OLDELOLWLHV – – – – 407,000 – 407,000
$OORZDQFH IRU LPSDLUPHQW LQ UHVSHFW RI
WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV
  5  37,750 – 81,000
6ORZPRYLQJ LQYHQWRULHV     (34,412) (6,912) 322,366
8QDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV   –  2,568,000 – 6,200,000
8QXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV     (3,035,428) (316,133) 11,891,238
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV –  –  (590,000) – (581,000)
2WKHUV     2,381,889 (363,139) 3,165,717
    (1,298,804) (516,536) (57,667)
At
1 April
2021
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 22)
RM
At
31 March
2022/
1 April
2022
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 22)
RM
At
31 March
2023
RM
Company
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW    (274,000) (6,238,000)
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI GHULYDWLYH DVVHW –   1,000 –
)DLU YDOXH JDLQ RI GHULYDWLYH OLDELOLWLHV – – – 34,000 34,000
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV –   (521,000) (472,000)
8QDEVRUEHG FDSLWDO DOORZDQFHV –   (1,000) 5,000
8QXWLOLVHG WD[ ORVVHV   – – –
2WKHUV    25,000 237,000
   (736,000) (6,434,000)
228
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
10. DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
Non-current
Due from subsidiaries
Ȃ QRQWUDGH 67,200,000 
Current
Due from subsidiaries
– trade 5,880,428 
Ȃ QRQWUDGH 123,976,151 
129,856,579 
Due to subsidiaries
– trade (53,070,359) 
7KH QRQFXUUHQW DPRXQWV GXH IURP VXEVLGLDULHV DUH XQVHFXUHG VXEMHFW WR DQ LQWHUHVW RI   
SHU DQQXP RQ WKH PRQWKO\ RXWVWDQGLQJ EDODQFHV DQG DUH UHFHLYDEOH E\  $SULO 
7KH UHPDLQLQJ FXUUHQW QRQWUDGH SRUWLRQ RI DPRXQWV GXH IURPWR VXEVLGLDULHV DUH XQVHFXUHG LQWHUHVW IUHH DQG
UHSD\DEOH RQ GHPDQG ZKLOH WKH WUDGH SRUWLRQ LV VXEMHFW WR QRUPDO WUDGH WHUPV
11. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
5DZ PDWHULDO 86,690,973  54,271,532 
5DZ PLON 57,648,787  28,319,817 
&RQVXPDEOHV 11,475,604  1,374,025 
*RRGVLQWUDQVLW 6,226,105  309,932 
)LQLVKHG JRRGV 11,141,225  6,008,901 
:RUNLQSURJUHVV 491,922  462,301 
173,674,616  90,746,508 
5HFRJQLVHG LQ SURILW RU ORVV
Ȃ ΖQYHQWRULHV UHFRJQLVHG DV FRVW RI VDOHV 347,663,364  178,848,202 
Ȃ 
5HYHUVDO RI:ULWWHQ RII RI REVROHWH
  DQG VORZPRYLQJ LQYHQWRULHV (174,943)  (54,238) 
347,488,421  178,793,964 
229
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Group Company
2023 2023
Nominal
value
RM
Asset/
(Liabilities)
RM
Nominal
value
RM
Asset/
(Liabilities)
RM
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV 55,126,053 (1,694,958) 5,074,916 (142,038)
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS 14,812,000 685,111 – –
69,938,053 (1,009,847) 5,074,916 (142,038)
2022 2022
Nominal
value
RM
Asset
RM
Nominal
value
RM
Asset
RM
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV    
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS   – –
   
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV DUH XVHG WR PDQDJH WKH IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ H[SRVXUHV DULVLQJ IURP WKH *URXSȇV
SD\DEOHV GHQRPLQDWHG LQ FXUUHQFLHV RWKHU WKDQ WKH IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RI *URXS HQWLWLHV 0RVW RI WKH IRUZDUG
H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV KDYH PDWXULWLHV RI OHVV WKDQ RQH \HDU DIWHU WKH \HDU HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG :KHUH
QHFHVVDU\ WKH IRUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV DUH UROOHG RYHU DW PDWXULW\
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS LV XVHG WR DFKLHYH DQ DSSURSULDWH PL[ RI IL[HG DQG IORDWLQJ LQWHUHVW UDWH H[SRVXUH ΖQ WKH
FXUUHQW ILQDQFLDO \HDU WKH *URXS HQWHUHG LQWR DQ LQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS ZLWK QRPLQDO YDOXH RI 50 
50 WR KHGJH WKH FDVK IORZ ULVN LQ UHODWLRQ WR WKH IORDWLQJ LQWHUHVW UDWH RI D EDQN ORDQ
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss:
0RQH\ PDUNHW IXQG 155,789,952  144,999,123 
230
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
&DVK DQG EDQN EDODQFHV 22,919,339  6,850,502 
'HSRVLWV SODFHG ZLWK OLFHQVHG EDQNV 50,252  – –
22,969,591  6,850,502 
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital
Group/Company
Group/Company
Number of ordinary shares
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023 2022
ΖVVXHG DQG IXOO\ SDLG VKDUHV ZLWK
QR SDU YDOXH FODVVLILHG DV HTXLW\
LQVWUXPHQWV
2UGLQDU\ VKDUHV
$W  $SULO 380,607,443  1,857,954,837 
6KDUHV LVVXHG XQGHU (626 463,572 – 284,400 –
Bonus Issue  – – – 
ΖVVXHG IRU ΖQLWLDO 3XEOLF 2IIHULQJ  –  – 
6KDUH LVVXDQFH H[SHQVHV IRU WKH
Public Issue –  – –
$W  0DUFK 381,071,015  1,858,239,237 
 ΖQ UHVSHFW RI ERQXV LVVXH RI  RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV LQ SULRU \HDU DW 1Ζ/ FRQVLGHUDWLRQ ZLWKRXW
FDSLWDOLVLQJ WKH UHWDLQHG HDUQLQJV RU UHVHUYHV
 ΖQ SULRU \HDU WKH &RPSDQ\ LVVXHG  RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV DV SDUW RI WKH ΖQLWLDO 3XEOLF 2IIHULQJ DW
50 SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH
Reserves
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Non-distributable
7UDQVODWLRQ UHVHUYH (6,633,677)  – –
(PSOR\HH VKDUHEDVHG UHVHUYH 3,642,167 – 3,642,167 –
(2,991,510)  3,642,167 –
Distributable
5HWDLQHG HDUQLQJV 252,925,654  94,952,574 
249,934,144  98,594,741 
231
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Translation reserve
7KH WUDQVODWLRQ UHVHUYH FRPSULVHV DOO IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ GLIIHUHQFHV DULVLQJ IURP WKH WUDQVODWLRQ RI WKH ILQDQFLDO
VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH *URXS HQWLWLHV ZLWK IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RWKHU WKDQ 50
Employee share-based reserve
(PSOR\HH VKDUHEDVHG UHVHUYH UHSUHVHQWV FXPXODWLYH YDOXH RI HPSOR\HH VHUYLFHV UHFHLYHG IRU WKH LVVXH RI VKDUH
RSWLRQV
:KHQ WKH RSWLRQ LV H[HUFLVHG WKH DPRXQW IURP WKH VKDUH RSWLRQ UHVHUYH LV WUDQVIHUUHG WR VKDUH FDSLWDO :KHQ
WKH VKDUH RSWLRQV H[SLUH WKH DPRXQW IURP WKH VKDUH RSWLRQ UHVHUYH LV WUDQVIHUUHG WR UHWDLQHG HDUQLQJV
Equity settled share-based transaction
$W DQ ([WUDRUGLQDU\ *HQHUDO 0HHWLQJ KHOG RQ  0DUFK  WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VKDUHKROGHUV DSSURYHG WKH
HVWDEOLVKPHQW RI DQ (PSOR\HHVȇ 6KDUH 2SWLRQ 6FKHPH (626 RI QRW PRUH WKDQ  RI WKH LVVXHG DQG SDLGXS
RUGLQDU\ VKDUH FDSLWDO RI WKH &RPSDQ\ WR HOLJLEOH 'LUHFWRUV DQG HPSOR\HHV RI WKH *URXS
7KH WHUPV DQG FRQGLWLRQV UHODWLQJ WR WKH JUDQWV RI QHZ VKDUH RSWLRQ SURJUDPPH DUH DV IROORZV DOO RSWLRQV DUH
WR EH VHWWOHG E\ SK\VLFDO GHOLYHU\ RI VKDUHV
Grant date Number of
options (’000)
Vesting conditions Contractual
life of options
 0DUFK   0DOD\VLDQ HPSOR\HHV
9HVW RYHU  \HDUV
Australian employees
 RI WKH RSWLRQV IRU ILUVW DQG VHFRQG FDOHQGDU \HDU
 RI WKH RSWLRQV LVVXHG IRU WKLUG FDOHQGDU \HDU
 \HDUV
7KH QXPEHU DQG ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH H[HUFLVH SULFHV RI WKH VKDUH RSWLRQV DUH DV IROORZV
2023
Weighted
average
exercise
price (RM)
Number of
options
(‘000)
*UDQWHG GXULQJ WKH \HDU 1.35 33,380
/DSVHG GXULQJ WKH \HDU 1.35 (11,062)
([HUFLVHG GXULQJ WKH \HDU 1.35 (284)
2XWVWDQGLQJ DW  0DUFK 1.35 22,034
([HUFLVDEOH DW  0DUFK 7,027
7KH RSWLRQV RXWVWDQGLQJ DW  0DUFK  KDYH DQ H[HUFLVH SULFH RI 50 DQG D ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH FRQWUDFWXDO
OLIH RI  \HDUV
'XULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU  VKDUH RSWLRQV ZHUH H[HUFLVHG 7KH ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH VKDUH SULFH DW WKH GDWH
RI H[HUFLVH IRU WKH \HDU ZDV 50
232
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Fair value of share options and assumptions
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI VHUYLFHV UHFHLYHG LQ UHWXUQ IRU VKDUH RSWLRQV JUDQWHG LV EDVHG RQ WKH IDLU YDOXH RI VKDUH RSWLRQV
JUDQWHG PHDVXUHG EDVHG RQ D ELQRPLDO ODWWLFH PRGHO ZLWK WKH IROORZLQJ LQSXWV
ESOS
(21.3.2022)
)DLU YDOXH DW JUDQW GDWH 50
6KDUH SULFH DW JUDQW GDWH 50
([SHFWHG YRODWLOLW\ ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH YRODWLOLW\ 
2SWLRQ OLIH H[SHFWHG ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH OLIH  \HDUV
([SHFWHG GLYLGHQGV 
5LVNIUHH LQWHUHVW UDWH EDVHG RQ 0DOD\VLDQ *RYHUQPHQW 6HFXULWLHV 
Value of employee services received for issue of share options
2023
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
6KDUH RSWLRQV JUDQWHG LQ 
7RWDO H[SHQVH UHFRJQLVHG DV HTXLW\ VHWWOHG VKDUHEDVHG WUDQVDFWLRQV 3,722 764
16. DEFERRED INCOME
Group/Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
Government grant received
$W  $SULO 0DUFK 8,010,455 
Less: Amortisation
$W  $SULO (1,243,028) 
&KDUJH IRU WKH \HDU (270,697) 
$W  0DUFK (1,513,725) 
6,496,730 
Carrying amounts of government grant
1RQFXUUHQW 6,226,033 
&XUUHQW 270,697 
6,496,730 
7KH EDODQFHV FRQVLVW RI JRYHUQPHQW JUDQWV DV IROORZ
Ȃ )RU WKH SURMHFW RI UHKDELOLWDWLRQ DQG UHSODQWLQJ RI SDVWXUH DQG IRGGHU DW WKH IDUP LQ 0XDG]DP 6KDK 7KH
JUDQW LV EHLQJ DPRUWLVHG RYHU XVHIXO OLIH RI WKH SDGGRFN
Ȃ )RU WKH FRQVWUXFWLRQ RI WKH EXLOGLQJ DQG UHODWHG LQIUDVWUXFWXUH IRU PLON SURFHVVLQJ SODQW DW WKH SODQW LQ
0XDG]DP 6KDK 7KH JUDQW LV EHLQJ DPRUWLVHG RYHU XVHIXO OLIH RI WKH PLON SURFHVVLQJ SODQW DQG
Ȃ )RU WKH LPSOHPHQWDWLRQ RI 1DSLHU SURGXFWLRQ SURMHFWV DV D VXESURMHFW WR QDWLRQDO GDLU\ LQGXVWU\ GHYHORSPHQW
SURMHFW DW 0XDG]DP 6KDK 7KH JUDQW LV EHLQJ DPRUWLVHG RYHU XVHIXO OLIH RI WKH PLON SODQW
233
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Non-current
Unsecured
6XNXN 200,000,000  200,000,000 
Secured
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV 13,284,400  – –
Term loans 30,033,247  1,890,447 
243,317,647  201,890,447 
Current
Unsecured
6XNXN 2,486,795  2,486,795 
Secured
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV 6,898,567  – –
6KRUWWHUP ILQDQFLQJ 981,523  – –
Term loans 403,233  403,233 
%DQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV 67,404,151  3,585,520 –
5HYROYLQJ FUHGLWV 14,760,000 – 14,760,000 –
92,934,269  21,235,548 
336,251,916  223,125,995 
Security
$OO WKH WHUP ORDQV DQG UHYROYLQJ FUHGLWV DUH VHFXUHG E\
L *URXSȇV ODQG DQG EXLOGLQJV DQG ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV DV GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWHV  DQG  UHVSHFWLYHO\ DQG
LL &RUSRUDWH JXDUDQWHH E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG D VXEVLGLDU\
$OO WKH EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV DUH VHFXUHG E\ &RUSRUDWH JXDUDQWHH E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG D VXEVLGLDU\ DQG FHUWDLQ
EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV WRWDOLQJ WR 50  1Ζ/ DUH IXUWKHU VHFXUHG E\ MRLQWO\ DQG VHYHUDOO\ JXDUDQWHH
E\ FHUWDLQ 'LUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG D VXEVLGLDU\
Significant covenants
&HUWDLQ ERUURZLQJV DUH VXEMHFW WR WKH IROORZLQJ FRYHQDQWV
L 'HEWWRHTXLW\ UDWLR RI WKH *URXS VKDOO QRW H[FHHG  WLPHV
LL ([WHUQDO WRWDO ERUURZHG IXQGV DJDLQVW (%Ζ7'$ RI WKH *URXS VKDOO QRW H[FHHG  WLPHV
LLL 'HEWWRFDSLWDOLVDWLRQ UDWLR RI WKH $XVWUDOLDQȇV VXEVLGLDULHV VKDOO QRW H[FHHG  WLPHV
LY (%Ζ7'$ LQWHUHVW FRYHU UDWLR RI WKH $XVWUDOLDQȇV VXEVLGLDULHV VKDOO QRW OHVV WKDQ  WLPHV
Y 'HEWWRHTXLW\ UDWLR RI D VXEVLGLDU\ VKDOO QRW H[FHHG  WLPHV
234
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Sukuk
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ KDYH HVWDEOLVKHG D 6XNXN :DNDODK 3URJUDPPH Ȋ6XNXNȋ RI 50 ELOOLRQ LQ QRPLQDO
YDOXH RQ  0D\  SXUVXDQW WR ZKLFK LW KDV LVVXHG RQ  0D\  D 50 PLOOLRQ 6XNXN ZLWK D PDWXULW\
GDWH RI  0D\  DW D SURILW UDWH RI  SHU DQQXP DQG SD\DEOH VHPLDQQXDOO\
Hire purchase liabilities
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV DUH SD\DEOH DV IROORZV
Group
Future
minimum
lease
payments
RM
Interest
RM
Present
value of
minimum
lease
payments
RM
2023
/HVV WKDQ RQH \HDU 7,328,899 430,332 6,898,567
%HWZHHQ RQH DQG ILYH \HDUV 13,559,090 274,690 13,284,400
20,887,989 705,022 20,182,967
2022
/HVV WKDQ RQH \HDU   
%HWZHHQ RQH DQG ILYH \HDUV   
  
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Trade payables 24,427,865  3,603,212 
2WKHU SD\DEOHV 20,668,200  6,225,511 
$FFUXHG H[SHQVHV 18,211,788  6,058,105 
Due to Directors 834,060  – –
64,141,913  15,886,828 
ΖQ SULRU \HDU LQFOXGHG LQ WUDGH SD\DEOHV RI WKH *URXS DQG RI WKH &RPSDQ\ ZHUH DPRXQWV RI 50 GXH
WR D FRPSDQ\ LQ ZKLFK D GLUHFWRU FXP PLQRULW\ VKDUHKROGHU LQ D VXEVLGLDU\ KDV VXEVWDQWLDO ILQDQFLDO LQWHUHVWV
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV IXOO\ VHWWOHG WKH RXWVWDQGLQJ EDODQFHV LQ ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK 
7KH DPRXQWV GXH WR 'LUHFWRUV DUH QRQWUDGH LQ QDWXUH LQWHUHVW IUHH XQVHFXUHG DQG UHSD\DEOH RQ GHPDQG
235
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
19. REVENUE
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Revenue from contracts with customers
Ȃ 6DOHV RI JRRGV 621,606,857  285,978,369 
Ȃ 5HYHQXH IURP DJURWRXULVP 8,083,882 – – –
629,690,739  285,978,369 
19.1 Nature of goods and services
7KH IROORZLQJ LQIRUPDWLRQ UHIOHFWV WKH W\SLFDO WUDQVDFWLRQV RI WKH *URXS
Nature of goods or
services
Timing of recognition
or method used to
recognise revenue
Significant payment
terms
Variable elements in
consideration
0DQXIDFWXULQJ DQG
distribution of plant
EDVHG FRZȇV DQG
JRDWȇV PLON UHODWHG
SURGXFWV DQG RWKHU
EHYHUDJH SURGXFWV
5HYHQXH LV UHFRJQLVHG
ZKHQ WKH JRRGV DUH
GHOLYHUHG DQG DFFHSWHG
E\ WKH FXVWRPHUV
&UHGLW SHULRG UDQJLQJ
from 7 to 75 days
IURP LQYRLFH GDWH RU
PRQWKHQG GDWH
&DVK WHUP IRU FHUWDLQ
EHYHUDJH SURGXFWV
6DOHV LQFHQWLYHV DQG
RWKHU VDOHV UHODWHG
H[SHQVHV DUH JLYHQ WR
FXVWRPHUV ZKHUH WKH
customers meet sales
WDUJHW RU EDVHG RQ WKH
DJUHHG DGYHUWLVLQJ DQG
SURPRWLRQDO DFWLYLWLHV
5HYHQXH IURP
DJURWRXULVP
5HYHQXH LV UHFRJQLVHG
ZKHQ WKH JRRGV DUH
GHOLYHUHG DQG DFFHSWHG
E\ WKH FXVWRPHUV
&DVK WHUP Not applicable
7KH UHYHQXH IURP FRQWUDFWV ZLWK FXVWRPHUV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH QRW VXEMHFW WR YDULDEOH HOHPHQW LQ WKH
FRQVLGHUDWLRQ REOLJDWLRQ IRU UHWXUQV RU UHIXQGV DQG ZDUUDQW\
7KH &RPSDQ\ DSSOLHV WKH SUDFWLFDO H[SHGLHQWV IRU H[HPSWLRQ RQ GLVFORVXUH RI LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ UHPDLQLQJ
SHUIRUPDQFH REOLJDWLRQV WKDW KDYH RULJLQDO H[SHFWHG GXUDWLRQV RI RQH \HDU RU OHVV
7KH UHYHQXH JHQHUDWHG E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ LV SUHGRPLQDQWO\ IURP 0DOD\VLD
236
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
20. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
ΖQWHUHVW LQFRPH RQ QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ OHDVH 56,580  – –
2WKHU ILQDQFH LQFRPH 416,214  2,890,528 
472,794  2,890,528 
21. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
ΖQWHUHVW H[SHQVH RQ OHDVH OLDELOLWLHV 351,248  187,090 
2WKHU ILQDQFH FRVWV 11,588,102  8,656,015 
11,939,350  8,843,105 
/HVV $FFUXDO RI SURILWILQDQFH FRVWV (2,838,043)  (2,673,885) 
$GG 
$FFUXDO RI SURILWILQDQFH FRVWV
  EURXJKW IRUZDUG SDLG LQ FXUUHQW \HDU 2,486,795 – 2,486,795 –
11,588,102  8,656,015 
22. TAX EXPENSE/(CREDIT)
Recognised in profit or loss
0DMRU FRPSRQHQWV RI LQFRPH WD[ H[SHQVH LQFOXGH
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Current tax expense
Ȃ &XUUHQW \HDU 670,000  214,000 
– Prior years 271,159  143,058 
941,159  357,058 
Deferred tax expense/(income)
Ȃ 
2ULJLQDWLRQ DQG UHYHUVDO RI
temporary differences 1,445,631  764,000 
Ȃ 
2YHU8QGHU SURYLVLRQ LQ
prior years (146,827)  (28,000) 
1,298,804  736,000 
5HYHUVDO RI WD[  –  – –
2,239,963  1,093,058 
237
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
22. TAX EXPENSE/(CREDIT) (CONTINUED)
Group Company
Note
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Reconciliation of tax expense/
(credit)
3URILW EHIRUH WD[ 52,174  26,053 
ΖQFRPH WD[ FDOFXODWHG XVLQJ
0DOD\VLDQ WD[ UDWH RI  12,522  6,253 
1RQGHGXFWLEOH H[SHQVHV 1,486  232 
1RQWD[DEOH LQFRPH (911)  (893) 
7D[ LQFHQWLYH  (12,236)  (4,614) 
(IIHFW RI XQUHFRJQLVHG GHIHUUHG WD[
assets 1,001  – –
(IIHFW RI GLIIHUHQW WD[ UDWH LQ IRUHLJQ
MXULVGLFWLRQV 254  – –
2,116  978 
8QGHU2YHU SURYLVLRQ LQ SULRU
years
Ȃ &XUUHQW WD[ DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ 124  115 
Ȃ 5HYHUVDO RI WD[  –  – –
124  115 
7D[ H[SHQVHFUHGLW 2,240  1,093 
22.1 $V GLVFORVHG LQ 1RWH  D VXEVLGLDU\ KDV EHHQ JUDQWHG $JULFXOWXUDO 7D[ ΖQFHQWLYH IRU WKH UHDULQJ RI FRZV
JRDWV DQG PLON SURFHVVLQJ SURMHFWV :KLOH WKH VXEVLGLDU\ ILOHG LWV SULRU \HDUV WD[HV RQ WKH EDVLV WKDW LW
HQMR\HG IXOO WD[ LQFHQWLYH RQ LWV RSHUDWLRQ FHUWDLQ PLON SURFHVVLQJ SODQWV RI WKH VXEVLGLDU\ KDG QRW EHHQ
QRWLILHG WR WKH 0LQLVWU\ RI $JULFXOWXUH DQG )RRG ΖQGXVWULHV 0DOD\VLD DQG FRQVHTXHQWO\ QRW DGGHG DV
DSSURYHG ORFDWLRQV RQ D WLPHO\ EDVLV ΖQ WKH SUHSDUDWLRQ RI WKH DXGLWHG ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV IRU WKH \HDU
HQGHG  0DUFK  EDVHG RQ WKH UHVROXWLRQ ZLWK WKH ΖQODQG 5HYHQXH %RDUG ȊΖ5%ȋ DQ DGGLWLRQDO WD[
SD\DEOH DQG SHQDOW\ $GGLWLRQDO 7D[ $PRXQW RI 50 KDV EHHQ SURYLGHG LQ WKH DXGLWHG ILQDQFLDO
VWDWHPHQWV IRU WKH \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH QRQDSSURYHG ORFDWLRQV IRU WKH UHOHYDQW
\HDUV RI DVVHVVPHQW Ȋ<$ȋ IURP  WR 
)XUWKHU WKH 0LQLVWU\ RI )LQDQFH Ȋ02)ȋ KDV DSSURYHG WKH DSSOLFDWLRQ IRU LQFOXVLRQ RI WKH DGGLWLRQDO
ORFDWLRQV DV DSSURYHG ORFDWLRQV VWDUWLQJ IURP <$  RQZDUGV +HQFH WD[ ZDV DOVR SURYLGHG LQ UHVSHFW
RI WKHVH ORFDWLRQV IRU <$ LQ WKH DXGLWHG ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV IRU WKH \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK 
8SRQ D VXEVHTXHQW DSSOLFDWLRQ WR WKH 02) WKH VXEVLGLDU\ KDV UHFHLYHG DSSURYDO WKDW WKH DGGLWLRQDO
ORFDWLRQV DUH DSSURYHG IRU D QHZ 7D[ ΖQFHQWLYH XQGHU 6HFWLRQ  $ RI ΖQFRPH 7D[ $FW  8QGHU
WKH LQFHQWLYH WKH VXEVLGLDU\ LV DOORZHG WR FODLP LQFRPH WD[ H[HPSWLRQ RQ LWV VWDWXWRU\ LQFRPH DULVLQJ
IURP TXDOLI\LQJ SURMHFWV FRQGXFWHG LQ WKH DGGLWLRQDO ORFDWLRQV IRU   \HDUV FRPPHQFLQJ IURP <$

$FFRUGLQJO\ WKH WD[ SD\DEOH DPRXQW RI 50 IRU <$  SUHYLRXVO\ UHFRUGHG IRU LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO
\HDU HQGHG  0DUFK  LV UHYHUVHG LQ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU HQGHG  0DUFK 
238
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
23. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Profit for the year is arrived at
after charging/(crediting)
$XGLW IHHV
Ȃ .30* 3/7
Ȃ &XUUHQW \HDU 277,000  110,000 
Ȃ 8QGHU SURYLGHG LQ SULRU \HDU –  – 
Ȃ 2WKHU DXGLWRU 222,431  – –
1RQDXGLW IHHV
Ȃ .30* 3/7
Ȃ 5HYLHZ RI LQWHULP ILQDQFLDO
information 247,500 – 247,500 –
Ȃ 5HYLHZ RI 6WDWHPHQW RI 5LVN
0DQDJHPHQW DQG ΖQWHUQDO
&RQWURO 10,000  10,000 
Ȃ 5HSRUWLQJ $FFRXQWDQW IRU WKH
OLVWLQJ RQ 0DLQ 0DUNHW RI %XUVD
Securities –  – 
Ȃ
/RFDO DIILOLDWHV RI .30* 3/7
0DOD\VLD
Ȃ 7D[ VHUYLFHV DQG ILQDQFLDO GXH
GLOLJHQFH 314,000  20,000 
Ȃ 2WKHU DXGLWRU
Ȃ 7D[ VHUYLFHV 134,529 – – –
'HSUHFLDWLRQ DQG DPRUWLVDWLRQ
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 31,064,235  11,464,559 
Ȃ LQWDQJLEOH DVVHWV 234,995  14,157 
Ȃ ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV 1,928,178  149,721 
([SHQVHV UHODWLQJ WR VKRUWWHUP OHDVHV a 4,486,294  59,884 –
([SHQVHV UHODWLQJ WR OHDVHV RI
ORZYDOXH DVVHWV a 130,058  11,882 
ΖPSDLUPHQW ORVV5HYHUVDO RI
LPSDLUPHQW ORVV RQ
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW –  – –
Ȃ WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV 269,298  110,979 –
:ULWWHQ RII RI
Ȃ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 7,728  – –
Ȃ
REVROHWH DQG VORZPRYLQJ
LQYHQWRULHV (174,943)  (54,238) 
*DLQ RQ GLVSRVDO RI SURSHUW\ SODQW
DQG HTXLSPHQW (299,110)  – –
*DLQ IURP D EDUJDLQ SXUFKDVH (133,570) – – –
3HUVRQQHO H[SHQVHV LQFOXGLQJ NH\
PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO
– contribution to state plans 4,729,055  1,052,987 
Ȃ ZDJHV VDODULHV DQG RWKHUV 57,721,629  14,100,208 
Ȃ
HTXLW\ VHWWOHG VKDUHEDVHG
payment 3,653,064 – 763,840 –
239
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
23. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR (CONTINUED)
Group Company
Note
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
5HQWDO LQFRPH IURP VXEOHDVLQJ RI
property  (1,347,307)  – –
Rental concession income –  – 
Redundancy costs –  – –
Amortisation of deferred income (270,697)  (270,697) 
1HW IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH JDLQORVV (579,522)  54,043 
)DLU YDOXH JDLQORVV RI
Ȃ GHULYDWLYHV ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV 2,485,727  144,706 
Ȃ RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV (2,457,218)  (2,169,172) 
Distribution income from money
PDUNHW LQYHVWPHQWV (3,738,121)  (3,721,749) 
/RVV*DLQ DULVLQJ IURP FKDQJHV LQ IDLU
YDOXH RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV
Ȃ 0DOD\VLDQ )DUP 717,466  1,348,664 
– Australian Farm (827,768)  – –
Note a
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ OHDVH RIILFH DQG RIILFH HTXLSPHQW ZLWK FRQWUDFW WHUPV RI  WR  \HDUV 7KHVH
OHDVHV DUH VKRUWWHUP DQGRU OHDVHV RI ORZYDOXH LWHPV 7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ KDYH HOHFWHG QRW WR
UHFRJQLVH ULJKWRIXVH DVVHWV DQG OHDVH OLDELOLWLHV IRU WKHVH OHDVHV
24. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
7KH FDOFXODWLRQ RI EDVLF HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH DW  0DUFK  ZDV EDVHG RQ WKH SURILW DWWULEXWDEOH WR
RUGLQDU\ VKDUHKROGHUV DQG D ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV RXWVWDQGLQJ FDOFXODWHG DV IROORZV
2023
RM
2022
RM
3URILW IRU WKH \HDU DWWULEXWDEOH WR RZQHUV 50,079,503 
:HLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV DUH GHWHUPLQHG DV IROORZV
2023
RM
2022
RM
:HLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV 1,858,239,237 L
%DVLF HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH VHQ 2.69 
(i) Based on the weighted average number of issued share capital of 1,635,000,137 ordinary shares after the completion of Bonus Issue
but before the Public Issue and 1,857,954,837 ordinary shares after the completion of the Public Issue.
240
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
24. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE (CONTINUED)
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
7KH FDOFXODWLRQ RI GLOXWHG HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH DW  0DUFK  ZDV EDVHG RQ SURILW DWWULEXWDEOH WR
RUGLQDU\ VKDUHKROGHUV DQG WKH ZHLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV RXWVWDQGLQJ DIWHU DGMXVWPHQW IRU
WKH HIIHFWV RI DOO GLOXWLYH SRWHQWLDO RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV FDOFXODWHG DV IROORZV
2023
RM
2022
RM
3URILW IRU WKH \HDU DWWULEXWDEOH WR RZQHUV GLOXWHG 50,079,503 
2023
RM
2022
RM
:HLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV EDVLF 1,858,239,237 
(IIHFW RI VKDUH RSWLRQV LQ LVVXH 3,672,267 –
:HLJKWHG DYHUDJH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU\ VKDUHV GLOXWHG 1,861,911,504 
'LOXWHG HDUQLQJV SHU RUGLQDU\ VKDUH VHQ 2.69 
7KH DYHUDJH PDUNHW YDOXH RI WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VKDUHV IRU WKH SXUSRVH RI FDOFXODWLQJ WKH GLOXWLYH HIIHFW RI VKDUH
RSWLRQV ZDV EDVHG RQ WKH TXRWHG PDUNHW SULFHV IRU WKH SHULRG GXULQJ ZKLFK WKH RSWLRQV DUH RXWVWDQGLQJ
25. DIVIDEND
'LYLGHQGV UHFRJQLVHG E\ WKH *URXS&RPSDQ\ DUH
Sen per share
Total amount
RM’000
Date
of payment
2023
)LQDO  1.07 19,880 15 September 2022
$IWHU WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH IROORZLQJ GLYLGHQG ZDV SURSRVHG E\ WKH 'LUHFWRUV 7KLV GLYLGHQG ZLOO
EH UHFRJQLVHG LQ VXEVHTXHQW ILQDQFLDO SHULRG
Sen per share
RM
Total amount
RM’000
)LQDO GLYLGHQG  1.00 18,719
7KH ILQDO GLYLGHQG ZLOO EH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH VXEVHTXHQW ILQDQFLDO SHULRG XSRQ DSSURYDO E\ WKH VKDUHKROGHUV RI
WKH &RPSDQ\ DW WKH IRUWKFRPLQJ $QQXDO *HQHUDO 0HHWLQJ
241
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
26. OPERATING SEGMENTS
7KH *URXS KDV WZR UHSRUWDEOH VHJPHQWV DV GHVFULEHG EHORZ ZKLFK DUH WKH *URXSȇV VWUDWHJLF EXVLQHVV XQLWV
7KH VWUDWHJLF EXVLQHVV XQLWV DUH LQ GLIIHUHQW JHRJUDSKLHV DQG DUH PDQDJHG VHSDUDWHO\ EHFDXVH WKH\ UHTXLUH
GLIIHUHQW PDUNHWLQJ VWUDWHJLHV )RU HDFK RI WKH VWUDWHJLF EXVLQHVV XQLWV WKH &KLHI 2SHUDWLQJ 'HFLVLRQ 0DNHU
Ȋ&2'0ȋ LH WKH *URXSȇV 0DQDJLQJ 'LUHFWRU DQG *URXS &KLHI ([HFXWLYH 2IILFHU UHYLHZV LQWHUQDO PDQDJHPHQW
UHSRUWV DW OHDVW RQ D TXDUWHUO\ EDVLV 7KH IROORZLQJ VXPPDU\ GHVFULEHV WKH RSHUDWLRQV LQ HDFK RI WKH *URXSȇV
UHSRUWDEOH VHJPHQWV
• 0DOD\VLDȇV RSHUDWLRQ ΖQFOXGHV UHDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV DQG JRDWV DQG SURGXFWLRQ PDUNHWLQJ DQG VDOH RI
FRZȇV DQG JRDWȇV PLON \RJXUW DQG SODQWEDVHG SURGXFWV DQG DJURWRXULVP
• $XVWUDOLDȇV RSHUDWLRQ ΖQFOXGHV UHDULQJ RI GDLU\ FRZV SURGXFWLRQ DQG PDUNHWLQJ DQG VDOH RI FRZȇV PLON
MDP VDXFHV EXWWHU DQG \RJXUW
3HUIRUPDQFH LV PHDVXUHG EDVHG RQ VHJPHQW SURILW RU ORVV EHIRUH WD[ ILQDQFH LQFRPH ILQDQFH FRVWV GHSUHFLDWLRQ
DQG DPRUWLVDWLRQ DV LQFOXGHG LQ WKH LQWHUQDO PDQDJHPHQW UHSRUWV WKDW DUH UHYLHZHG E\ &2'0 6HJPHQW SURILW
LV XVHG WR PHDVXUH SHUIRUPDQFH DV PDQDJHPHQW EHOLHYHV WKDW VXFK LQIRUPDWLRQ LV WKH PRVW UHOHYDQW LQ HYDOXDWLQJ
WKH UHVXOWV RI FHUWDLQ VHJPHQWV UHODWLYH WR RWKHU HQWLWLHV WKDW RSHUDWH ZLWKLQ WKHVH LQGXVWULHV
6HJPHQW DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV LQIRUPDWLRQ LV QHLWKHU LQFOXGHG LQ WKH LQWHUQDO PDQDJHPHQW UHSRUWV QRU SURYLGHG
UHJXODUO\ WR WKH *URXS 0DQDJLQJ 'LUHFWRU +HQFH QR GLVFORVXUH LV PDGH RQ VHJPHQW DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV
Malaysia's
operation
RM’000
Australia's
operation
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
Segment profit/(loss) 56,372 (4,198) 52,174
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
5HYHQXH IURP H[WHUQDO FXVWRPHUV 537,930 91,761 629,691
Depreciation and amortisation (25,043) (8,184) (33,227)
Finance costs (9,527) (2,412) (11,939)
Finance income 281 192 473
Information provided to Group Managing Director
$GGLWLRQV WR QRQFXUUHQW DVVHWV RWKHU WKDQ ILQDQFLDO
LQVWUXPHQWV DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV 123,509 31,196 154,705
2022
Segment profit/(loss)   
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
5HYHQXH IURP H[WHUQDO FXVWRPHUV   
Depreciation and amortisation   
ΖPSDLUPHQW ORVV RQ SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW –  
Redundancy costs –  
Finance costs   
Finance income   
Information provided to Group Managing Director
$GGLWLRQV WR QRQFXUUHQW DVVHWV RWKHU WKDQ ILQDQFLDO
LQVWUXPHQWV DQG GHIHUUHG WD[ DVVHWV   
242
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
26. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
ΖQ SUHVHQWLQJ LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ WKH EDVLV RI JHRJUDSKLFDO VHJPHQWV VHJPHQW UHYHQXH LV EDVHG RQ JHRJUDSKLFDO
ORFDWLRQ RI FXVWRPHUV
Revenue
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
0DOD\VLD 517,913 
Australia 91,761 
6LQJDSRUH 19,320 
Brunei 697 
Total 629,691 
Major customers
7KHUH LV QR LQGLYLGXDO FXVWRPHU ZLWK UHYHQXH HTXDO WR RU PRUH WKDQ  RI WKH *URXSȇV WRWDO UHYHQXH GXULQJ
WKH \HDU
7KH IROORZLQJ LV WKH PDMRU FXVWRPHU ZLWK UHYHQXH HTXDO WR RU PRUH WKDQ  RI WKH *URXSȇV WRWDO UHYHQXH LQ
SULRU \HDU
Revenue RM’000 Segment
2022
&XVWRPHU $  0DOD\VLDȇV RSHUDWLRQ
243
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
27.1 Categories of financial instruments
7KH WDEOH EHORZ SURYLGHV DQ DQDO\VLV RI ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV RI WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ FDWHJRULVHG
DV IROORZV
D $PRUWLVHG FRVW Ȋ$&ȋ
E )DLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV Ȋ)973/ȋ
Ȃ 0DQGDWRULO\ UHTXLUHG E\ 0)56 
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2023
Financial assets
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV H[FOXGLQJ SUHSD\PHQWV
DQG DGYDQFH SD\PHQW 111,945 111,945 –
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 22,970 22,970 –
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV 685 – 685
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV 155,790 – 155,790
291,390 134,915 156,475
Financial liabilities
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV (336,252) (336,252) –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (64,142) (64,142) –
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV (1,695) – (1,695)
(402,089) (400,394) (1,695)
2022
Financial assets
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV H[FOXGLQJ SUHSD\PHQWV
DQG DGYDQFH SD\PHQW   –
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV   –
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV  – 
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV  – 
  
Financial liabilities
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV   –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV   –
  –
244
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2023
Financial assets
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV H[FOXGLQJ SUHSD\PHQWV
DQG DGYDQFH SD\PHQW 36,288 36,288 –
Due from subsidiaries 197,057 197,057 –
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 6,851 6,851 –
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV 144,999 – 144,999
385,195 240,196 144,999
Financial liabilities
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV (223,126) (223,126) –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (15,887) (15,887) –
Due to subsidiaries (53,070) (53,070) –
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV (142) – (142)
(292,225) (292,083) (142)
2022
Financial assets
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV H[FOXGLQJ SUHSD\PHQWV
DQG DGYDQFH SD\PHQW   –
Due from subsidiaries   –
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV   –
'HULYDWLYH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV  – 
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV  – 
  
Financial liabilities
/RDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV   –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV   –
Due to subsidiaries   –
  –
245
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
1HW JDLQVORVVHV RQ
)LQDQFLDO DVVHWV DW IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK
profit or loss
Ȃ 0DQGDWRULO\ UHTXLUHG E\ 0)56  6,187,392  5,890,921 
)LQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV DW IDLU YDOXH
WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV
Ȃ 0DQGDWRULO\ UHTXLUHG E\ 0)56  (2,477,780) – (144,706) –
Financial assets at amortised cost 691,604  2,778,799 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (11,489,491)  (8,710,058) 
(7,088,275)  (185,044) 
27.3 Financial risk management
7KH *URXS KDV H[SRVXUH WR WKH IROORZLQJ ULVNV IURP LWV ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV
• &UHGLW ULVN
• /LTXLGLW\ ULVN
• 0DUNHW ULVN
27.4 Credit risk
&UHGLW ULVN LV WKH ULVN RI D ILQDQFLDO ORVV LI D FXVWRPHU RU FRXQWHUSDUW\ WR D ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQW IDLOV WR
PHHW LWV FRQWUDFWXDO REOLJDWLRQV 7KH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN DULVHV SULQFLSDOO\
IURP LWV UHFHLYDEOHV IURP FXVWRPHUV ΖQ DGGLWLRQ WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN DULVLQJ IURP
DGYDQFHV WR VXEVLGLDULHV DQG ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV JLYHQ WR EDQNV IRU FUHGLW IDFLOLWLHV JUDQWHG WR VXEVLGLDULHV
7KHUH DUH QR VLJQLILFDQW FKDQJHV DV FRPSDUHG WR SULRU SHULRG
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
0DQDJHPHQW KDV D FUHGLW SROLF\ LQ SODFH DQG WKH H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN LV PRQLWRUHG RQ DQ RQJRLQJ
EDVLV &UHGLW HYDOXDWLRQV DUH SHUIRUPHG RQ FXVWRPHUV UHTXLULQJ FUHGLW RYHU D FHUWDLQ DPRXQW
$W HDFK UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DVVHVV ZKHWKHU DQ\ RI WKH WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV DUH
FUHGLW LPSDLUHG
7KH JURVV FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV RI FUHGLW LPSDLUHG WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV DUH ZULWWHQ RII HLWKHU SDUWLDOO\ RU IXOO
ZKHQ WKHUH LV QR UHDOLVWLF SURVSHFW RI UHFRYHU\ 7KLV LV JHQHUDOO\ WKH FDVH ZKHQ WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\
GHWHUPLQHV WKDW WKH GHEWRU GRHV QRW KDYH DVVHWV RU VRXUFHV RI LQFRPH WKDW FRXOG JHQHUDWH VXIILFLHQW
FDVK IORZV WR UHSD\ WKH DPRXQWV VXEMHFW WR WKH ZULWHRII 1HYHUWKHOHVV WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV WKDW DUH ZULWWHQ
RII FRXOG VWLOO EH VXEMHFW WR HQIRUFHPHQW DFWLYLWLHV
7KHUH DUH QR VLJQLILFDQW FKDQJHV DV FRPSDUHG WR SULRU SHULRG
246
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKHUH ZDV QR VLJQLILFDQW FRQFHQWUDWLRQV RI FUHGLW ULVN DQG PD[LPXP
H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN DULVLQJ IURP WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV DPRXQWV GXH IURP VXEVLGLDULHV DUH UHSUHVHQWHG E\
WKH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQWV RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
ΖQ PDQDJLQJ FUHGLW ULVN RI WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV WKH *URXS PDLQWDLQV VHSDUDWH DJHLQJ DQDO\VLV LQ UHVSHFW RI
WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV
7KH PDQDJHPHQW KDV WDNHQ UHDVRQDEOH VWHSV WR HQVXUH WKDW UHFHLYDEOHV WKDW DUH QHLWKHU SDVW GXH QRU
LPSDLUHG DUH PHDVXUHG DW WKHLU UHDOLVDEOH YDOXHV $ VLJQLILFDQW SRUWLRQ RI WKHVH UHFHLYDEOHV DUH UHJXODU
FXVWRPHUV WKDW KDYH EHHQ WUDQVDFWLQJ ZLWK WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ 7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\
XVH DJHLQJ DQDO\VLV WR PRQLWRU WKH FUHGLW TXDOLW\ RI WKH UHFHLYDEOHV 7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ JUDQW
FUHGLW SHULRG UDQJLQJ IURP  WR  GD\V IURP LQYRLFH GDWH RU PRQWKHQG GDWH +HQFH DQ\ UHFHLYDEOHV
KDYLQJ VLJQLILFDQW EDODQFHV SDVW GXH PRUH WKDQ  GD\V VKDOO EH FRQVLGHUHG DV FUHGLW LPSDLUHG DQG
PRQLWRUHG LQGLYLGXDOO\
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ XVH DQ DOORZDQFH PDWUL[ WR PHDVXUH H[SHFWHG FUHGLW ORVVHV Ȋ(&/Vȋ RI WUDGH
UHFHLYDEOHV
/RVV UDWHV DUH FDOFXODWHG XVLQJ D ȆUROO UDWHȇ PHWKRG EDVHG RQ WKH SUREDELOLW\ RI D UHFHLYDEOH SURJUHVVLQJ
WKURXJK VXFFHVVLYH VWDJHV RI GHOLQTXHQF\ WR  GD\V SDVW GXH
/RVV UDWHV DUH EDVHG RQ DFWXDO FUHGLW ORVV H[SHULHQFH RYHU WKH SDVW WKUHH \HDUV 7KH *URXS DQG WKH
&RPSDQ\ DOVR FRQVLGHU GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ D HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV GXULQJ WKH SHULRG RYHU ZKLFK WKH
KLVWRULF GDWD KDV EHHQ FROOHFWHG E FXUUHQW FRQGLWLRQV DQG F WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV YLHZ RI
HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV RYHU WKH H[SHFWHG OLYHV RI WKH UHFHLYDEOHV 1HYHUWKHOHVV WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\
EHOLHYH WKDW WKHVH IDFWRUV DUH LPPDWHULDO IRU WKH SXUSRVH RI LPSDLUPHQW FDOFXODWLRQ IRU WKH \HDU
7KH IROORZLQJ WDEOH SURYLGHV LQIRUPDWLRQ DERXW WKH H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN DQG (&/V IRU WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV
DV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG ZKLFK DUH JURXSHG WRJHWKHU DV WKH\ DUH H[SHFWHG WR KDYH VLPLODU
ULVN QDWXUH
247
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Loss
allowance
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
2023
&XUUHQW QRW SDVW GXH 65,623 – 65,623
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 21,227 – 21,227
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 9,293 – 9,293
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 3,663 – 3,663
0RUH WKDQ  GD\V SDVW GXH 2,230 72 2,158
102,036 72 101,964
Credit impaired
ΖQGLYLGXDOO\ LPSDLUHG 584 584 –
102,620 656 101,964
2022
&XUUHQW QRW SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
0RUH WKDQ  GD\V SDVW GXH   
  
Credit impaired
ΖQGLYLGXDOO\ LPSDLUHG   –
  
248
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Company
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Loss
allowance
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
2023
&XUUHQW QRW SDVW GXH 18,490 – 18,490
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 7,404 – 7,404
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 2,972 – 2,972
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH 1,581 – 1,581
0RUH WKDQ  GD\V SDVW GXH 1,508 – 1,508
31,955 – 31,955
Credit impaired
ΖQGLYLGXDOO\ LPSDLUHG 111 111 –
32,066 111 31,955
2022
&XUUHQW QRW SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
 Ȃ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
0RUH WKDQ  GD\V SDVW GXH  – 
 – 
7KH PRYHPHQWV LQ WKH DOORZDQFH IRU LPSDLUPHQW LQ UHVSHFW RI WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV GXULQJ WKH \HDU DUH VKRZQ
EHORZ
Group
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Credit
impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
$W  $SULO    
1HW UHPHDVXUHPHQW RI ORVV DOORZDQFH –  
Written off –  
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFHV –  
$W  0DUFK  $SULO  181 1 182
$FTXLVLWLRQ RI D VXEVLGLDU\ – 333 333
1HW UHPHDVXUHPHQW RI ORVV DOORZDQFH (109) 378 269
Written off – (63) (63)
([FKDQJH GLIIHUHQFHV – (65) (65)
$W  0DUFK  72 584 656
249
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
Company
Credit
impaired
RM’000
$W  $SULO  –
1HW UHPHDVXUHPHQW RI ORVV DOORZDQFH 111
$W  0DUFK  111
Cash and cash equivalents
7KH FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV DUH KHOG ZLWK EDQNV DQG ILQDQFLDO LQVWLWXWLRQV $V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ
SHULRG WKH PD[LPXP H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN LV UHSUHVHQWHG E\ WKHLU FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW
RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
7KHVH EDQNV DQG ILQDQFLDO LQVWLWXWLRQV KDYH ORZ FUHGLW ULVNV ΖQ DGGLWLRQ VRPH RI WKH EDQN EDODQFHV DUH
LQVXUHG E\ JRYHUQPHQW DJHQFLHV &RQVHTXHQWO\ WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH RI WKH YLHZ WKDW WKH
ORVV DOORZDQFH LV QRW PDWHULDO DQG KHQFH LW LV QRW SURYLGHG IRU
Other receivables
&UHGLW ULVNV RQ RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV LQFOXGH WKH GHSRVLWV SDLG WR VXSSOLHUV DQG IRU XWLOLWLHV 7KH *URXS DQG
WKH &RPSDQ\ PRQLWRU WKH H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN RQ LQGLYLGXDO EDVLV
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH PD[LPXP H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN LV UHSUHVHQWHG E\ WKHLU
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ 7KHUH LV QR KLVWRU\ RI GHIDXOW RQ RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV
DQG WKHUH LV QR LQGLFDWRU WKHVH RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV PD\ GHIDXOW 7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DOVR FRQVLGHU
GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ D HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV GXULQJ WKH SHULRG RYHU ZKLFK WKH KLVWRULF GDWD KDV EHHQ
FROOHFWHG E FXUUHQW FRQGLWLRQV DQG F WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV YLHZ RI HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV RYHU
WKH H[SHFWHG OLYHV RI WKH UHFHLYDEOHV 1HYHUWKHOHVV WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH RI WKH YLHZ WKDW WKH
ORVV DOORZDQFH LV QRW PDWHULDO DQG KHQFH LW LV QRW SURYLGHG IRU
250
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
7KH &RPSDQ\ SURYLGHV XQVHFXUHG ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV WR EDQNV LQ UHVSHFW RI EDQNLQJ IDFLOLWLHV JUDQWHG
WR FHUWDLQ VXEVLGLDULHV 7KH &RPSDQ\ PRQLWRUV RQ DQ RQJRLQJ EDVLV WKH UHVXOWV RI WKH VXEVLGLDULHV DQG
UHSD\PHQWV PDGH E\ WKH VXEVLGLDULHV
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
7KH PD[LPXP H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN DPRXQWV WR 50  50 UHSUHVHQWLQJ WKH
RXWVWDQGLQJ EDQNLQJ IDFLOLWLHV RI D VXEVLGLDU\ DV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKHUH ZDV QR LQGLFDWLRQ WKDW WKH VXEVLGLDU\ ZRXOG GHIDXOW RQ
UHSD\PHQW
7KH ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV KDYH QRW EHHQ UHFRJQLVHG VLQFH WKH IDLU YDOXH RQ LQLWLDO UHFRJQLWLRQ ZDV QRW
PDWHULDO
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
7KH &RPSDQ\ DVVXPHV WKDW WKHUH LV D VLJQLILFDQW LQFUHDVH LQ FUHGLW ULVN ZKHQ VXEVLGLDULHVȇ ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
GHWHULRUDWHV VLJQLILFDQWO\ 7KH &RPSDQ\ FRQVLGHUV D ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHH WR EH FUHGLW LPSDLUHG ZKHQ WKH
VXEVLGLDULHV DUH XQOLNHO\ WR UHSD\ WKHLU FUHGLW REOLJDWLRQ WR WKH EDQN LQ IXOO
7KH &RPSDQ\ GHWHUPLQHV WKH SUREDELOLW\ RI GHIDXOW RI WKH JXDUDQWHHG ORDQV LQGLYLGXDOO\ XVLQJ LQWHUQDO
LQIRUPDWLRQ DYDLODEOH
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH &RPSDQ\ GRHV QRW UHFRJQLVH DQ\ DOORZDQFH DV WKH\ DUH
FDWHJRULVHG DV ORZ ULVN
Inter-company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
7KH &RPSDQ\ WUDGHV DQG SURYLGHV XQVHFXUHG DGYDQFHV WR VXEVLGLDULHV 7KH DGYDQFHV DUH UHSD\DEOH RQ
GHPDQG H[FHSW IRU DGYDQFHV RI 50  50 VXEMHFW WR DQ LQWHUHVW RI 
  SHU DQQXP RQ WKH PRQWKO\ RXWVWDQGLQJ EDODQFHV 7KH &RPSDQ\ PRQLWRUV WKH UHVXOWV RI
WKH VXEVLGLDULHV UHJXODUO\
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH PD[LPXP H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN LV UHSUHVHQWHG E\ WKHLU
FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
251
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Inter-company balances (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
7KH &RPSDQ\ FRQVLGHUV DPRXQWV GXH IURP VXEVLGLDULHV KDYH ORZ FUHGLW ULVN 7KH &RPSDQ\ DVVXPHV WKDW
WKHUH LV D VLJQLILFDQW LQFUHDVH LQ FUHGLW ULVN ZKHQ WKH VXEVLGLDULHVȇ ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ GHWHULRUDWHV VLJQLILFDQWO\
7KH &RPSDQ\ FRQVLGHUV DPRXQWV GXH IURP VXEVLGLDULHV WR EH FUHGLW LPSDLUHG ZKHQ WKH VXEVLGLDULHV DUH
XQOLNHO\ WR UHSD\ LWV DPRXQW GXH WR WKH &RPSDQ\ LQ IXOO
$V DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH &RPSDQ\ GRHV QRW UHFRJQLVH DQ\ ORVV DOORZDQFH DV WKH\ DUH
FDWHJRULVHG XQGHU ORZ ULVN
Net investment in a lease
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
7KH *URXS PDQDJHV FUHGLW ULVN RQ QHW LQYHVWPHQW LQ D OHDVH WRJHWKHU ZLWK LWV OHDVLQJ DUUDQJHPHQWV
$W WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKH PD[LPXP H[SRVXUH WR FUHGLW ULVN LV UHSUHVHQWHG E\ WKHLU FDUU\LQJ
DPRXQWV LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
7KHUH LV QR KLVWRU\ RI GHIDXOW RQ WKH LQYHVWPHQW LQ OHDVH DQG WKHUH LV QR LQGLFDWRU WKLV OHDVH PD\ GHIDXOW
7KH *URXS DOVR FRQVLGHUV GLIIHUHQFHV EHWZHHQ D HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV GXULQJ WKH SHULRG RYHU ZKLFK WKH
KLVWRULF GDWD KDV EHHQ FROOHFWHG E FXUUHQW FRQGLWLRQV DQG F WKH *URXSȇV YLHZ RI HFRQRPLF FRQGLWLRQV
RYHU WKH H[SHFWHG OLYHV RI WKH UHFHLYDEOHV 1HYHUWKHOHVV WKH *URXS LV RI WKH YLHZ WKDW WKH ORVV DOORZDQFH
LV QRW PDWHULDO DQG KHQFH LW LV QRW SURYLGHG IRU
27.5 Liquidity risk
/LTXLGLW\ ULVN LV WKH ULVN WKDW WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ ZLOO QRW EH DEOH WR PHHW LWV ILQDQFLDO REOLJDWLRQV
DV WKH\ IDOO GXH 7KH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV H[SRVXUH WR OLTXLGLW\ ULVN DULVHV SULQFLSDOO\ IURP LWV YDULRXV
SD\DEOHV ORDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ PDLQWDLQ D OHYHO RI FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV DQG EDQN IDFLOLWLHV GHHPHG
DGHTXDWH E\ WKH PDQDJHPHQW WR HQVXUH DV IDU DV SRVVLEOH WKDW LW ZLOO KDYH VXIILFLHQW OLTXLGLW\ WR PHHW
LWV OLDELOLWLHV ZKHQ WKH\ IDOO GXH
ΖW LV QRW H[SHFWHG WKDW WKH FDVK IORZV LQFOXGHG LQ WKH PDWXULW\ DQDO\VLV FRXOG RFFXU VLJQLILFDQWO\ HDUOLHU
RU DW VLJQLILFDQWO\ GLIIHUHQW DPRXQWV
252
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
7KH WDEOH EHORZ VXPPDULVHV WKH PDWXULW\ SURILOH RI WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV ILQDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV DQG
OHDVH OLDELOLWLHV DV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG EDVHG RQ XQGLVFRXQWHG FRQWUDFWXDO SD\PHQWV
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest rate/
coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6XNXN 202,487 3.72 226,009 7,420 7,460 211,129 –
6HFXUHG EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV 67,404 3.83 – 4.68 67,404 67,404 – – –
6HFXUHG KLUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV 20,183 1.96 – 5.67 20,888 7,329 6,687 6,872 –
Secured term loans 30,436 5.38 – 6.60 30,814 535 535 29,744 –
5HYROYLQJ FUHGLW 14,760 6.60 14,760 14,760 – – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV 64,142 – 64,142 64,142 – – –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV 10,417 3.90 – 5.00 14,243 2,710 2,277 2,283 6,973
6KRUWWHUP ILQDQFLQJ 982 – 982 982 – – –
410,811 439,242 165,282 16,959 250,028 6,973
Derivative financial liabilities
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV JURVV
VHWWOHG
Ȃ 2XWIORZ (1,695) – (55,126) (55,126) – – –
Ȃ ΖQIORZ – – 53,431 53,431 – – –
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS 685 – 685 685 – – –
409,801 438,232 164,272 16,959 250,028 6,973
2022
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6XNXN       –
6HFXUHG EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV   Ȃ    – – –
6HFXUHG KLUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV   Ȃ      –
Secured term loans   Ȃ      –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV  –   – – –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV   Ȃ      
6KRUWWHUP ILQDQFLQJ  –   – – –
     
Derivative financial liabilities
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV JURVV
VHWWOHG
Ȃ 2XWIORZ – –   – – –
Ȃ ΖQIORZ  –   – – –
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS  –   – – –
     
253
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest rate/
coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6XNXN 202,487 3.72 226,009 7,420 7,460 211,129 –
Due to subsidiaries 53,070 – 53,070 53,070 – – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV 15,887 – 15,887 15,887 – – –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV 4,003 5.00 7,388 258 234 728 6,168
6HFXUHG EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV 3,586 3.83 – 4.05 3,586 3,586 – – –
Secured term loans 2,294 6.60 2,671 535 535 1,601 –
5HYROYLQJ FUHGLW 14,760 6.60 14,760 14,760 – – –
)LQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHH – – 49,007 49,007 – – –
296,087 372,378 144,523 8,229 213,458 6,168
2022
Non-derivative financial liabilities
6XNXN       –
Due to subsidiaries  –   – – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV  –   – – –
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV       
Secured term loans      – –
)LQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHH – –   – – –
     
 
7KH GLVFORVXUH UHSUHVHQWV WKH PD[LPXP DPRXQW WKDW LV UHTXLUHG WR EH VHWWOHG LQ WKH HYHQW RI D GHIDXOW
DQG WKH OHQGHUV ZKHUH DSSOLFDEOH FDOO RQ WKH &RPSDQ\ WR SD\ IRU D VXEVLGLDU\
27.6 Market risk
0DUNHW ULVN LV WKH ULVN WKDW FKDQJHV LQ PDUNHW SULFHV VXFK DV IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH UDWHV LQWHUHVW UDWHV DQG
RWKHU SULFH ULVN WKDW ZLOO DIIHFW WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ RU FDVK IORZV
Currency risk
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH H[SRVHG WR IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ ULVN RQ VDOHV DQG SXUFKDVHV WKDW DUH
GHQRPLQDWHG LQ D FXUUHQF\ RWKHU WKDQ WKH UHVSHFWLYH IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RI WKH *URXS HQWLWLHV 7KH
FXUUHQFLHV JLYLQJ ULVH WR WKLV ULVN DUH SULPDULO\ 86 'ROODU Ȋ86'ȋ 6LQJDSRUH 'ROODU Ȋ6*'ȋ (XUR Ȋ(85ȋ
DQG $XVWUDOLDQ 'ROODU Ȋ$8'ȋ
254
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ XVH IRUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV IURP WLPH WR WLPH WR KHGJH LWV IRUHLJQ
FXUUHQF\ ULVN 0RVW RI WKH IRUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV KDYH PDWXULWLHV RI OHVV WKDQ RQH \HDU DIWHU WKH
HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG :KHUH QHFHVVDU\ WKH IRUZDUG FRQWUDFWV DUH UROOHG RYHU DW PDWXULW\ 7KH
*URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ HQWHUHG IRUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV ZLWK QRWLRQDO FRQWUDFW DPRXQW RI 50
 50 DQG 50  50 UHVSHFWLYHO\ LQ RUGHU WR PDQDJH WKH IRUHLJQ
FXUUHQF\ H[SRVXUHV
)RUHLJQ H[FKDQJH H[SRVXUHV LQ WUDQVDFWLRQDO FXUUHQFLHV RWKHU WKDQ WKH IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQF\ RI WKH *URXS
DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH NHSW WR DQ DFFHSWDEOH OHYHO
Exposure to foreign currency risk
7KH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV H[SRVXUH WR IRUHLJQ FXUUHQFLHV D FXUUHQF\ ZKLFK LV RWKHU WKDQ WKH
IXQFWLRQDO FXUUHQF\ RI *URXS HQWLWLHV ULVN EDVHG RQ FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV DV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ
SHULRG ZDV
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
AUD
RM’000
Group
2023
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 540 420 2 3
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 817 4,271 – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (471) (47) (76) –
886 4,644 (74) 3
2022
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV  55  
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV   – 
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV    
   
Company
2023
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 13 2 – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 631 201 – –
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (362) (21) (56) –
Due from a subsidiary – 178 – –
282 360 (56) –
2022
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV   – 
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV   – 
  – 
255
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
$    VWUHQJWKHQLQJ RI WKH 5LQJJLW 0DOD\VLD DJDLQVW WKH IROORZLQJ FXUUHQFLHV DW WKH HQG RI
WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG ZRXOG KDYH LQFUHDVHGGHFUHDVHG HTXLW\ DQG SRVWWD[ SURILW RU ORVV E\ WKH DPRXQWV
VKRZQ EHORZ 7KLV DQDO\VLV LV EDVHG RQ IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ H[FKDQJH UDWH YDULDQFHV WKDW WKH *URXS DQG WKH
&RPSDQ\ FRQVLGHUHG WR EH UHDVRQDEO\ SRVVLEOH DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG 7KLV DQDO\VLV DVVXPHV
WKDW DOO RWKHU YDULDEOHV LQ SDUWLFXODU LQWHUHVW UDWHV UHPDLQ FRQVWDQW DQG LJQRUHV DQ\ LPSDFW RI IRUHFDVWHG
VKDUHV DQG SXUFKDVHV
Profit or loss
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
USD (67)  (21) 
6*' (353)  (27) 
(85 6  4 –
AUD –  – 
$    ZHDNHQLQJ RI 5LQJJLW 0DOD\VLD DJDLQVW WKH DERYH FXUUHQFLHV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ
SHULRG ZRXOG KDYH KDG HTXDO EXW RSSRVLWH HIIHFW RQ WKH DERYH FXUUHQFLHV WR WKH DPRXQWV VKRZQ DERYH
RQ WKH EDVLV WKDW DOO RWKHU YDULDEOHV UHPDLQHG FRQVWDQW
Interest rate risk
7KH *URXSȇV DQG &RPSDQ\ȇV LQYHVWPHQWV LQ IL[HG UDWH GHSRVLWV DQG ERUURZLQJV DUH H[SRVHG WR D ULVN RI
FKDQJH LQ WKHLU IDLU YDOXH GXH WR FKDQJHV LQ LQWHUHVW UDWHV 7KH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV YDULDEOH UDWH
ERUURZLQJV DUH H[SRVHG WR D ULVN RI FKDQJH LQ FDVK IORZV GXH WR FKDQJHV LQ LQWHUHVW UDWHV
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
7KH *URXS KDV HQWHUHG LQWR LQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS ZLWK D QRWLRQDO FRQWUDFW DPRXQW RI 50 
50 LQ RUGHU WR DFKLHYH DQ DSSURSULDWH PL[ RI IL[HG DQG IORDWLQJ UDWH H[SRVXUH DW  0DUFK
 WKH VZDS PDWXUHV RYHU WKH QH[W ILYH \HDUV IROORZLQJ WKH PDWXULW\ RI D IL[HG UDWH EDQN ORDQ RI 
DQG KDV D IORDWLQJ VZDS UDWH RI $8' %DQN %LOO 6ZDS 5DWH Ȋ%%6<ȋ Ȃ  PRQWK
7KH *URXS GRHV QRW GHVLJQ WKH LQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS DV WKH KHGJH LQVWUXPHQW
256
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
7KH LQWHUHVW UDWH SURILOH RI WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV VLJQLILFDQW LQWHUHVWEHDULQJ ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV
DQG OHDVH OLDELOLWLHV EDVHG RQ FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV DV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG ZDV
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets 1,075  67,200 
Financial liabilities (277,599)  (206,072) 
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV (10,417)  (4,002) 
(286,941)  (142,874) 
Floating rate instruments
Financial liabilities (58,653)  (17,054) 
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ GR QRW DFFRXQW IRU DQ\ IL[HG UDWH ILQDQFLDO DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV DW IDLU
YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV 7KHUHIRUH D FKDQJH LQ LQWHUHVW UDWHV DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG
ZRXOG QRW DIIHFW SURILW RU ORVV
(b) Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
$ FKDQJH RI  EDVLV SRLQW ȊESȋ LQ LQWHUHVW UDWH DW WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG ZRXOG KDYH
GHFUHDVHG HTXLW\ DQG SRVWWD[ SURILW RU ORVV E\ WKH DPRXQWV VKRZQ EHORZ 7KLV DQDO\VLV DVVXPHV WKDW
DOO RWKHU YDULDEOHV LQ SDUWLFXODU IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF\ UDWHV UHPDLQ FRQVWDQW
Profit or loss
Group Company
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
2023
)ORDWLQJ UDWH LQVWUXPHQWV (446) 446 (130) 130
2022
)ORDWLQJ UDWH LQVWUXPHQWV    
257
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Other price risk
3ULFH ULVN DULVHV IURP WKH *URXSȇV DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV LQYHVWPHQWV PRQH\ PDUNHW IXQGV
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
0DQDJHPHQW RI WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ PRQLWRU WKH RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV RQ SRUWIROLR EDVLV
7KH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ LQYHVW LQ PRQH\ PDUNHW IXQGV ZKLFK VHHN WR LQYHVW LQ PRQH\ PDUNHW
LQVWUXPHQWV DQG GHSRVLW ZLWK OLFHQVHG ILQDQFLDO LQVWLWXWLRQ IRU UHDVRQDEOH UDWH RI UHWXUQ RQ LQFRPH ZKLOH
PDLQWDLQLQJ FDSLWDO VWDELOLW\
Price risk sensitivity analysis
Money market funds
7KH IXQG LV LQYHVWHG LQ PRQH\ PDUNHW LQVWUXPHQWV DQG GHSRVLWHG ZLWK OLFHQVHG ILQDQFLDO LQVWLWXWLRQ 7KH
QHW DVVHW YDOXH Ȋ1$9ȋ RI WKH PRQH\ PDUNHW PDLQO\ GHSHQGV RQ WKH SHUIRUPDQFH RI WKH ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV
ZKLFK LV DIIHFWHG E\ FKDQJHV LQ WKH PDUNHW LQWHUHVW UDWH
$W WKH HQG RI WKH UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG ZLWK DOO WKH YDULDEOHV KHOG FRQVWDQW D FKDQJH RI  EDVLV SRLQWV
ȊESȋ LQ WKH LQWHUHVW UDWH ZRXOG KDYH LQFUHDVHGGHFUHDVHG HTXLW\ IRU LQYHVWPHQWV FODVVLILHG DV SRVWWD[
SURILW RU ORVV IRU LQYHVWPHQW FODVVLILHG DV IDLU YDOXH WKURXJK SURILW RU ORVV E\ WKH DPRXQWV VKRZQ EHORZ
Profit or loss
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
2023
ES LQFUHDVH 1,558 1,450
ES GHFUHDVH (1,558) (1,450)
2022
ES LQFUHDVH  
ES GHFUHDVH  
258
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.7 Fair value information
7KH FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV RI FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV VKRUW WHUP UHFHLYDEOHV SD\DEOHV DQG VKRUW WHUP
ERUURZLQJV DSSUR[LPDWH IDLU YDOXHV GXH WR WKH UHODWLYHO\ VKRUW WHUP QDWXUH RI WKHVH ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV
7KH WDEOH EHORZ DQDO\VHV RWKHU ILQDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV FDUULHG DW IDLU YDOXH DQG WKRVH QRW FDUULHG DW IDLU
YDOXH IRU ZKLFK IDLU YDOXH LV GLVFORVHG WRJHWKHU ZLWK WKHLU IDLU YDOXHV DQG FDUU\LQJ DPRXQWV VKRZQ LQ WKH
VWDWHPHQWV RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
Group
Fair value
of financial
instruments
carried at
fair value
Level 2
RM’000
Fair value
of financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Level 3
RM’000
Total
fair value
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
2023
Financial assets
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS 685 – 685 685
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV 155,790 – 155,790 155,790
156,475 – 156,475 156,475
Financial liabilities
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV (1,695) – (1,695) (1,695)
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV – (19,204) (19,204) (20,183)
Term loans – (30,777) (30,777) (30,436)
6XNXN – (202,487) (202,487) (202,487)
(1,695) (252,468) (254,163) (254,801)
2022
Financial assets
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV  –  
ΖQWHUHVW UDWH VZDS  –  
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV  –  
 –  
Financial liabilities
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV –   
Term loans –   
6XNXN –   
–   
259
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.7 Fair value information (continued)
Company
Fair value
of financial
instruments
carried at
fair value
Level 2
RM’000
Fair value
of financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Level 3
RM’000
Total
fair value
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
2023
Financial assets
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV 144,999 – 144,999 144,999
Financial liabilities
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV (142) – (142) (142)
Term loans – (2,634) (2,634) (2,294)
6XNXN – (202,487) (202,487) (202,487)
(142) (205,121) (205,263) (204,923)
2022
Financial assets
)RUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV  –  
2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV  –  
 –  
Financial liabilities
Term loans –   
6XNXN –   
–   
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI IRUZDUG H[FKDQJH FRQWUDFWV DQG LQWHUHVW UDWH VZDSV DUH HVWLPDWHG E\ GLVFRXQWLQJ WKH
GLIIHUHQFH EHWZHHQ WKH FRQWUDFWXDO IRUZDUG SULFH DQG WKH FXUUHQW IRUZDUG SULFH IRU WKH UHVLGXDO PDWXULW\
RI WKH FRQWUDFW XVLQJ D ULVNIUHH LQWHUHVW UDWH EDVHG RQ JRYHUQPHQW ERQGV
Money market funds
7KH IDLU YDOXH RI PRQH\ PDUNHW IXQGV LV GHWHUPLQHG EDVHG RQ RWKHU GDWD YDOXHV RU PDUNHW SULFH
Level 3 fair value
7KH IROORZLQJ WDEOH VKRZV WKH YDOXDWLRQ WHFKQLTXHV XVHG LQ WKH GHWHUPLQDWLRQ RI IDLU YDOXHV ZLWKLQ /HYHO
 DV ZHOO DV WKH NH\ XQREVHUYDEOH LQSXWV XVHG LQ WKH YDOXDWLRQ PRGHOV
260
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.7 Fair value information (continued)
(a) Financial instruments not carried at fair value
Type Description of valuation technique and inputs used
7HUP ORDQV DQG KLUH SXUFKDVH
liabilities
'LVFRXQWHG FDVK IORZV XVLQJ D UDWH EDVHG RQ WKH FXUUHQW PDUNHW UDWH
RI ERUURZLQJ RI WKH UHVSHFWLYH *URXS HQWLWLHV DW WKH UHSRUWLQJ GDWH
28. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
&XUUHQW \HDUȇV DGGLWLRQ 117,834,286  24,507,269 
/HVV 
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW
  DFTXLUHG IURP KLUH SXUFKDVH
liabilities (6,228,742)  – –
/HVV 6KDUH EDVHG SD\PHQW FDSLWDOLVHG (93,539) – – –
111,512,005  24,507,269 
29. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
7KH *URXSȇV REMHFWLYHV ZKHQ PDQDJLQJ FDSLWDO LV WR PDLQWDLQ D VWURQJ FDSLWDO EDVH WR IXQG LWV JURZWK DQG
VDIHJXDUG WKH *URXSȇV DELOLW\ WR FRQWLQXH DV D JRLQJ FRQFHUQ 7KH *URXSȇV FDSLWDO LV UHSUHVHQWHG E\ LWV WRWDO
HTXLW\ LQ WKH VWDWHPHQW RI ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ
7KH 'LUHFWRUV PRQLWRU WKH DGHTXDF\ RI FDSLWDO RQ DQ RQJRLQJ EDVLV ZKLOVW PDLQWDLQLQJ RSWLPDO GHEWWRHTXLW\
UDWLR WKDW FRPSOLHV ZLWK GHEW FRYHQDQWV 7KH *URXS LV UHTXLUHG WR PDLQWDLQ D GHEWWRHTXLW\ UDWLR RI QRW PRUH
WKDQ  WLPHV LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH VSHFLILHG IRUPXODV DV VWDWHG LQ WKH UHVSHFWLYH IDFLOLW\ DJUHHPHQW DQG WUXVW
GHHG
7KH GHEWWRHTXLW\ UDWLRV DW  0DUFK  DQG  0DUFK  ZHUH DV IROORZV
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
7RWDO ORDQV DQG ERUURZLQJV 1RWH  336,252 
/HDVH OLDELOLWLHV 10,417 
/HVV &DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 1RWH  (22,970) 
Net debt 323,699 
7RWDO HTXLW\ LQFOXGLQJ 1&Ζ 635,902 
'HEWWRHTXLW\ UDWLR 0.51 
7KHUH ZHUH QR FKDQJHV LQ WKH *URXSȇV DSSURDFK WR FDSLWDO PDQDJHPHQW GXULQJ WKH ILQDQFLDO \HDU
261
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
30. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
Capital expenditure commitment
Property, plant and equipment
&RQWUDFWHG EXW QRW SURYLGHG IRU 22,242,517  10,904,690 
Intangible assets
&RQWUDFWHG EXW QRW SURYLGHG IRU 163,505  163,505 
22,406,022  11,068,195 
31. CONTINGENCIES
Contingent liabilities
Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
Secured:
&RUSRUDWH JXDUDQWHHV JLYHQ WR D ILQDQFLDO LQVWLWXWLRQ LQ UHVSHFW RI
RXWVWDQGLQJ EDQNHUVȇ DFFHSWDQFHV RI D VXEVLGLDU\ 49,006,631 
Contingent assets
2Q  0DUFK  WKH *URXS KDV ILOHG D OHJDO DFWLRQ LQ $XVWUDOLD DJDLQVW 6KHSSDUWRQ 3DUWQHUV &ROOHFWLYH *URXS
IRU YDULRXV PLVUHSUHVHQWDWLRQV WR 7KH +ROVWHLQ 0LON &RPSDQ\ $XVWUDOLD 3W\ /WG GXULQJ WKH FRXUVH RI GXH GLOLJHQFH
RI WKH EXVLQHVV DFTXLVLWLRQ
$V DW  0DUFK  WKH FDVH LV VWLOO RQJRLQJ DQG LQ WKH 'LUHFWRUVȇ RSLQLRQ GLVFORVXUH RI DQ\ IXUWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ
DERXW WKH DERYH PDWWHU ZRXOG EH SUHMXGLFLDO WR WKH LQWHUHVWV RI WKH *URXS
32. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
)RU WKH SXUSRVHV RI WKHVH ILQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV SDUWLHV DUH FRQVLGHUHG WR EH UHODWHG WR WKH *URXS RU WKH
&RPSDQ\ LI WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV WKH DELOLW\ GLUHFWO\ RU LQGLUHFWO\ WR FRQWURO RU MRLQWO\ FRQWURO WKH
SDUW\ RU H[HUFLVH VLJQLILFDQW LQIOXHQFH RYHU WKH SDUW\ LQ PDNLQJ ILQDQFLDO DQG RSHUDWLQJ GHFLVLRQV RU YLFH YHUVD
RU ZKHUH WKH *URXS RU WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG WKH SDUW\ DUH VXEMHFW WR FRPPRQ FRQWURO 5HODWHG SDUWLHV PD\ EH
LQGLYLGXDOV RU RWKHU HQWLWLHV
5HODWHG SDUWLHV DOVR LQFOXGH NH\ PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO GHILQHG DV WKRVH SHUVRQV KDYLQJ DXWKRULW\ DQG UHVSRQVLELOLW\
IRU SODQQLQJ GLUHFWLQJ DQG FRQWUROOLQJ WKH DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH *URXS HLWKHU GLUHFWO\ RU LQGLUHFWO\ DQG HQWLW\ WKDW
SURYLGHV NH\ PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO VHUYLFHV WR WKH *URXS 7KH NH\ PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO LQFOXGH DOO WKH
'LUHFWRUV RI WKH *URXS DQG FHUWDLQ PHPEHUV RI VHQLRU PDQDJHPHQW RI WKH *URXS
7KH *URXS KDV UHODWHG SDUW\ UHODWLRQVKLS ZLWK LWV VXEVLGLDULHV SHUVRQFRPSDQLHV FRQQHFWHG WR 'LUHFWRUV
VKDUHKROGHU DQG NH\ PDQDJHPHQW SHUVRQQHO
262
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
32. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Significant related party transactions
7KH VLJQLILFDQW UHODWHG SDUW\ WUDQVDFWLRQV RI WKH *URXS DQG WKH &RPSDQ\ DUH VKRZQ EHORZ 7KH EDODQFHV UHODWHG
WR WKH EHORZ WUDQVDFWLRQV DUH VKRZQ LQ 1RWHV   DQG 
Group Company
2023
RM
2022
RM
2023
RM
2022
RM
A. Subsidiaries
6DOHV RI UDZ PLON – – – 
6DOHV RI ILQLVKHG JRRGV – – 64,261,411 
6DOHV RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV – – 11,539,519 
6DOHV RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW – – 417,963 –
3XUFKDVH RI UDZ PDWHULDO – – – 
3XUFKDVH RI ILQLVKHG JRRGV – – (2,436,680) –
3XUFKDVH RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV – – – 
3XUFKDVH RI SURSHUW\ SODQW DQG
HTXLSPHQW – – (380,124) –
/RDQ WR VXEVLGLDULHV – – – 
/RDQ LQWHUHVW LQFRPH – – 2,775,360 
0DQDJHPHQW IHH LQFRPH – – 360,393 
B. Key management personnel
Directors
Fees 629,000  629,000 
Remuneration 1,086,821  – –
Other key management personnel
Remuneration 4,027,396  337,569 
C. Minority shareholder in a subsidiary
3XUFKDVH RI ELRORJLFDO DVVHWV DQG RWKHU
DQLPDO KHDOWK UHODWHG SURGXFWV 13,970,244  13,970,244 
D. Person connected to Directors
of a subsidiary
3XUFKDVH RI PRWRU YHKLFOHV –  – –
E. Companies connected to Directors
6KRUWWHUP OHDVH 12,000  – –
263
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
33. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES
St David Dairy Pty Ltd
2Q  $XJXVW  WKH *URXS KDG HQWHUHG LQWR D EXVLQHVV SXUFKDVH DJUHHPHQW ZLWK 0DJJLH %HHU +ROGLQJV
/WG WR DFTXLUH  HTXLW\ LQWHUHVW LQ 6W 'DYLG 'DLU\ 3W\ /WG DW D WRWDO SXUFKDVH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ RI 50 PLOOLRQ
YLD *RXOEXUQ 9DOOH\ &UHDPHU\ 3W\ /WG 7KH WUDQVDFWLRQ ZDV FRPSOHWHG RQ  $XJXVW 
7KH IROORZLQJ VXPPDULVH WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ SDLG DQG WKH UHFRJQLVHG DPRXQWV RI DVVHWV DFTXLUHG DQG OLDELOLWLHV
DVVXPHG DW WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ GDWH
Note
Group
RM
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 4,021,237
ΖQYHQWRULHV 797,142
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 255,779
7UDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV  2,389,904
Brand 235,972
7UDGH DQG RWKHU SD\DEOHV (2,833,399)
+LUH SXUFKDVH OLDELOLWLHV (1,355,363)
)DLU YDOXH RI LGHQWLILDEOH QHW DVVHWV
Total consideration transferred 3,511,272
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary
3XUFKDVH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ SDLG E\ WKH &RPSDQ\ 3,160,145
&DSLWDO FRQWULEXWHG E\ D PLQRULW\ VKDUHKROGHU 351,127
3XUFKDVH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ VHWWOHG LQ FDVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 3,511,272
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV DFTXLUHG (255,779)
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary 3,255,493
 ΖQFOXGHG LQ WUDGH DQG RWKHU UHFHLYDEOHV LV LPSDLUPHQW RI WUDGH UHFHLYDEOHV RI 50
264
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
33. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
The Provenance Creamery Pte Ltd
2Q  0D\  WKH &RPSDQ\ H[HUFLVHG WKH FDOO RSWLRQ LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH HQWLUH LVVXHG DQG SDLG XS VKDUH
FDSLWDO RI 7KH 3URYHQDQFH &UHDPHU\ 3WH /WG Ȋ3URYHQDQFH &UHDPHU\ȋ JUDQWHG E\ /RK 1JDW 0XL DW D FRQVLGHUDWLRQ
RI 6*' )ROORZLQJ WKH H[HUFLVH RI WKH FDOO RSWLRQ 3URYHQDQFH &UHDPHU\ EHFRPHV WKH &RPSDQ\ȇV ZKROO\
RZQHG VXEVLGLDU\
7KH IROORZLQJ VXPPDULVH WKH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ SDLG DQG WKH UHFRJQLVHG DPRXQWV RI DVVHWV DFTXLUHG DQG OLDELOLWLHV
DVVXPHG DW WKH FDOO RSWLRQ GDWH
Group
RM
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
3URSHUW\ SODQW DQG HTXLSPHQW 5,666
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV 17,074
2WKHU UHFHLYDEOHV 121,255
2WKHU SD\DEOHV (10,422)
)DLU YDOXH RI LGHQWLILDEOH QHW DVVHWV 133,573
Purchase consideration settled in cash and cash equivalents 
&DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV DFTXLUHG 
Net cash inflow arising from acquisition of a subsidiary 
Total consideration transferred 
)DLU YDOXH RI LGHQWLILDEOH QHW DVVHWV 
*DLQ RQ D EDUJDLQ SXUFKDVH 
265
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
8
8
34. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
D 2Q  0D\  WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV FRPSOHWHG WKH DFTXLVLWLRQ RI  HTXLW\ LQWHUHVW RI 7KH ΖQVLGH 6FRRS
6GQ %KG Ȋ7Ζ66%ȋ IRU D WRWDO FRQVLGHUDWLRQ RI 50 PLOOLRQ Ȋ$FTXLVLWLRQȋ
3XUVXDQW WR WKH $FTXLVLWLRQ WKH &RPSDQ\ KDV HQWHUHG LQWR D 6KDUHKROGHUV $JUHHPHQW Ȋ6+$ȋ ZLWK WKH 
VKDUHKROGHU RI 7Ζ66% (GPXQG 7DQ ZKLFK HQWDLOV WKH &RPSDQ\ JUDQWLQJ WR (GPXQG 7DQ WKH ULJKW WR UHTXLUH
))% WR SXUFKDVH IURP (GPXQG 7DQ XSRQ WKH RFFXUUHQFH RI DQ\ WULJJHULQJ HYHQWV DV VSHFLILHG LQ WKH 6+$
E 2Q  0D\  ))% KDV RIIHUHG  (PSOR\HHVȇ 6KDUH 2SWLRQ 6FKHPH (626 RSWLRQV WR HOLJLEOH
HPSOR\HHV RI WKH *URXS ZLWK WKH WHUPV DQG FRQGLWLRQV DV IROORZV
Grant date
Number of
options (’000)
Vesting
conditions
Contractual
life of options
 0D\   9HVW RYHU  \HDUV  \HDUV
F 2Q  -XQH  ))% KDV FRPSOHWHG LWV LVVXDQFH RI 50 PLOOLRQ LQ QRPLQDO YDOXH RI 6XNXN :DNDODK
Ȋ1HZ 6XNXN :DNDODKȋ XQGHU WKH 6XNXN :DNDODK 3URJUDPPH Ȋ6XNXNȋ RI 50 ELOOLRQ LQ QRPLQDO YDOXH
ZKLFK ZDV HVWDEOLVKHG RQ  0D\  7KH 1HZ 6XNXN :DNDODK KDV D WHQXUH RI ILYH \HDUV ZLWK D PDWXULW\
GDWH RI  -XQH  D SURILW UDWH RI  SHU DQQXP DQG SD\DEOH VHPLDQQXDOO\ 7KH SURFHHGV IURP
WKH 1HZ 6XNXN :DNDODK ZLOO EH XWLOLVHG WR ILQDQFH *URXSȇV FRUSRUDWH SXUSRVHV LQFOXGLQJ FDSLWDO H[SHQGLWXUH
DQG ZRUNLQJ FDSLWDO UHTXLUHPHQWV
266
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
F i n a n c i a l S t a t e m e n t s
Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
Issued Share Capital : 1,871,920,037
Class of Shares : Ordinary Share
Number of Holders : 18,014
Voting Right : 1 vote per Ordinary Share
Size of Holders
No. of
Holders
% of
Holders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
1 – 99 112 0.622 1,685 0.000
100 – 1,000 5,919 32.858 3,557,760 0.190
1001 – 10,000 9,519 52.842 40,991,103 2.190
10,001 – 100,000 2,084 11.569 57,300,700 3.061
100,001 and above 380 2.109 1,770,068,789 94.559
Total 18,014 100.000 1,871,920,037 100.000
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
Direct Indirect
Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. 571,011,515 30.504 – –
Farmchoice Foods Sdn. Bhd. 232,664,120 12.429 – –
Agrifood Resources Holdings Sdn. Bhd. 219,238,600 11.712 – –
Khazanah Nasional Berhad – – 219,238,600 11.712
Employees Provident Fund Board 131,726,900 7.037 – –
Loi Tuan Ee 4,022,800 0.215 803,675,635 42.933
Loi Foon Kion 2,672,600 0.143 571,011,515 30.504
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
Direct Indirect
Name of Directors
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Tan Sri Dato' Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk
Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas 500,000 0.027 – –
Loi Tuan Ee 4,022,800 0.215 803,675,635 42.933
Loi Foon Kion 2,672,600 0.143 571,011,515 30.504
Dato' Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.Hassan Nizam 500,000 0.027 – –
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 500,000 0.027 – –
Sukanta Kumar Dutt – – – –
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly – – – –
267
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 30 June 2023
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED
HOLDER)
No. Name of Holders Holdings %
1 RAINFOREST CAPITAL SDN. BHD. 571,011,515 30.504
2 FARMCHOICE FOODS SDN. BHD. 232,664,120 12.429
3 AGRIFOOD RESOURCES HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 219,238,600 11.712
4 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD 80,924,900 4.323
5 LEMBAGA TABUNG HAJI 61,500,000 3.285
6 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR AIA BHD. 46,007,000 2.457
7 AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA 40,000,000 2.136
8 MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CAHAYA BINTANG LTD 23,633,900 1.262
9 AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA 3 – DIDIK 22,204,180 1.186
10 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
URUSHARTA JAMAAH SDN. BHD. (2) 21,800,000 1.164
11 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PAMB FOR PRULINK EQUITY FUND 19,584,800 1.046
12 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERDEEN) 17,733,900 0.947
13 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR CITIBANK NEW YORK (NORGES BANK 14) 14,125,500 0.754
14 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD
FOR PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND 12,932,000 0.690
15 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) (ABERDEEN) 11,116,800 0.593
16 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (NOMURA) 11,000,000 0.587
17 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INTERNATIONAL PLC (FIRM A/C) 10,121,633 0.540
18 CSH NETWORK CAPITAL SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIU HAN MING 10,053,000 0.537
19 PERMODALAN NASIONAL BERHAD 10,000,000 0.534
20 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PBTB FOR TAKAFULINK DANA EKUITI 9,390,700 0.501
268
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 30 June 2023
No. Name of Holders Holdings %
21 CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR MERIT LTD. 9,000,000 0.480
22 IFAST NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
GLOBAL SUCCESS NETWORK SDN. BHD. 9,000,000 0.480
23 HONG LEONG ASSURANCE BERHAD
AS BENEFICIAL OWNER (LIFE PAR) 6,995,000 0.373
24 EDMUND TAN JUN HUA 6,579,000 0.351
25 WU CHUANG YANG, DERRICK 6,579,000 0.351
26 CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD
FOR KENANGA SHARIAH GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES FUND (50156 TR01) 6,120,000 0.326
27 DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DEUTSCHE TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD
FOR EASTSPRING INVESTMENTSSMALL-CAP FUND 5,810,600 0.310
28 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PAMB FOR PARTICIPATING FUND 5,763,200 0.307
29 TOKIO MARINE LIFE INSURANCE MALAYSIA BHD
AS BENEFICIAL OWNER (TMEF) 5,456,000 0.291
30 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERISLAMIC) 5,428,500 0.289
TOTAL 1,511,773,848 80.760
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS (CONT’D.)
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED
HOLDER)
269
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Ʉ/RFDWLRQ Description
Current
Use Tenure
Remaining
Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
Age of
Building
Approximate
Land Area
(sq.m.)
Net Book
Value
RM’000
11& 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
One single-storey
factory building and
two storey office
building
Processing facility
and Office
Leasehold
99 years
18 years
(expiring 23.10.2041)
36 years 3,836 3,246
14A, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
Single storey factory
building
Processing facility
and Warehouse
Leasehold
99 years
9 years
(expiring 12.06.2032)
45 years 5,666 1,809
Plot D, KM6, Muadzam Shah,
Jalan Muadzam – Rompin,
26700, Pahang Darul Makmur
Dairy farm, One
single-storey factory
building and two
storey office building
Farming,
Processing facility,
Warehouse and
Office
Leasehold
33 years
24 years
(expiring 04.04.2047)
5 years 4,472,550 19,366
PTD 2975, Batu 13,
Jalan Mersing,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
99 years
12 years
(expiring 04.01.2035)
– 1,905,890 8,569
PTD 1721, KM10,
Jalan Sedili Kecil,
Mukim Sedili Kecil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
30 years
25 years
(expiring 27.03.2048)
– 1,315,228 3,969
Lot 61314,
Bandar Baru Enstek,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan
Land Establishment of a
new manufacturing
hub
Freehold – – 32,590 19,027
315 Fidge Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 6,114,178 26,488
490 Neal Road & 515
Norton Road & 695
Norton Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 2,950,849 7,153
947 & 999 McEwan Road,
Kyabram, Victoria
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 1,204,900 9,980
85 McCormick Road,
Kyabram VIC 3620
Single storey factory
building
Processing facility,
Warehouse and
Office
Freehold – 3 years 69,978 28,421
270
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
List of Top 10 Properties
MALAYSIA
AUSTRALIA
MUADZAM SHAH, PAHANG
Plot D, KM6, Jalan Rompin,
26700 Muadzam Shah, Pahang
UPM SERDANG, SELANGOR
Ladang 16, Bahagian Ternakan,
Taman Pertanian Universiti,
Universiti Putra Malaysia,
43400 Serdang, Selangor
KYABRAM, VICTORIA
85 McCormick Road, Kyabram,
Victoria 3620
Tel : +61(0)3 5852 1111
GREATER SHEPPARTON, VICTORIA
315 Fidge Road, Undera,
Victoria 3629
LARKIN, JOHOR
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
Tel : +607 232 3463, +607 232 8771
Fax : +607 232 7622
DESARU, JOHOR
PTD 1721, KM 10,
Jalan Sedili Kechil,
Mukim Sedili Kechil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
MAWAI, JOHOR
PTD 2975,
Mukim Ulu Sungai Sedili Besar,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
TAIPING, PERAK
PT 12802,
Mukim Batu Kurau,
Pondok Tanjung,
34010 Daerah Larut Matang, Perak
FITZROY, VICTORIA
16-18 St David St, Fitzroy,
Victoria 3065
HQ Office and
Processing Facility
Legends:
Farm and
Processing Facility
Farm
Processing
Facility
271
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Group Corporate Directory
As at 30 June 2023
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE TWELFTH (12TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF FARM FRESH
BERHAD (“FFB”) WILL BE HELD ON A FULLY VIRTUAL MANNER THROUGH LIVE STREAMING AND ONLINE
REMOTE MEETING PLATFORM OF TIIH ONLINE PROVIDED BY TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE
SERVICES SDN BHD VIA ITS WEBSITE AT HTTPS://TIIH.ONLINE ON TUESDAY, 26 SEPTEMBER 2023 AT
3:00 P.M. FOR THE FOLLOWING PURPOSES:-
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 7RUHFHLYHWKH$XGLWHG)LQDQFLDO6WDWHPHQWVIRUWKHILQDQFLDO\HDUHQGHGb0DUFK
2023 and the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Please refer to Explanatory
Note (i)
2. To approve a final single-tier dividend of 1.00 sen per ordinary share in respect
of the financial year ended 31 March 2023.
Resolution 1
3. To re-elect the following Directors, each of whom is retiring by rotation in
accordance with Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible,
has offered themselves for re-election:-
(i) Mr. Loi Tuan Ee; and
(ii) Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas.
Resolution 2
Resolution 3
4. To approve the Directors fees of up to RM550,000.00 per annum to the Directors
for the period from the 1 April 2023 to the next AGM of the Company to be
held in 2024.
Resolution 4
5. To approve the payment of benefits of up to RM76,000.00 per annum to Non-
Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the period from 1 April
2023 to the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2024.
Resolution 5
6. To re-appoint Messrs. KPMG PLT as the External Auditors of the Company for
the financial year ending 31 March 2024 and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
Resolution 6
7. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
given in accordance with the Companies Act 2016.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
YONG MAY LI (f)
(LS0000295) (SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008000285)
WONG CHEE YIN (f)
(MAICSA 7023530) (SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008001953)
Company Secretaries Johor Bahru
Dated: 31 July 2023
272
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Notice of
Annual General Meeting
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to Participate
at this 12th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd, to make available to the Company a Record
of Depositor as at 18 September 2023. Only members whose names
appear therein shall be entitled to Participate at this 12th AGM or
appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on his/her behalf.
2. A member entitled to participate at this AGM is entitled to appoint
a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a
duly authorised representative to attend, participate, speak (in the
form of real time submission of typed text(s)) and vote in his place.
A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to
vote on a show of hands shall be in accordance with the listing
requirements of the stock exchange.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as
defined in the SICDA, it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies
in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of
the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee
which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no
limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee
may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under
the SICDA which is exempted from compliance with the provisions
of Section 25A(1) of the SICDA.
6. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion
of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be specified
in the instrument appointing the proxies.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or
by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the general meeting or adjourned general
meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes
to vote:
In hard copy form
By hand or post to the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor
& Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3,
Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
Online
As in the case of an appointment made via online lodgment facility,
please login to the link website at https://tiih.online. Please refer to
the Administrative Guide for the AGM on how to register on TIIH
Online and submit your proxy form electronically.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by
a power of attorney must be deposited at the office of the Share
Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit
32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar
South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer
Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur not
less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding
the general meeting or adjourned general meeting at which the
person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the
power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements
in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
9. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are
completed, signed and dated accordingly.
 /DVW GDWH DQG WLPH IRU ORGJLQJ WKH SUR[\ IRUP LV 6XQGD\ b6HSWHPEHU
2023 at 3:00 p.m.
11. A corporate member who has appointed a representative, please
deposit the ORIGINAL or duly certified certificate of appointment with
the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business
Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur. The certificate of appointment should be
executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of
appointment should be executed under seal in accordance with
the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the
certificate of appointment should be affixed with the rubber
stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be
a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with
the laws of the country under which the corporate member
is incorporated.
12. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in
the Notice of AGM shall be put to vote by poll.
Notes:
273
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
(i) Item 1 of Agenda
This item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section
340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements.
Hence, this Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Ordinary Resolutions 2 and 3
Pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution, Tan Sri
Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
and Mr. Loi Tuan Ee are standing for re-election at this 12th AGM
and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election as Directors
of the Company.
The Board of Directors has through the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee carried out the necessary assessment on the aforesaid
Directors and concluded that they met the criteria as prescribed
under Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements on
character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment
to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
The profiles of the Directors standing for re-election are provided on
pages 102 to 108 of the Board of Directors’ Profile in the 2023
Annual Report.
(iii) Ordinary Resolution 4 and 5
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of
the Directors and any benefits payable to the Directors of a listed
Company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at the General
Meeting.
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 4 is to facilitate the payment of
Directors’ Fee for the period from 1 April 2023 up to the next Annual
General Meeting to be held in 2024.
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 5 is for the Directors’ benefits
and meeting allowance based on the number of scheduled meetings
for the Board and Board Committee up to the next Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2024.
(iv) Ordinary Resolution 6
The Audit and Risk Management Committee had at its meeting held
on 24 July 2023 assessed the suitability and the independence of
the External Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of
Messrs. KPMG PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 March 2024. The Board has in turn reviewed
the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
and recommended the same be tabled to the shareholders for
approval for the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
Explanatory Note on Ordinary Business:
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND ENTITLEMENT AND PAYMENT
NOTICE IS HERE GIVEN THAT subject to the approval of the shareholders at 12th$*0RIWKH&RPSDQ\DILQDOVLQJOHWLHUGLYLGHQGRIbVHQ
per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2023 will be payable to shareholders of the Company on 10 October
2023. The entitlement date for the said dividend shall be 29 September 2023.
A depositor shall qualify for entitlement to the dividend only in respect of:
(a) shares transferred into the depositor’s securities account before 4:30 p.m. on 29 September 2023 in respect of transfers; and
(b) shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad.
274
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Notice of Annual General Meeting
THAT THE TWELFTH (12TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF FARM FRESH BERHAD (“FFB”) WILL BE
CONDUCTED ON A FULLY VIRTUAL MANNER THROUGH LIVE STREAMING AND ONLINE REMOTE MEETING
PLATFORM OF TIIH ONLINE PROVIDED BY TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD. VIA
ITS WEBSITE AT HTTPS://TIIH.ONLINE ON TUESDAY, 26 SEPTEMBER 2023 AT 3:00 P.M.
DIRECTORS STANDING FOR ELECTION/APPOINTMENT
There is no individual standing for election/appointment as Director at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, FFB
wishes to highlight the Directors who are standing for re-election pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s
Constitution at the 12th Annual General Meeting of the Company are as follows:
i. Mr. Loi Tuan Ee; and
ii. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas.
The Profiles of the above Directors are set out on pages 102 to 103 of this Integrated Annual Report.
275
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Statement Accompanying the
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Mode of Meeting
• In light of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and in line with the Guidance and Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) on the Conduct of General Meetings for Listed Issuers issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia
(including any amendment(s) that may be made from time to time) (SC Guidance), the AGM of the Company will
be conducted fully virtual through live streaming and online remote platform provided by Tricor Investor & Issuing
House Services Sdn Bhd (“Tricor”) in Malaysia.
• We strongly encourage you to attend the AGM via the Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities. You
may also consider appointing the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy to attend and vote on your behalf at
the AGM.
• Due to the constant evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements
of our AGM at short notice. Kindly check the Company’s website or announcements for the latest updates on the
status of the AGM.
• The Company will continue to observe the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and will take all relevant
precautionary measures as advised.
Remote Participation and Voting
• The RPV facilities are available on Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online.
• Shareholders are to attend, speak (in the form of real time submission of typed texts) and vote (collectively,
“participate”) remotely at the AGM using RPV facilities from Tricor.
• Kindly refer to Procedures for RPV as set out below for the requirements and procedures.
Procedures to Remote Participation and Voting via RPV Facilities
• Please read and follow the procedures below to engage in remote participation through live streaming and online
remote voting at the AGM using the RPV facilities:
Date : Tuesday, 26 September 2023
Time : 3:00 p.m.
Online Meeting Platform : TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online
BEFORE THE AGM DAY
Procedure Action
i. Register as a user with
TIIH Online
• Using your computer, access to website at https://tiih.online. Register as a user
under the “e-Services” select the “Sign Up” button and followed by “Create
Account by Individual Holder”. Refer to the tutorial guide posted on the homepage
for assistance.
• Registration as a user will be approved within one (1) working day and you will
be notified via e-mail.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register again.
You will receive an e-mail to notify you that the remote participation is available
for registration at TIIH Online.
276
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Administrative Guide for
theAnnualGeneralMeeting(“AGM”)
Procedure Action
ii. Submit your request to
attend AGM remotely
• Registration is open from Monday, 31 July 2023 until the day of AGM on Tuesday,
26 September 2023. Shareholder(s) or proxy(ies) or corporate representative(s)
or attorney(s) are required to pre-register their attendance for the AGM to
ascertain their eligibility to participate the AGM using the RPV facilities.
• Login with your user ID (i.e. e-mail address) and password and select the
corporate event: “(REGISTRATION) FARM FRESH BERHAD 12TH AGM”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select “Register for Remote Participation and Voting”.
• Review your registration and proceed to register.
• System will send an e-mail to notify that your registration for remote participation
is received and will be verified.
• After verification of your registration against the Record of Depositors as at 18
September 2023, the system will send you an e-mail on or after Sunday, 24
September 2023 to approve or reject your registration for remote participation.
(Note: Please allow sufficient time for approval of new user of TIIH Online and registration for the RPV).
ON THE AGM DAY
Procedure Action
i. Login to TIIH Online • Login with your user ID and password for remote participation at the AGM at
any time from 2:00 pm i.e., 1 hour before the commencement of meeting at
3:00 pm on Tuesday, 26 September 2023.
ii. Participate through Live
Streaming
• Select the corporate event: “(LIVE STREAM MEETING) FARM FRESH BERHAD
12TH AGM” to engage in the proceedings of the AGM remotely. If you have any
question for the Chairman/Board, you may use the query box to transmit your
question. The Chairman/Board will try to respond to questions submitted by
remote participants during the AGM. If there is time constraint, the responses
will be e-mailed to you at the earliest possible, after the meeting.
iii. Online remote voting • Voting session commences from 3:00 pm on Tuesday, 26 September 2023 until
a time when the Chairman announces the end of the session.
• Select the corporate event: “(REMOTE VOTING) FARM FRESH BERHAD 12TH
AGM” or if you are on the live stream meeting page, you can select “GO TO
REMOTE VOTING PAGE” button below the Query Box.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select the CDS account that represents your shareholdings.
• Indicate your votes for the resolutions that are tabled for voting.
• Confirm and submit your votes.
iv. End of remote
participation
• Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the conclusion of the AGM, the
Live Streaming will end.
BEFORE THE AGM DAY (CONTINUED)
277
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Note to users of the RPV facilities:
1. Should your registration for RPV be approved, we will make available to you the rights to join the live stream
meeting and to vote remotely. Your login to TIIH Online on the day of meeting will indicate your presence at
the virtual meeting.
2. The quality of your connection to the live broadcast is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet
at your location and the device you use.
3. In the event you encounter any issues with logging-in, connecting to the live stream meeting or online voting
on the meeting day, kindly call Tricor Help Line at 011-40805616 / 011-40803168 / 011-40803169 / 011-40803170
for assistance or e-mail to tiih.online@my.tricorglobal.com for assistance.
Entitlement to Participate and Appointment of Proxy
• Only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 18 September 2023 shall be eligible to
attend, speak and vote at the AGM or appoint a proxy(ies) and/or the Chairman of the Meeting to attend and
vote on his/her behalf.
• In view that the AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis, a member can appoint the Chairman of the Meeting
as his/her proxy and indicate the voting instruction in the Proxy Form.
• If you wish to participate in the AGM yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form for the AGM. You will not
be allowed to participate in the AGM together with a proxy appointed by you.
• For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment shall be
deposited with Tricor’s office to participate via RPV facilities in the AGM. The certificate of appointment shall be
executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment shall be executed under seal in
accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment shall be affixed with
the rubber stamp of the corporate member and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom at least one must be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the
corporate member is incorporated.
• Accordingly, proxy forms and/or documents relating to the appointment of proxy or power of attorney for the
AGM whether in hard copy or by electronic means shall be deposited or submitted in the following manner not
later than Sunday, 24 September 2023 at 3.00 p.m.:
(i) In Hard copy:
By hand or post to the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar
South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur;
(ii) By Electronic form:
All shareholders can have the option to submit proxy forms electronically via TIIH Online and the steps to
submit are summarised below:
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
• Using your computer, please access the website at https://tiih.online. Register as
a user under the “e-Services”. Please refer to the tutorial guide posted on the
homepage for assistance.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register again.
278
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Administrative Guide for
the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
Entitlement to Participate and Appointment of Proxy (continued)
(ii) By Electronic form: (continued)
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Shareholders (continued)
Proceed with
submission of form
of proxy
• After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the Company, login with your
username (i.e. email address) and password.
• Select the corporate event: “FARM FRESH BERHAD 12TH AGM – SUBMISSION
OF PROXY FORM”.
• Read and agree to the Terms and Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number of shares for your
proxy(ies) to vote on your behalf.
• Appoint your proxy(ies) and insert the required details of your proxy(ies) or
appoint the Chairman as your proxy.
• Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST, otherwise your proxy(ies)
will decide on your votes.
• Review and confirm your proxy(ies) appointment.
• Print the form of proxy for your record.
ii. Steps for corporation or institutional shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
• Access TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
• Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated representative of the corporation
or institutional shareholder selects the “Sign Up” button and followed by “Create
Account by Representative of Corporate Holder”.
• Complete the registration form and upload the required documents.
• Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by email within one (1) to
two (2) working days.
• Proceed to activate your account with the temporary password given in the email
and re-set your own password.
(Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional shareholder must register as a user in accordance
with the above steps before he/she can subscribe to this corporate holder electronic proxy submission.
Please contact our Share Registrar if you need clarifications on the user registration.)
Proceed with
submission of form
of proxy
• Login to TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
• Select the corporate event name: “FARM FRESH BERHAD 12TH AGM –
SUBMISSION OF PROXY FORM”.
• Agree to the Terms & Conditions and Declaration.
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” in accordance
with the Guidance Note set therein.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
• Login to TIIH Online, select corporate event name: “FARM FRESH BERHAD 12TH
AGM – SUBMISSION OF PROXY FORM”.
• Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
• Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
• Print the confirmation report of your submission for your record.
279
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
9
Voting at Meeting
• The voting at the AGM will be conducted on a poll
pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company has appointed Tricor to conduct the
poll voting electronically (“e-voting”).
• Shareholders can proceed to vote on the resolutions
at any time from 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 26 September
2023 but before the end of the voting session which
will be announced by the Chairman of the Meeting.
Kindly refer to “Procedures to Remote Participation
and Voting via RPV Facilities” provided above for
guidance on how to vote remotely via TIIH Online.
• Upon completion of the voting session for the AGM,
the Scrutineers will verify the poll results followed by
the Chairman’s declaration whether the resolutions
are duly passed.
Door Gift or Food Voucher
• There will be no door gifts or food vouchers for
attending the AGM.
No Recording or Photography
• Unauthorised recording and photography are strictly
prohibited at the AGM.
Pre-Meeting Submission of Questions to the Board
of Directors
• The Board recognises that the AGM is a valuable
opportunity for the Board to engage with shareholders.
In order to enhance the efficiency of the proceedings
of the AGM, shareholders may in advance, before the
AGM, submit questions to the Board of Directors via
Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online, by
selecting “e-Services” to login, post your questions and
submit it electronically no later than Sunday, 24
September 2023 at 3:00 pm. The Board of Directors
will endeavour to address the questions received at
the AGM.
Enquiry
• If you have any enquiry prior to the meeting, please
call our Share Registrar, Tricor at +603-2783 9299
during office hours i.e. from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
(Monday to Friday), or alternatively email your enquiry
to is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com.
280
Farm Fresh Berhad | Integrated Annual Report 2023
S h a r e h o l d e r ’ s I n f o r m a t i o n
Administrative Guide for
the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
I/We ____________________________________________________________________________ Tel: ______________________________________________
[Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
[Full Address]
being member(s) of FARM FRESH BERHAD (“FFB” or the “Company”), hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting, as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Twelfth
(12th) Annual General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a fully virtual manner through live streaming and
online remote meeting platform of TIIH Online provided by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd via its website
at https://tiih.online on Tuesday, 26 September 2023 at 3:00 p.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/Our proxy is to vote as indicated below:
No Agenda Resolution For Against
1. To approve a final single tier dividend of 1.00 sen per ordinary share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 March 2023.
1
2. To re-elect Mr Loi Tuan Ee, retiring pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the
Company.
2
3. To re-elect Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas,
retiring pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Constitution of the Company.
3
4. To approve the Directors fees of up to RM550,000.00 per annum to the Directors for the
period from 1 April 2023 to the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2024.
4
5. To approve the payment of benefits of up to RM76,000.00 per annum to Non-Executive
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the period from 1 April 2023 to the next AGM
of the Company to be held in 2024.
5
6. To re-appoint Messrs. KPMG PLT as the External Auditors of the Company for the financial
year ending 31 March 2024 and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
6
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions.
In the absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this _______ day of _____________________ 2023
________________________________________
Signature*
Member
Contact No
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of
your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp of your company
(if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is incorporated.
CDS Account No. No. of Shares held
Form of Proxy
Fold this flap for sealing
1st fold here
Then fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
[Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)]
Unit 32-01, level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to Participate at this 12th AGM, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd, to make available to the Company a Record
of Depositor as at 18 September 2023. Only members whose names appear therein shall be entitled
to Participate at this 12th AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on his/her behalf.
2. A member entitled to Participate at this 12th AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the
case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend, participate, speak and
vote in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be
in accordance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies
in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit
of the said securities account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in
the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no
limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined
under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section
25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
6. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented
by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named
in the appointment proposes to vote:
In hard copy form
By hand or post to the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd
at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
Online
As in the case of an appointment made via online lodgment facility, please login to the link website at
https://tiih.online. Please refer to the Administrative Guide for the AGM on how to register on TIIH
Online and submit your proxy form electronically.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be
deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
the time appointed for holding the general meeting or adjourned general meeting at which the person
named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided
that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant
jurisdiction in which it is executed.
9. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated
accordingly.
10. Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, 24 September 2023.
11. A corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL or duly certified
certificate of appointment with the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur. The certificate of
appointment should be executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated
12. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM shall be put to vote by poll.
FARM FRESH BERHAD
Co. Reg. No.: 201001010221 (894851-U)
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
Tel +607 232 3463
+607 232 8771
Fax +607 232 7622
www.farmfresh.com.my
