GROUP CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S
STATEMENT
LOI TUAN EE
Group Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer
DEAR STAKEHOLDERS,
Backed by increasingly favourable business environment, lowering of input costs and
bolstered by the success of strategic product launches and acquisitions undertaken
during the financial year, the Group has posted quarter-on-quarter improvements in
revenues and profitability, with the momentum clearly shifting from the earlier part of
our financial year. We have also made significant progress in our long-term ambitions,
enhancing our position across the dairy value chain and laying the foundation for
growth in Southeast Asia.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 35
FY2024
PROFIT
BEFORE TAX
RM69.1
MILLION
FY2024
GROUP
REVENUE
RM810.4
MILLION
29%
32%
FY2024 was a highly productive year for
Farm Fresh, where we closed out with
the strongest quarter performance since
our listing on the Main Board of Bursa
Malaysia in March 2022. The success of
our new products in the market, impact
from acquisitions and higher sales from
our commercial, especially HORECA
segment contributed to rising demand
for our products, especially from the
commercial sector. Additionally, the
normalisation of previously elevated
prices of food commodities and other
inputs, which had peaked in March 2023
due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict,
boosted our profitability. Simultaneously,
we have made progress on our long-
term business strategies to increase
production capacity, enter new market
sectors, expand our regional presence
and enhance the sustainability of our
operations. In this statement, I will
provide an overview of the major
advancements we have made in these
areas over the past year, setting the
stage for the Group to solidify its position
as a sustainable, responsible and reliable
regional dairy player.
IMPROVED FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
Numerous factors drove the significant
increase in our revenue over the past
twelve months, which rose by 29% to
RM810.4 million. Most significantly, our
sales volume for the commercial UHT
category grew by 48.6%, a feat that was
facilitated by the installation of new UHT
lines at our Muadzam Shah facility and
increasing sales from our new UHT
products, namely our Yarra by Farm
Fresh and RTD Growing Up Milk, as well
as higher sales to HORECA segment.
Additionally, our acquisitions of Inside
Scoop and Sin Wah also boosted our
revenues. Revenue from the Australian
market also increased by 19.7%, or
RM18.1 million, during FY2024, primarily
due to the full-year contribution from St
David Dairy Pty Ltd, which was acquired
in the previous financial period, and
higher external sales from Goulburn
Valley Creamery Pty Ltd.
The escalating material costs impacted
our profitability in the previous financial
year and in the early part of FY2024. As
costs stabilised and in the case of
commodities decreased, we continue to
benefit by lowering our input costs and
posting better gross margins, especially in
the second half of FY2024. Alongside our
price increase for RTD products in
Malaysia done in July 2023, and
contributions from Inside Scoop and Sin
Wah, the Group achieved its highest ever
quarterly revenue and profit before tax in
the quarter-ended 31 March 2024.
Backed by an impending increase in our
facilities and capacity, as well as our
expansion into the CPG ice cream market
sector and Philippines dairy market, we
are confident in building on our
momentum and continuing to leverage
our market-leading position to maintain a
strong financial performance for the
foreseeable future.
FY2024 WAS A HIGHLY
PRODUCTIVE YEAR FOR FARM
FRESH, CULMINATING IN OUR
STRONGEST QUARTERLY
PERFORMANCE SINCE LISTING
ON THE MAIN BOARD OF BURSA
MALAYSIA IN MARCH 2022.
(FY2023 – RM629.7 million)
(FY2023 – RM52.2 million)
“
Farm Fresh Berhad
36
K e y M e s s a g e s
Group Chief Executive Officer Statement
CONSISTENTLY GROWING OUR
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Our emphasis on constant innovation
remains a crucial factor in maintaining
the relevance of Farm Fresh products in
the dairy market. Our efforts in this
aspect are driven by our objectives to
expand across the dairy value chain while
consistently diversifying to meet the
evolving needs of consumers. A key
product introduction in FY2024 was Farm
Fresh Grow in whole powder milk format,
aimed at making our nutritional milk
formula more accessible to young
children and enhancing our presence in
the growing up milk segment. Since its
release in December 2023, the new
growing up milk powder has quickly
gained popularity among consumers,
supported by marketing efforts that
highlight its essential nutrient fortification
and absence of unnecessary ingredients,
particularly sugar added in disguise!
We have launched in July 2024 our own
chocolate malt beverage products, in
powder. This is a new market segment for
us which will enable us to grow further
our total addressable market significantly.
The surveys we have conducted showed
that 81% of the respondents like our
chocolate malt drinks. Additionally, we
have formulated our chocolate malt
beverage with less sugar and fat, and
higher protein and fibre content, which will
augur well with the more health-conscious
market in Malaysia.
Several other noteworthy products were
similarly launched over the past year,
including Natural Farm Yoghurt and 100%
Australia Organic Milk in September 2023,
Chocolate Mint Milk in November 2023,
and Riceberry Milk and Cooking Cream in
April 2024. To further promote dairy
nutrition among schoolchildren, we have
finalised a partnership with Animonsta
Studios to introduce a new series of 12
flavoured milk and yoghurt products in
September 2024, featuring the popular
Malaysian animated series Mechamato.
STRATEGICALLY PENETRATING
THE ICE CREAM MARKET
Having set our sights on penetrating the
Malaysian ice cream sector, as detailed in
last year’s report, we have continued to
make substantial progress towards this
endeavour during FY2024. Following our
acquisition of a 65% stake in prominent
local ice cream brand The Inside Scoop in
May 2023 which has provided us the
expertise in making good quality ice
cream, we have further strengthened our
position by acquiring a 70% stake in Sin
Wah Ice Cream Sdn Bhd in October 2023,
a manufacturer of ‘ice cream potong’ with
operations across Peninsular Malaysia.
This acquisition, which was finalised in
October 2023, immediately provided us
with access to Sin Wah’s vast distribution
network of over 6,000 drop points
nationwide, supported by nine distribution
warehouses, 22 dedicated teams and a
fleet of more than 60 trucks, including
those owned by distributors.
With manufacturing and logistical
capabilities in place, we have targeted to
launch consumer packaged (CPG) ice
cream in July 2024, with the ice cream
line at our Taiping manufacturing plant
anticipated to begin production of 70,000
A key product
introduction in FY2024
was Farm Fresh Grow
in whole powder milk
format, aimed at
making our nutritional
milk formula more
accessible to young
children and
enhancing our
presence in the
growing up milk
segment.
pieces of ice cream per day. This capacity
will be increased to 320,000 pieces per
day by October 2024. Our long-term
ambitions within the CPG ice cream
market will come to fruition upon the
commissioning of our new Enstek
manufacturing plant, with the building set
to be completed at the in mid-2025 and
ice cream production expected to
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 37
commence by end-2025 with a total
capacity of more than 700,000 pieces
per day.
The Malaysian ice cream market, with a
market size of about RM1.2 billion and a
projected CAGR of 4%, presents a
substantial opportunity for us. Leveraging
the combined strengths of Farm Fresh,
Inside Scoop and Sin Wah, we are
confident of establishing a new
homegrown champion in this market
segment traditionally dominated by
multinational brands.
SOUTHEAST ASIAN EXPANSION
PLANS ON TRACK
With demand for dairy products across
the Asia-Pacific continuing to grow, I am
pleased to reveal that our aspiration to
expand into neighbouring regional
markets is nearing fruition. Our new
production facility at San Simon in the
Central Luzon region of the Philippines is
on track to commence operations in the
third quarter of 2024, and we plan to
introduce a wide variety of Farm Fresh
products to the Philippines market which
will include our chilled products, UHT
products and growing up milk powder,
focusing on the Greater Manila market.
DELIVERING SHARED VALUE
As we continue to advance our expansion
plans, our commitment to positively
contribute to the welfare of communities,
people and the environment remain
steadfast, and remains enshrined within
our vision, mission and shared values
(refer to page 10 for details). A prime
example of this commitment is our home
dealer programme, which currently
includes 58 stockists, 762 home dealers
and 971 agents nationwide. Notably, 80%
of these participants are women, many
of whom are micro-entrepreneurs from
rural Malaysia. By empowering these
individuals to achieve incomes above
regional averages, we meaningfully
support their social and economic well-
being and advancement. Similarly, our
partner-farmers benefit from technical
support, training and fair market prices
that enabled them to collectively earn
RM2.7 million in FY2024 and contribute
to their local economies. We also
emphasise local recruitment with 67% of
our workforce across farms and
processing facilities originating from rural
and underserved communities.
On the environmental front, I am pleased
to announce that our very first biogas
plant has commenced operations in April
2024, enabling our Muadzam Shah farm
to sustainably convert animal waste into
fuel resources with a target of reducing
our usage of diesel fuel by 670,000 litres
per year, which will subsequently reduce
our CO2 emissions by 9,800 tonnes.
Furthermore, during FY2024, we have
completed our third rooftop solar
photovoltaic (PV) system at Taiping,
Farm Fresh Berhad
38
K e y M e s s a g e s
Group Chief Executive Officer Statement
complementing existing installations at
Muadzam Shah and Larkin. These
systems now collectively deliver clean
energy at a peak capacity of 2,239.12
kWp, enabling us to further reduce our
energy consumption at these premises.
Similar solar systems will be installed at
our Enstek manufacturing plant, which is
currently undergoing construction, as we
seek to utilise all viable options to reduce
our carbon emissions and use of fossil
fuels. Further information on our
sustainability initiatives is detailed in our
Sustainability Statement from pages 122
to 179 of this report.
PRIMED FOR SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
The many initiatives we have made
utilising the proceeds from our IPO has
laid a strong foundation for sustainable
growth, and both category and regional
expansion plans are poised to enhance
our bottom line in the coming year. As
alluded to above, we are close to
launching CPG ice cream and have laid a
roadmap to produce a more than
700,000 pieces of ice cream per day. At
the same time, we are close to
commencing operations in the
Philippines, and will be looking closely at
the reception to our market launch in
Greater Manila as we contemplate
further expansion in the country.
Further to this, we have various new
products in the pipeline that are nearing
launch. Most notably, we are entering
two new product categories in the
second half of 2024, with butter to be
produced from our Taiping plant,
targeting both HORECA and modern
trade sectors, and cultured milk from our
Larkin facility.
On this note, the commencement of
production at our Taiping plant in June
2023 has provided various benefits to
our production operations, most notably
by increasing our chilled milk capacity
and reducing the logistical costs for
supplying chilled milk products to
Northern Peninsular Malaysia.
Additionally, the completion of the
Taiping plant has freed up some capacity
at our Larkin plant, enabling the facility
to focus on expanding exports to
Singapore, which have shown robust
growth over the last three years.
Meanwhile, significant enhancements
were made to our Muadzam Shah facility
in FY2024, including the new clean room
powder milk production facilities with
500,000 kgs capacity a month. The
installation of two new UHT processing
lines and a second filling and packaging
line for 1-litre ambient category products.
These expansions were driven by
increasing demand from commercial,
especially HORECA segment, and have
served to alleviate the capacity constraints
faced in previous years while providing
headroom to increase future production.
Looking to Australia, we expect to see
stronger revenue and profitability in
FY2025 in conjunction with the expected
softening of farmgate milk prices and the
growing volume of exports to the Middle
East market. With our long-term plans
progressing as scheduled and supported
by ongoing investments to strengthen
our capacities and internal capabilities,
the Group is well-positioned to maintain
a robust growth trajectory in the
foreseeable future.
CONCLUSION AND
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
In closing, I would like to recall a
significant moment for me and the
management of Farm Fresh Group,
which occurred on 7 July 2023. I keep
referring to this day as our Black Friday,
when the capital markets punished us
based on some short-term financial
uncertainties. I am proud that rather
than being short-term in our reaction to
this Black Friday, we have remained
steadfast in doubling our efforts to
achieve long term growth in line with our
vision, firmly believing that we’re laying a
strong foundation for the future.
Thus, despite the challenges during the
first half of our financial year, we
managed to continue grow our business
and make good recovery on the second
half. These are a culmination of the
dedication and hard work of every team
within the Farm Fresh Group. Our
employees’ steadfast belief in and
commitment to our vision, mission and
values have been instrumental in
delivering another year of strong growth,
and I am deeply grateful for their
continuous efforts in upholding the
quality of our products and services.
The Group remains indebted to our
esteemed shareholders for their
continued faith in our strategies and
ambitions, while our strong performance
in FY2024 was once again driven by our
loyal customers and business partners
that support and champion the
ambitions of our home grown brand.
Looking ahead, the future holds great
optimism for the Group’s growth. As we
continue to pursue our ambitions, we
will steadfastly uphold our core values
and commitment to honesty as we strive
to create meaningful and sustainable
value for all stakeholders in the years to
come. We truly believe in doing well by
doing good.
We expect to see
stronger revenue and
profitability in FY2025
in conjunction with
the expected
softening of farmgate
milk prices and the
growing volume of
exports to the Middle
East market.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 39
Our integrated value creation framework provides a structured approach to identifying and addressing trends and risks
within the dairy value chain that may impact our operations and profitability. This empowers us to effectively navigate
challenges and proactively seize opportunities that optimise the value we generate for our business and share with our
stakeholders. Our approach simultaneously ensures that our business strategies align with the objectives of our
sustainability agenda, which is essential for fostering long-term resilience and responsible growth.
1. Our Operating
Landscape
2. Stakeholder
Engagement
3. Material Matters
4. Key Risks and
Mitigation
5. Our Strategic
Priorities
6. Allocating our
Resources
7. Value Creation
8. Integrating
Sustainability
ASSESS FORMULATE IMPLEMENT
Stakeholder Engagement Page 46 to 49
By consistently engaging with our stakeholders on pertinent
matters, we strengthen our understanding of their
expectations and aspirations, allowing us to align our
strategies and actions accordingly.
• Customers
• Distributors
• Employees
• Governments & Regulators
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Communities
• Suppliers
Our Operating Landscape Page 50 to 53
We continuously scrutinise global, local and industry-
level trends to assess external factors that may influence
our business processes, strategies and ability to create
value in the short, medium and long term.
Material Matters Page 57 to 61
By integrating insights from our market research and
stakeholder feedback, we are able to identify material
matters that bear the greatest potential to impact our
competitiveness, reputation and ability to generate
shared value. These factors play a fundamental role in
shaping our business and sustainability strategies.
• Product Quality & Safety
• Producing Healthy Products
• Efficient Farm Management & Production
• Distribution Network Expansion
• Talent Attraction, Retention & Development
• Environmental Stewardship
• Community Impact
• Regional Growth
Key Risks and Mitigation Page 54 to 56
Guided by our robust Risk Management framework, we
systematically identify and assess key risks pertinent to our
business operations, evaluating both their likelihood and
potential impact before implementing appropriate controls
and mitigation measures.
• Production & Supply Chain Disruption
• Non-Compliance with Regulations
• Fluctuations in Raw Material Prices
• Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
• Technological Risk
• Biosecurity
01
03
04
02
Farm Fresh Berhad
40
V a l u e C r e a t i o n a t F a r m F r e s h
OUR APPROACH TO VALUE CREATION
Integrating Sustainability Page 122 to 179
Serving as the foundation of all value creation,
sustainable practices are embedded into every
facet of our operations. Our emphasis on
achieving greater sustainability guides our
engagement with stakeholders, informs our
risk assessments, shapes our business
strategies and bolsters our ability to
generate shared value for our local
communities, stakeholders and
planet.
Value Creation Page 44 to 45
As part of our commitment to sustainable growth and
stakeholder prosperity, our value generation efforts extend
beyond the achievement of financial outcomes, ensuring
appropriate focus is concurrently placed on providing
healthy returns to shareholders, delivering positive impacts
on communities and national economies, increasing
employment opportunities and investing meaningfully in
social and environmental initiatives.
Allocating Our Resources Page 42 to 43
Subsequently, we fine-tune our strategies to maximise
our deployment of the six capitals of the <IR>
Framework in supporting our overarching goals and
enhancing operational efficiency.
• Financial Capital
• Manufactured Capital
• Intellectual Capital
Our Strategic Priorities Page 62 to 63
Central to our long-term value creation journey are our
three strategic priorities, which underscore the emphasis
we place on strategic expansion, innovation and
diversification to enhance our reputation as a
responsible corporate entity and promote sustainable
growth.
• Expansion
• Innovation
• Reputation
07
08
06
05
• Human Capital
• Social & Relationship Capital
• Natural Capital
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 41
Through the optimal utilisation of our resources, categorised into six capitals as per the <IR> Framework, we are
empowered to maximise the value we generate for our business and stakeholders.
Manufactured
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Financial
Capital
Our sustained fiscal strength, achieved through prudent fund management and
consistent profitability, allows us to utilise internal reserves and access debt
and equity markets adeptly. This enables us to navigate market fluctuations
and macroeconomic risks effectively, enhancing our operations and driving our
expansion goals forward.
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• Revenue: RM810.4 million (FY2023: RM629.7 million)
• Cash & Cash Equivalents: RM58.2 million (FY2023: RM23.0 million)
• Gearing Ratio: 0.62 times (FY2023: 0.55 times)
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• 108.9 million ℓ of finished goods sold (FY2023: 93.5 million)
• Increased our production capacity by 32.6 million ℓ of finished goods
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• 16 new products commercialised
• 1 prestigious award won
• All our completed Malaysian farms have been Certified Humane® by the
Humane Farm Animal Care (“HFAC”)
Continuously expanding our foundational assets and resources empowers us
to sustain high-quality dairy production and uphold our presence as a market
leader. These assets encompass our farms and processing facilities, fully
vertically integrated dairy supply chain presence, farm and milk processing
equipment, and established animal health and welfare practices.
Our emphasis on nurturing and maximising our intellectual capital, including
the skills and experience of our workforce, our access to critical cattle gene
banks, the R&D efforts we undertake both internally and with external
institutions, and our well-established farm management and milk processing
practices, enable us to drive innovation and maintain our competitive edge.
This ensures the sustainable delivery of high-quality, high-value products to our
customers and stakeholders.
Farm Fresh Berhad
42
V a l u e C r e a t i o n a t F a r m F r e s h
OUR KEY RESOURCES
Social and
Relationship
Capital
Human
Capital
Our success is built on the diversity and experience of our workforce, senior
management, and guidance from our visionary founder. Our employees drive
innovation, excellence and customer satisfaction, securing our leadership in
the dairy industry. To sustain our competitive edge and support long-term
growth, we prioritise local hires, emphasise occupational health and safety
and foster continuous learning.
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• 1,272 strong workforce across two continents
• 100% employees covered by our Safety Management System and Safety,
Health and Environmental Policy
• Zero work-related fatalities and serious injuries recorded
• 67% employees hired from local communities
• 80% of our farm employees enjoyed subsidised meals, while 50% benefited
from free accommodation
Building upon our strong track record in community betterment, we maintain
collaborative relationships with government bodies to advance health and
nutrition initiatives, focusing on the younger generation. Meanwhile, our
home dealer network nurtures win-win relationships with stockists, dealers
and agents, while we also provide technical support and training to our
satellite network of partner farmers from whom source fresh milk.
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• RM47.2 million in gross income earned by stockists and dealers under
our home dealer network (FY2023: RM45.4 million)
• RM2.7 million in income generated for our partner farmers (FY2023:
RM1.7 million)
• Over 65 million packs of school milk delivered to more than 3,400 schools
under the School Milk Programme
Natural
Capital
In safeguarding our natural capital, we place emphasis on sustainable farming
practices that minimise waste and reduce our utilisation of municipal water,
while simultaneously adopting the use of renewable energy and recyclable
packaging to minimise our carbon footprint. We undertake carbon emissions
inventories regularly to assess our ongoing progress across our environmental
stewardship efforts.
FY2024 HIGHLIGHTS
• 418.56 million ℓ of FDE recycled and removed from waste discharge
• 146,730 tonnes of solid waste recycled and removed from waste discharge
• 33.6 turnover from products using fully recyclable, sustainably sourced
packaging
• 623.4 million ℓ of municipal water saved through rainwater harvesting and
tube well pumping
• 1,486,520 kg of chemical fertiliser removed from our cycle
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 43
DOWNSTREAM (DISTRIBUTION)
UPSTREAM (FARMING)
MIDSTREAM (MANUFACTURING)
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Collective skillsets and knowledge of
our experienced team
• Access to key cattle gene banks for
optimal breeding
• Systematic farm management and
milk processing practices
• Five well-established and reputable
brands
• Access to market insights through
our home dealer network, which
includes 58 stockists, 762 home
dealers and 971 agents
NATURAL CAPITAL
• Sustainable farming practices that
minimise waste discharge
• Rainwater harvesting and tube well
pumping for reduced municipal
water usage
• Use of sustainably sourced,
recyclable packaging to promote
circularity
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Strong collaborative relationships
with government bodies
• Mutually beneficial relationships with
stockists, dealers and agents
• Long track record of contributing to
local communities
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Market capitalisation: RM2.6 billion
• Total assets: RM1.28 billion
• Low Net gearing ratio: 0.54 times
• Robust Net operating cash flow and
prudent capital management
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• Seven farms and three processing
facilities across Malaysia and Australia
• Fully vertically integrated supply
chain
• Modern and efficient farm and milk
processing equipment
• Practices that promote animal health
and welfare
HUMAN CAPITAL
• 1,272 employees across the Group
• 67% of employees hired from local
communities
• Effective occupational health and
safety practices
• Founder-led senior management
team with 35 years of industry
experience
KEY INPUTS STRATEGIC CONSIDERATIONS
·
· Consumer Well-being
·
· Climate Change
·
· Digitalisation & Industry 4.0
·
· Global Economic Uncertainly
MEGATRENDS
• Production & Supply Chain Disruption
• Non-Compliance with Regulations
• Fluctuations in Raw Material Prices
RISKS
EXPANSION
INNOVATION
REPUTATION
Farm Fresh Berhad
44
V a l u e C r e a t i o n a t F a r m F r e s h
OUR VALUE CREATING BUSINESS MODEL
OUTCOMES
·
· Customers
·
· Distributors
·
· Employees
·
· Governments &
Regulators
·
· Local Communities
·
· Shareholders & Investors
·
· Suppliers
STAKEHOLDERS FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Revenue: RM810.4 million
• Profit Before Tax: RM69.1 million
• Earnings Per Share: 3.40 sen
• Shareholders’ Equity: RM693.0 million
• Cash and cash equivalents: RM58.2 million
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• 16 new products commercialised
• Gained ice cream manufacturing expertise and
distribution capabilities through Inside Scoop and Sin
Wah acquisitions
• Three consecutive Platinum Awards in the Dairy
Beverage category of the Putra Brand Awards
• Brand of the Year award in the Dairy Products category
of the 2022-2023 World Branding Awards
• One of 25 Asia-Pacific companies to be recognised in
Steward Leadership 25 list curated by Stewardship Asia
Centre, INSEAD Hoffmann Global Institute for Business
and Society, WTW and The Straits Times
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• 108.9 million litres of finished goods sold
• Increased our production capacity by 32.6 million
litres of finished goods
• New equipment for the manufacture of ice cream
installed at Taiping and soon to be installed at Enstek
• Expansion of butter churn in Australia capable of
producing 20 metric tonnes of butter for local sales
and export markets and expanding St. David Dairy’s
product line to include oat and almond barista
versions to be sold in major cities in Australia
HUMAN CAPITAL
• RM89.4 million distributed for directors’ and employees’
remuneration and benefits
• 100% of our employees trained in the latest occupational
health and safety practices
• Zero work-related fatalities and serious injuries
• Subsidised meals and free accommodation provided to
80% and 50% of farm employees respectively  
managerial positions
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• RM2.7 million in income generated for local farmers
• RM47.2 million in gross income generated for stockists,
dealers and agents under our home dealer network
• Over 65 million packets of milk distributed to students
from approximately 3,400 schools under School Milk
Programme with the Ministry of Education
NATURAL CAPITAL
• 418.56 million litres of Farm Dairy Effluent (FDE) recycled
and removed from waste discharge
• 146.73 million kg of solid waste recycled and removed
from waste discharge
• 33.6 of turnover from products using fully recycle,
sustainably sourced packaging
• 623.4 million litres of municipal water saved through
rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping
• 1,486,520 kg of chemical fertiliser removed from our cycle
PRODUCING HEALTHY
PRODUCTS
PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY
EFFICIENT FARM
MANAGEMENT & PRODUCTION
ENVIRONMENTAL
STEWARDSHIP
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
EXPANSION
TALENT ATTRACTION,
RETENTION & DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY IMPACT
REGIONAL GROWTH
Material Matters
• Fluctuations in Foreign
Currency Exchange Rates
• Technological Risk
• Biosecurity
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 45
Key Concerns
Key Concerns
• How we maintain the superior
quality, safety and nutritional
value of our products.
• How we cater to diverse dietary
restrictions and preferences
while maintaining competitive
pricing.
• How we uphold our social and
environmental responsibilities.
• How we ensure clear,
transparent and updated
information on our product
range, distribution areas and
resale prices (for our large
format/on-trade retailers and
home dealers).
• How we provide business
development and sales support
(for stockists and dealers in our
home dealer programme).
• Prioritising consumer well-being as the cornerstone of our honest and
sustainable dairy operations.
• Ensuring our milk products are free from preservatives, artificial
colourings, flavourings and other foreign substances.
• Innovating a range of alternative milk products – including organic A2
milk, kurma milk, lactose-free varieties and plant-based milk – and
introducing new products like our growing milk, affordable dairy items
under Yarra by Farm Fresh, and our upcoming consumer packaged
goods ice cream.
• Maintaining strict adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)
and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) food safety
and quality principles across all production facilities.
• Consistently investing in community and environmental initiatives.
• Ensuring clear and open communication on products, resale prices and
distributor regulations.
• Expanding into the rural school and canteen market to create new
sales opportunities within our home dealer network.
Quality of Engagement :
Quality of Engagement :
How We Engage
How We Engage
• Corporate website
• Advertising campaigns (both above-the-line and below-the-line)
• Social media platforms
• Customer surveys and focus groups
• Face-to-face interactions (both at roadshows and on-ground marketing
events)
• Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
• Circulars and email communication
• Visits and assessments
• Distributor training
How We Address Their Expectations
How We Address Their Expectations
Consumers
Distributors
Open and transparent stakeholder engagement provides us with valuable insights into their concerns and expectations.
This process is crucial for identifying key issues that influence our product development and investment strategies,
enabling us to continue innovating and adapting to grow sustainably in alignment with their interests.
Farm Fresh Berhad
46
V a l u e C r e a t i o n a t F a r m F r e s h
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Key Concerns
Key Concerns
• How we ensure a safe and
respectful working environment
and culture.
• How we uphold rigorous
standards for anti-bribery and
anti-corruption.
• How we provide fair
opportunities for career
advancement and growth.
• How we promote clarity and
inclusion on company initiatives
and growth plans.
• How we comply with all relevant
local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
• How we contribute to
community and environmental
initiatives supporting national
development.
• How we provide sustainable,
long-term job opportunities to
local communities.
• Handling employee complaints and concerns openly and transparently.
• Instituting a comprehensive Code of Conduct & Business Ethics (CCBE),
Whistle Blowing Policy and independent, externally-run hotline to
ensure confidentiality and bolster confidence for reporting parties.
• Delivering job role-specific knowledge and professional development
through training courses.
• Rewarding performance and fostering loyalty via our Employee Share
Option Scheme (ESOS).
• Upholding high standards in occupational health and safety.
• Ensuring clear and open communication on all internal policies and
practices.
• Addressing instances of regulatory non-compliance promptly.
• Sustaining our investment in community and environmental initiatives
through collaborations with Malaysian government departments.
• Prioritising local hiring to support our surrounding communities.
• Contributing to the Malaysian economy through income taxes and
foreign currency contributions.
• Partnering with the Malaysian Ministry of Education to spearhead
nutrition programmes in public schools.
Quality of Engagement :
Quality of Engagement :
How We Engage
How We Engage
• Circulars and email communication
• Employee town halls
• Training courses
• Team-building events
• Employee appraisals
• Email communication
• Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
• Seminars, training sessions and dialogues
• On-site inspections and audits
• Integrated Annual Reports
How We Address Their Expectations
How We Address Their Expectations
Employees
Governments
& Regulators
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 47
Key Concerns
Key Concerns
• How we plan to achieve
sustainable and profitable
long-term growth.
• How we safeguard against
reputational damage from
regulatory non-compliance, food
safety issues and other
concerns.
• How we offer sustainable,
long-term job and income
opportunities to surrounding
communities.
• How we support the targeted
development of local
communities.
• How we ensure minimal
environmental impact from our
farms and processing facilities.
• Observing the responsibilities outlined in our Investor Relations Policy.
• Ensuring timely and transparent disclosure of our performance.
• Engaging in open dialogue with major investors through one-on-one
meetings.
• Upholding high governance standards and stringent internal controls.
• Increasing our investment in community and environmental initiatives.
• Generating employment opportunities in rural areas adjacent to our
farms and processing facilities, focusing on hiring locals and indigenous
populations.
• Facilitating income-generation opportunities for micro-entrepreneurs
through our home dealer network.
• Empowering local farmers through mentorship and access to technical
support.
• Initiating internship programmes in collaboration with local universities.
• Providing scholarships for students from indigenous communities
through the Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme.
• Improving education, nutrition and living standards for hardcore poor
students by establishing new community centres as part of our
Multidimensional Human Capital Development Programme.
• Instituting sustainable farming methods to minimise waste discharge
from our farms.
Quality of Engagement :
Quality of Engagement :
How We Engage
How We Engage
• Investor Relations website
• Email communication
• One-on-one meetings
• Investor briefings
• Site visits
• Quarterly financial results briefings
• Annual General Meetings
• Integrated Annual Reports
• Community initiatives and outreach programmes
• Face-to-face interactions and calls
• Visits to local communities
How We Address Their Expectations
How We Address Their Expectations
Investors &
Shareholders
Local
Communities
Farm Fresh Berhad
48
V a l u e C r e a t i o n a t F a r m F r e s h
Stakeholder Engagement
Key Concerns
• How we ensure a fair, robust
procurement system.
• How we uphold rigorous
standards for anti-bribery and
anti-corruption.
• How we support the local
Malaysian business ecosystem.
• Instituting a comprehensive CCBE and Whistle Blowing Policy.
• Prioritising local hiring to support our surrounding communities.
Quality of Engagement :
How We Engage
• Email communication
• Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
• Supplier visits and assessments
How We Address Their Expectations
Suppliers
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 49
THE DAIRY MARKETS IN MALAYSIA AND ACROSS THE REGION ARE POISED FOR CONTINUING GROWTH DRIVEN BY POST-PANDEMIC
RECOVERY AND ECONOMIC GROWTH AND CHANGING DEMOGRAPHICS. AS THE MARKET CONTINUES TO GROW, MEETING THAT DEMAND
POSESITSOWNSETOFCHALLENGESVIS-À-VISCONCERNSONFOODSECURITYANDPROVIDINGNUTRITIONFOROURFUTUREGENERATION.
THAT SET OF CHALLENGES, FOR FARM FRESH, IS A TRANSFORMATIVE OPPORTUNITY. WE CONTINUE TO GROW OUR DAIRY BUSINESS
AND KEEP A CLOSE EYE ON ONGOING OR UPCOMING TRENDS AND INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENTS, THROUGH MITIGATING POTENTIAL RISKS,
SAFEGUARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT AS WELL AS MAXIMISING OUR GROWTH POTENTIAL.
Macroeconomic Challenges
Description
The global and domestic market has improved since last year suggesting that headline inflation may climb slightly as
we continue to see growth in employment and wages. Nevertheless, the global macroeconomic environment remains
uncertain and volatile due to sluggish and uneven economic outlooks across nations and ongoing geopolitical
conflicts, leading to instability in commodity, material and logistics costs.
The IMF’s most recent world economic outlook published in April 2024 has forecasted the world economy to continue
growing at 3.2 percent during 2024 and 2025, the same pace as in 2023, with the slight increase in growth amongst
advanced economies expected to be offset by a modest growth contraction amongst emerging markets and
developing economies over the next two years1.
Closer to home, RAM Ratings has maintained its projection of 4.5%-5.5% for Malaysia’s GDP growth in 20242,
compared to 3.6% in 2023, with the economic momentum showing signs of strength and surpassing expectations in
the early months of 2024. Meanwhile, Australia’s farmgate prices have begun to ease following elevated prices during
2023, and is anticipated to continue decreasing in 2024 and 20253.
Transition to a Low-Carbon Economy
Description
The World Meteorological Organisation has confirmed that 2023 is the warmest year on record. In light of the
accelerating climate crisis, the urgency for substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and a faster transition
to renewable energy sources has never been more critical.
According to the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization, livestock is responsible for about 30% of global methane
emissions4. The Conference of the Parties in its 28th year has brought together the dairy industry players to manage
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through setting reduction commitments for methane5.
At the heart of our business, we are committed to delivering value with less emissions through prioritising sustainability
within our industry. Leading with examples, our efforts to lower emissions are driving domestic industry dairy players
to align with the global initiatives whilst focusing on our competitive strengths.
Farm Fresh Berhad
50
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
MARKET LANDSCAPE – KEY MARKET TRENDS
• To address the anticipated increase in demand for dairy products, we have continued diversifying
our product range and expanding our farm capacities in Malaysia and Australia.
• We are also venturing into adjacent dairy market sectors such as chocolate malt, CPG ice cream and
butter, which offer better gross margins and enhances the resilience of our portfolio.
• We closely monitor prices and stock levels to manage supply and demand volatility proactively.
• We hedge our costs by locking in ingredient prices for future deliveries and entering into forward
contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure.
OUR RESPONSE
Key Stakeholders Material Matters Capitals
References
1. https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO
2. https://www.ram.com.my/pressrelease/?prviewid=6637
3. https://milkvalue.com.au/blog/abares-bleak-dairy-outlook/
• With the completion of our solar PV project at Taiping during FY2024, we now have three rooftop
solar systems collectively delivering clean energy at a peak capacity of 2,239.12 kWp.
• We have also commenced operations of our new biogas plant at Muadzam Shah in April 2024,
enabling us to significantly reduce our annual diesel consumption and carbon emissions.
• We continue to adopt regenerative agriculture practices across our farms to reduce reliance on
chemical fertilisers and curb methane emissions from animal waste.
• Similar clean energy initiatives and projects will be implemented at our upcoming Enstek
manufacturing facility.
OUR RESPONSE
Key Stakeholders Material Matters Capitals
References
1. https://www.fao.org/family-farming/detail/en/c/1634679/
2. https://www.cop28.com/en/food-and-agriculture
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 51
Health & Wellness
Description
Malaysia continues to grapple with health challenges, as highlighted by the World Population Review 2023, which
identifies our nation as the most obese in Southeast Asia with an obesity rate of 19.7%6. This issue extends to the
younger population, with the Malaysian Obesity Society reporting that 29.8% of children aged five to 17 are overweight
(15%) or obese (14.8%)6.
At the same time, a recent report by Ken Research has confirmed that Malaysian consumers are increasingly
prioritising their well-being, fuelling demand for fortified milk, yogurt packed with live cultures, and even dairy
alternatives catering to specific dietary needs8.
In response, we are contributing to improving children’s nutrition by launching and promoting a growing up milk and
milk powder made from pure cow’s milk, fortified with essential vitamins and nutrients for healthy development, and
free from unnecessary ingredients like hidden sugars that exacerbate obesity and malnutrition among Malaysian
children. Simultaneously, we are expanding our range of healthy and non-dairy products to address evolving customer
demand.
Digitalisation & Industry 4.0
Description
With the rapid evolution of digital technology, the FMCG and dairy sectors are experiencing significant changes in
manufacturing, marketing, and consumption.
Automation at the farm level has become transformative, reducing the need for manual labour and delivering
substantial improvements in time and cost efficiency, which positively impact our financial performance. Using data
and analytics in farming provides crucial insights into weather patterns, crop conditions, and animal health, enabling
more informed and effective decision-making.
In the downstream segment, the rise of digital sales and marketing channels has significantly lowered distribution
costs and facilitated connections with a new generation of tech-savvy consumers. The increased pace of digital
adoption during the COVID-19 pandemic underscores its importance and potential as a primary growth driver for the
future.
By adopting and integrating relevant technologies, we enhance our operations and mitigate risks from emerging
technologies introduced by new and existing market competitors, thereby maintaining our competitive edge in the
industry.
Farm Fresh Berhad
52
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Market Landscape – Key Market Trends
• We remain committed to our mission of offering a wide variety of nutritious dairy-based products free from
preservatives, artificial flavourings, colourings and foreign substances, solidifying our position as Malaysia’s
most trusted dairy producer.
• Following our successfully launch of a growing up milk for children, which is fortified with nutrients and free
from preservatives, artificial flavourings, sugar, maltodextrin and other unnecessary ingredients, we launched
a powder variant in November 2023 to extend our healthy offering to a larger customer base.
• In FY2024, we introduced a new plant-based yoghurt product to meet the evolving needs and dietary
restrictions of our consumers.
OUR RESPONSE
Key Stakeholders Material Matters Capitals
• We are continually expanding our adoption of modern technologies, such as automated milking stations and
a modern palletising system, to boost efficiency and productivity.
• To enhance processing efficiency, we will keep investing in advanced technology within our facilities to
optimise production processes, reduce costs and improve product quality.
• We are also adopting the use of modern digital marketing and social media platforms to enhance our ability
to promote the nutritional value of our products to customers.
OUR RESPONSE
Key Stakeholders Material Matters Capitals
References
6. https://worldpopulationreview.com/country-rankings/obesity-rates-by-country
7. https://obesityopen.org/open-malaysia/
8. https://themalaysianreserve.com/2024/02/20/untapped-potential-decoding-malaysia-5-8-billion-dairy-market-to-2027-ken-research/
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 53
WITH DIVERSE OPERATIONS ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN AND VARIOUS GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS, WE CONTINUOUSLY
MONITOR POTENTIAL RISKS THAT MAY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONAL OR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. WE REMAIN
COMMITTED TO IDENTIFYING ONGOING RISKS AND ADOPTING MITIGATION STRATEGIES TO MINIMISE THEIR IMPACT
WHILE LEVERAGING ON OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS AND RESILIENCE OF OUR BUSINESS.
Mitigation Actions
Mitigation Actions
PRODUCTION & SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION
REGULATORY NON-COMPLIANCE
Improper handling of our products at any stage, from milking to bottling and
transportation, along with any deficiencies in our production processes, can
lead to a significant drop in product quality and potentially affect consumer
health.
Due to the public nature of our business and the significant investments at
stake, any failure to comply with regulations, whether concerning product
standards, labour practices or environmental impact, may result in financial
losses or damage our reputation.
Material Matters:
Material Matters:
Capitals:
Capitals:
Link to
Link to
• We provide comprehensive product familiarisation training to all staff to
ensure correct handling of products
• All staff, suppliers and third-party distributors attend a food handling course
twice annually
• Production machinery is routinely inspected for defects and output quality
levels
• We align our processes with GMP and HACCP food safety and quality
principles to better control biological, chemical and physical hazards
• Our processes strictly adhere to the parameters of our internally-developed
Farm Fresh Food Safety Management System
• Our Internal Audit & Risk department conducts thorough and regular audits
to ensure our compliance with national regulations
• We actively engage with local, state and national authorities to stay informed
of any regulatory changes relevant to our business
Farm Fresh Berhad
54
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
Mitigation Actions
FOREX MARKET VOLATILITY
With a substantial portion of our milk ingredients sourced from Australia and
the majority of our finished goods sold in Malaysia, unfavourable fluctuations
in the exchange rate between AUD and MYR can adversely impact our
profitability.
Material Matters:
Capitals:
Link to
• We consistently monitor the AUD to MYR exchange rate to enable proactive
planning and execution.
• We hedge our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations through forward
contracts, to reduce the impact of volatile currency movements to our
bottom line.
Mitigation Actions
FLUCTUATIONS IN RAW MATERIAL PRICES
We remain vigilant to potential fluctuations in the prices of our raw materials,
given the competitiveness of our market and our presence across three
countries. Such fluctuations may, in turn, have an impact on our profitability.
Material Matters:
Capitals:
Link to
• We consistently monitor raw material prices and stock levels to proactively
address supply and demand volatility
• We strategically enhance our animal feed procurement through planting corn
at our farms to reduce our reliance on imports amidst geopolitical factors
which may drive the corn grain prices
• We optimise raw material costs through hedging on the prices to manage
price volatility and preserve our margins
RISK TREND
RISK RATING
INCREASE DECREASE STABLE
Low Moderate High Very Significant
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 55
Mitigation Actions
Mitigation Actions
TECHNOLOGICAL RISK
BIOSECURITY
The possibility of new entrants leveraging advanced technology to gain a
competitive edge in quality, cost efficiency or increased production capacity
poses a risk to our market share, while the increasing digitisation of our
business also highlights cybersecurity of our production systems and sales
channels as a critical concern.
Upholding the optimal functioning of our farms and maintaining a healthy
environment for the thousands of cows they house is vital. Failure to effectively
contain infections could significantly deplete our resources and compromise
product quality and safety, thereby impacting our bottom line and reputation.
Material Matters:
Material Matters:
Capitals:
Capitals:
Link to
Link to
• Our dedicated IVF unit conducts ongoing research and development to
breed cows with higher productivity and resilience to our tropical climate.
• We continuously explore innovative farm management and production
methods to bolster product quality and operational efficiency.
• We invest in enhancing the efficiency of our processing facilities by introducing
new and advanced production lines and improving existing ones.
• We provide training support for all staff members to enhance their
competencies in cybersecurity and personal data protection.
• Through collaboration with external experts, we conduct regular IT system
health checks and security updates.
• We have implemented strict herd biosecurity measures across all our farms,
with our farming practices conducted in adherence to the Good Animal
Husbandry Practices (GAHP) manual and the MyGAP certification signifying
our commitment to good agricultural practices for livestock.
• A qualified team of veterinarians, animal science, and husbandry graduates
oversees these measures and assumes primary responsibility for the health
of our herd.
• Regular vaccinations, including scheduled Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD)
inoculations, are administered to our herd.
Farm Fresh Berhad
56
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Key Risks and Mitigation
OUR MATERIAL MATTERS ARE THE PRIMARY ISSUES WITH THE GREATEST POTENTIAL TO INFLUENCE OUR ABILITY
TO GENERATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE. THROUGH A COMPREHENSIVE MATERIALITY DETERMINATION PROCESS,
WE CONSIDER OUR RISKS AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES, ALONG WITH FEEDBACK FROM KEY STAKEHOLDERS, TO
ACCURATELY GUIDE OUR IDENTIFICATION OF THESE MATTERS.
The accompanying materiality matrix illustrates the result of our materiality determination process undertaken during
FY2024.
FARM FRESH MATERIALITY MATRIX
Community Impact
Product Quality
& Safety
Producing Healthy
Products
Distribution Network
Expansion
Environmental
Stewardship
Efficient Farm
Management &
Production
Regional Growth
Talent Attraction,
Retention &
Development
Significance to Farm Fresh Berhad
Significance to Our Stakeholders
Using reliable external sources and drawing on our collective internal experience and knowledge,
we compile a comprehensive list of material topics that considers prevalent industry trends,
relevant risks and our future growth ambitions.
Our Board of Directors thoroughly examines each topic, assessing its importance to both our
financial and non-financial performance.
We provide our key stakeholders a survey that presents the same list of topics, inviting them to
evaluate the potential impact of each topic in their assessments of Farm Fresh Berhad.
Based on the outcomes of the previous stages, we map the material topics and their significance
to both our business and stakeholders onto a matrix, enabling us to identify the most important
matters to focus on.
Identification
Stakeholder
Engagement
Assessment
Determination
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 57
MATERIALITY
Why It Matters
We are proud of our flawless track record in
manufacturing safe, high-quality products, with zero
product recalls due to safety concerns since 2014.
Upholding this impeccable reputation is vital for
sustaining our financial performance and driving our
growth ambitions, while adverse events may impact
market demand and customer loyalty, impeding our
growth prospects.
How We Address It
• Enforcing adherence to GMP and HACCP food
safety and quality principles across all our
production facilities.
• Implementing a robust system of checks and
controls at every stage of the production process.
• Conducting regular maintenance of existing
equipment to ensure optimal functionality.
Future Plans:
• Invest in equipment to progressively upgrade
our facilities, especially to equip our upcoming
central manufacturing hub at Enstek.
Future Plans:
• Continue to invest in developing healthy products
that meet the nutritional needs of consumers,
such as chocolate malt beverage, butter, and
cultured milk that will be launched during
FY2025.
Why It Matters
Amidst growing consumer health awareness, our
reputation as a provider of health-conscious products
positions us favourably to expand our market share
and foster the sustainable growth of our business.
How We Address It
• Delivering the highest standards in health and
nutrition across all our products, made without
preservatives, artificial colourings and flavourings,
or other foreign substances.
• Offering healthy products that cater to growing
market niches, such as our recently launched
plant-based yoghurt, as well as new consumer
bases with our cow’s milk-based growing-up milk
and milk powder variants.
• Ensuring full transparency in our labelling and
marketing practices.
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY PRODUCING HEALTHY
PRODUCTS
Farm Fresh Berhad
58
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Materiality
EFFICIENT FARM MANAGEMENT &
PRODUCTION
Why It Matters
By continuously improving our farm management
and production methods, we are empowered to
consistently deliver high-quality products at
competitive prices, both in Malaysia and international
markets.
How We Address It
• Utilising our “grass-to-glass” business model to
achieve greater efficiencies in production costs
and supply chain management.
• Continuously improving our IVF practices to
quickly develop superior genetic traits.
• Optimising our feeding, biosecurity and milking
practices to enhance the productivity of our
dairy herds.
• Investing in modern barns and farm technologies
to ensure better animal welfare.
• Implementing advanced production technologies
to produce high-quality milk more efficiently.
Future Plans:
• Continuously enhance our humane farming
practices in accordance with Certified Humane®
standards.
• Collaborate with tertiary institutions and research
firms to develop improved animal health and
welfare practices tailored for tropical climates.
• Enhance our production efficiency through our
upcoming new central manufacturing hub at
Enstek.
Future Plans:
• Post acquisition from Sin Wah, our future ice
cream products will be leveraging their
distribution access to more than 6,000 points
across the country with more significant
increases in drop points being planned.
• Appoint established distributors to increase
penetration into the East Malaysia market,
especially in UHT and powder formats.
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
EXPANSION
Why It Matters
Our extensive distribution network in Malaysia spans
urban, suburban and rural areas, providing us with
a significant competitive edge. Nevertheless, there
are still untapped regions within the country where
we can further expand. There also remains potential
to replicate our successful home dealer network in
other Asian countries as part of our regional growth
strategy.
How We Address It
• Continually enhancing our home dealer incentive
plan to drive increased sales while improving
livelihoods within our network.
• Expanding our reach in underpenetrated areas of
Malaysia through proactive recruitment of new
stockists and home dealers.
• Undertaking strategic acquisitions of companies
with established distribution networks, such as
our acquisition of Sin Wah Ice Cream in FY2024.
• Nurturing relationships with new distributors to
grow our presence in large-format and on-trade
retail outlets.
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 59
TALENT ATTRACTION, RETENTION
& DEVELOPMENT
Why It Matters
We recognise the importance of having a seasoned team
in dairy farming and production, as they play a crucial role
in upholding our commitment to food safety, quality, and
animal welfare. It is essential for us to retain and enhance
this talented workforce as we introduce new products and
enter new markets.
How We Address It
• Offering competitive remuneration packages to attract
new talents and retain our experienced team.
• Utilising our Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
to reward employee performance and promote staff
retention.
• Partnering with local universities to establish internship
programmes.
• Supporting the education of students from indigenous
communities through the Farm Fresh Scholarship
Programme, with the aim of offering employment
opportunities to suitable graduates upon completion
of their studies.
Future Plans:
• Attracting talents from multinational companies and
leveraging their skills and knowledge.
ENVIRONMENTAL
STEWARDSHIP
Why It Matters
As consumer preferences and investor decisions increasingly
favour corporate environmental responsibility and climate
action, we understand the importance of prioritising these
aspects in our business practices. Furthermore, it is
incumbent upon us to adopt environmental management
approaches that minimise adverse effects on local
communities.
How We Address It
• Implementing sustainable farming practices that recycle
animal waste for use as bio-fertiliser, cow bedding and
irrigation for feed pastures.
• Introducing rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping
technologies to decrease reliance on municipal water.
• Utilising sustainably sourced and recyclable packaging
for selected products.
• Conducting regular carbon footprint assessments to
monitor our emissions-related progress.
• Installing solar energy facilities at our Muadzam Shah,
Larkin and Taiping processing plants to generate
renewable energy and reduce dependence on non-
renewable sources.
• Developing a biogas plant at our Muadzam Shah farm,
which commenced operations in April 2024 and is
targeted to reduce annual diesel usage by 670,000
litres and mitigate emissions by 9,800 tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
eq) per annum.
• Increasing our use of fully recyclable Tetra Pak
packaging, which now represents 33.6% of our product
sales.
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Future Plans:
• Implement an additional biogas plant at our Taiping farm.
• Reduce our carbon footprint in accordance with
internally-set targets for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
• Continue efforts to increase the proportion of products
sold in sustainably sourced, recyclable packaging.
• Explore additional renewable energy initiatives at our
farms and processing facilities.
Farm Fresh Berhad
60
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Materiality
COMMUNITY IMPACT
Why It Matters
Being a locally founded Malaysian enterprise, we hold a
profound commitment to enhancing local communities,
which we view as fundamental to our organisational
mission. With our extensive business footprint, we possess
a distinct opportunity to stimulate job creation, promote
skills enhancement and facilitate entrepreneurial ventures,
particularly within rural and underprivileged communities.
How We Address It
• Creating job opportunities in rural areas surrounding
our farms and processing facilities, prioritising local
candidates and providing prospects for indigenous
communities.
• Establishing avenues for micro-entrepreneurs to
generate income through our home dealer network.
• Sharing expertise with local farmers through
mentorship and providing technical assistance, while
ensuring fair market prices for the milk they supply.
• Introducing internship schemes in collaboration with
local universities.
• Supporting the education of Orang Asli students
through the Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme.
• Launching educational programmes in schools aimed
at promoting nutrition and wellness among youth.
• Teaming up with the Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Health, and Yayasan Didik Negara to initiate a novel
Multidimensional Human Capital Development
Programme, which will involve establishing community
centres in targeted areas to enhance education,
nutrition and living standards for hardcore poor
students.
Future Plans:
• Our Enstek manufacturing hub, slated for completion
in second half of 2025, is intended to manufacture ice
cream on a large scale while facilitating increased
exports to the Asia Pacific region.
• We will continue to explore further expansion in
Philippines by setting up a large scale dairy farm as
well as other regional markets including Indonesia.
Future Plans:
• Expanding our Farm Fresh Scholarship Program to
more Orang Asli students.
• Continuing and enhancing our Multidimensional
Human Capital Development community centres.
REGIONAL GROWTH
Why It Matters
Given the significant shortage of commercial dairy
companies offering fresh milk-based products across Asia,
our proximity to these markets and expanding production
capacity provides us with the opportunity to capitalise on
the growth potential available.
How We Address It
• Progressing with our expansion efforts in the Philippines,
with our new factory at San Simon expected to be
operational in the third quarter of 2024 and begin
servicing the Greater Manila market.
• The operationalisation of our Taiping plant in June 2023
has enabled us to allocate more capacity at our Larkin
plant towards increasing exports to Singapore.
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Link to:
Capitals:
Stakeholders:
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 61
AS A MALAYSIAN-GROWN COMPANY, WE TAKE PRIDE IN DELIVERING HIGH-QUALITY DAIRY PRODUCTS TO
NATIONAL AND REGIONAL POPULATIONS, AND HAVE ALIGNED OUR BUSINESS GOALS WITH THE BETTERMENT OF
PEOPLE, COMMUNITIES AND THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
In our quest to expand our presence nationally and regionally, our strategic emphasis remains on penetrating untapped
markets and introducing innovative products to bolster our market share across diverse categories. Concurrently, it is
imperative that we maintain our reputation for responsibly creating shared value and prioritise sustainability to fully realise
our growth aspirations.
To mobilise collective action across the group towards our strategic focal points, we have established the following three
foundational pillars to guide our value creation efforts.
Our Action Plan
• Increase the size of our farms, herd and milk output by expanding existing
farms and acquiring additional land holdings.
• Introduce new filling and packaging lines in our current processing facilities
to meet greater commercial demand, especially from the HORECA segment.
• Establish a new manufacturing hub in Bandar Enstek, Central Region of
Peninsular Malaysia by 2025.
• Extend our distribution channels to include convenience stores and petrol
kiosks, capitalising on our home dealer network to target underserved areas
of Malaysia, and appointing established distributors to increase penetration
into the East Malaysia market, especially in UHT and powder formats.
• With our Philippines factory expected to be operational by 2024, we will
continue to explore further growth in other regional markets.
KEY PRIORITIES:
• Enhance the Group’s
performance and results
• Optimise shareholder
returns
Desired Outcomes
• Steady growth of our footprint across Malaysia,
Australia and the Asia Pacific
• Continual expansion of our farms and production
facilities
Key Performance Indicators:
• 15%-20% increase in Production Capacity
• Commencement of operations of Enstek
plant in 2025
EXPANSION
Broadening and diversifying our product portfolio to reach new markets in Malaysia, Australia and the Asia
Pacific, while concurrently maximising the efficiency of our farms and processing facilities.
Farm Fresh Berhad
62
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Our Action Plan
• Implement regenerative agriculture practices across all our farms.
• Consider expanding our use of biogas and solar facilities across our farms and
processing facilities where feasible.
• Expand rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping systems across all our farms.
• Increase the use of sustainably sourced Tetra Pak packaging to support circularity.
• Establish Multidimensional Human Capital Development community centres in
targeted areas to enhance education, nutrition and living standards for hardcore
poor students.
• Maintain collaboration with the Ministry of Education for supplying schoolchildren
with nutritional milk under the School Milk Programme.
• Expand our Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme, supporting the education and
future employment of children from Orang Asli communities.
• Enhance collaborations with veterinary-related institutions, corporations, and
research centres to develop improved animal health and welfare practices tailored
to tropical climates.
KEY PRIORITIES:
• Enhance performance within
our Better Dairy, Stronger
Communities and Healthier
Planet sustainability pillars.
(Refer to ‘Our Sustainability
Journey’ for further details.)
Desired Outcomes
• Steady improvement in our ESG performance and ratings
• Improved standing amongst stakeholders
Key Performance Indicators:
• Group wide annual reduction emission intensity of 5%
• Inclusion in FTSE4Good
REPUTATION
Elevating our standing as a manufacturer of premium-quality products and as a conscientious corporation that
proactively contributes to fostering a positive societal and environmental footprint.
Our Action Plan
• Further promote and innovate our Farm Fresh Grow range following the launch
of the new powder format during FY2024.
• Entering new market categories such as chocolate malt beverage, butter and
cultured milk during FY2025.
• Continuously expand our Yarra by Farm Fresh product lineup to capture a
larger portion of the UHT/ambient milk segment.
• Introduce a new line of consumer packaged goods (CPG) ice cream during
FY2025, capitalising on the artisanal experience and strong brand recognition of
Inside Scoop and the distribution network of newly acquired Sin Wah Ice Cream.
• Explore opportunities to enter new product categories such as non-dairy
packaged food and beverage items.
• Increase the utilisation of automation technology to enhance production
efficiency.
KEY PRIORITIES:
• Diversify product range and
enhance product quality
• Increase production efficiency
• Increase customer satisfaction
and loyalty
Desired Outcomes
• Expanded portfolio of dairy products from ice
cream to butter
• Penetration of new market segments
• Improved production efficiency
Key Performance Indicators:
• Launch of CPG Ice Cream, chocolate malt and
butter in FY2025
INNOVATION
Creating innovative products that resonate with evolving consumer preferences and requirements, while
fostering a culture of innovation to promote ongoing enhancement of our processes across the dairy value
chain.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 63
THE GROUP DELIVERED A STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN FY2024, DRIVEN BY THE SALES GROWTH FROM
OUR NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES, INCREMENTAL IMPACT OF ACQUISITIONS AND A CONTINUING TREND OF REDUCTION
IN INPUT COSTS.
LOWER COSTS AND HIGHER DEMAND FUEL RECORD FINANCIAL RESULTS
the increased sales and marketing expenses for new product
launches like the powdered format of Farm Fresh Grow.
The Group also incurred higher finance costs due to
increased borrowings for expansion and incurred higher
tax expenses arising from the acquisitions of Inside Scoop
and Sin Wah, which do not enjoy any tax incentives.
PATAMI for FY2024 has increased by a significant 26.7%,
growing by RM13.4 million to RM63.5 million.
A RESILIENT FINANCIAL POSITION
During FY2024, our total assets rose significantly by RM217.0
million, from RM1,062.6 million to RM1,279.6 million, marking
a 20.4% growth over FY2023. This increase was driven by
an RM80.8 million rise in property, plant and equipment
(PPE) assets mainly due to regional expansion in the
Philippines, capital expenditure for our Taiping plant and
expanding our other farms and processing lines. We also
recorded a significant increase of RM93.5 million in our
intangible assets due to the recognition of goodwill as a
result of our acquisitions of Inside Scoop and Sin Wah.
The growth in total assets was partially offset by a 10%
reduction in inventories due to lesser purchases of dairy
materials with the expectation of a drop in the Australian
average farmgate raw milk prices and whole milk powder
price.
Our total liabilities increased by 37.5% from RM426.7 million
in FY2023 to RM586.6 million in FY2024, mainly due to the
drawdown of the second tranche of Sukuk of RM100 million
to fund the Group’s expansion. Additionally, the acquisition
The Group marked another year of robust revenue growth,
with FY2024 revenue increasing by 28.7%, or RM180.7
million, to RM810.4 million.
Several factors contributed to a 30.2% growth in our
Malaysian revenue, including higher commercial UHT sales,
robust demand from the HORECA market, positive impacts
from new products like Farm Fresh Grow and Yarra by
Farm Fresh, and revenue contributions from Inside Scoop
and Sin Wah.
Australian revenue also saw a 19.7% increase, or RM18.1
million, driven by the full-year revenue contribution from
St David Dairy Pty Ltd, which was acquired in the previous
financial period, and higher external sales from Goulburn
Valley Creamery Pty Ltd.
Meanwhile, the Group’s gross profit rose 44.4% to RM216.0
million as a result of the higher sales and improved gross
profit margins, which increased to 26.7% in the current
financial period from 23.8% in the corresponding period.
This profitability boost was driven by reduced input costs
for dairy raw materials, price increases on chilled RTD
products and certain UHT products in Malaysia effective
mid-July 2023, and contributions from new acquisitions of
Inside Scoop and Sin Wah.
As a result, the Group’s profit before tax grew by 32.4%
to RM69.1 million, driven by higher revenues and gross
profits but partially offset by higher administrative costs,
particularly salary and depreciation costs from the
acquisitions of Inside Scoop and Sin Wah. Additionally, the
Group faced higher sales and distribution costs in line with
FY2024
(RM million)
FY2023
(RM million)
Change
Revenue 810.4 629.7 +29%
Gross Profit 216.0 149.7 +44%
Profit Before Tax 69.1 52.2 +32%
PATAMI 63.5 50.1 +27%
Farm Fresh Berhad
64
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
The combination of strong revenue growth pipeline, category
expansion into CPG ice cream, chocolate malt beverage,
butter and cultured milk which increases the total
addressable market of the Group and in increasingly
favourable outlook on input costs have put Farm Fresh in
a good position to extend its upward trajectory in posting
better financial results in the next financial year.
In Australia, the 10.7% reduction in average farmgate milk
prices for the Group in July 2024 is expected to lower milk
costs in the second half of FY2025 for our externally sourced
milk in Australia. We have already reaped the benefit of
lower whole milk powder prices both from a combination
of lower whole milk powder prices globally and from our
hedging exercise.
In Malaysia, the operationalisation of our Taiping processing
plant, the expansion of UHT lines and strategic product
launches in new categories have driven a steady increase
in sales growth, culminating in our highest ever quarterly
revenue and profit recorded in the final quarter of FY2024.
Having expanded our herd capacity across all farms, we
are equipped to continue serving the increase in demand
from the Malaysian market, while the new Taiping plant
has simultaneously freed up space at our Larkin facility to
focus on expanding our sales to Singapore.
We also anticipate revenue growth from new product
launches, with CPG ice cream to be launched in July 2024,
as well as chocolate malt in both powder and ready-to-drink
format, butter and cultured milk set to be launched in the
second half of 2024. Taiping is also expected to start
producing 70,000 pieces of ice cream daily from July 2024
and increasing to 320,000 pieces per day by October 2024,
marking our official entry into the CPG ice cream sector.
In the second half of this year, we commence production
and sale of our products in the Greater Manila market,
with our new San Simon facility scheduled to commence
operations in in the third quarter of 2024 and unlock a
new revenue stream from the sizable Philippines market.
With numerous developments, including category and regional
expansion efforts, set to materialise during FY2025, we look
forward for the Group to continue our growth trajectory.
Additionally, the ongoing development of our new central
manufacturing hub at Enstek is laying a robust groundwork
for our future national and regional expansion ambitions
of Inside Scoop led to a recognition of a put option liability
of RM37.0 million pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement
entered with the non-controlling interests of Inside Scoop
whereby the non-controlling shareholder has the right to
require the Company to purchase their equity interest in
Inside Scoop in accordance to the terms of the Shareholders
Agreement. The put option liability has been accounted for
under non-current liabilities, with the corresponding amount
as other non-distributable reserve under equity. Also, the
acquisition of Inside Scoop has resulted in an increase in
lease liabilities of RM12.2 million.
Total equity attributable to the owners of the Company
increased from RM631.0 million in FY2023 to RM666.4
million in FY2024. This RM35.4 million increase is attributable
to the Group’s profitability and the increase in share capital
of RM17.6 million as part of the purchase consideration
for the 65% equity stake in Inside Scoop which was partially
offset by dividend payments of RM18.7 million and
aforementioned put option accounting impact to equity of
RM37.0 million.
Our trade and other payables grew by RM28.7 million
contributed by the higher outstanding amount from capital
expenditure for our expansion into the Philippines.
Due to the aforementioned reasons, our gross debt to
equity ratio rose from 0.55 times to 0.62 times and our
current ratio slightly declined from 3.01 times to 2.93 times
over FY2024.
As at the end of FY2024, I am pleased to report that the
Group remains well-positioned to execute growth and
expansion strategies while maintaining a stable and resilient
financial position.
DELIVERING HEALTHY SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
A final single tier dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share
in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2023 was
approved during the 12th Annual General Meeting and
paid out on 10 October 2023. The total dividend payout
of RM18.7 million reflects the Group’s commitment of
distributing at least 25% of the net profit of each fiscal
year to shareholders.
The Board of Directors has recommended a single-tier final
dividend of 1.20 sen per ordinary share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 March 2024, amounting to RM22.5
million, which is subject to shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 65
Year Ended 31 March
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Results
Revenue 810,411 629,691 501,921 490,498 303,067
Gross Profit 216,043 149,653 136,344 140,886 80,054
Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
Amortisation (“EBITDA”) 133,594 96,868 104,082 98,759 56,554
Profit Before Tax (“PBT”) 69,065 52,174 65,684 67,589 36,176
Profit After Tax (“PAT”) 63,281 49,934 78,565 32,828 34,382
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company
(“PATAMI”) 63,530 50,080 79,887 36,228 35,220
Statements of Financial Position Summary
Non-current Assets 783,356 576,554 480,311 416,673 284,364
Current Assets 496,245 486,082 529,703 205,585 128,672
Total Assets 1,279,601 1,062,636 1,010,014 622,258 413,036
Share Capital 399,555 381,071 380,607 87,780 87,780
Reserves 266,858 249,934 225,336 146,863 101,510
Equity Attributable to owners of the
Company 666,413 631,005 605,943 234,643 189,290
Non-controlling interests 26,558 4,897 5,019 6,387 8,475
Current Liabilities 169,452 161,335 146,607 261,484 109,261
Non-current Liabilities 417,178 265,399 252,445 119,744 106,010
Total Equity and Liabilities 1,279,601 1,062,636 1,010,014 622,258 413,036
Performance Indicators
Basic Earnings Per Ordinary Share (Sen)# 3.40 2.69 4.87 2.22 2.15
Net Dividends Per Share (Sen) 1.20* 1.00 1.07 - -
Net Assets Per Share (RM) 0.36 0.34 0.37 0.14 0.12
Net Gearing Ratio (Times) 0.54 0.51 0.43 0.98 0.74
Return on Equity (%)#@ 9.4 9.0 17.7 39.1 15.8
Net Operating Cash Flow (RM’000) 134,995 (19,929) 49,202 59,668 24,173
# Basic earnings per share is computed based on weighted average number of ordinary shares for the financial year under review.
* The Board of Directors has recommended a single-tier final dividend of 1.20 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM22.5 million in respect of FY2024
subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
@ Calculated using Normalised PAT
Farm Fresh Berhad
66
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
5-YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
NORMALISED PATAMI
(RM MILLION) +12.8%
TOTAL ASSETS
(RM MILLION) +20.4%
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(RM MILLION) +9%
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
303.1
490.5
501.9
629.7
810.4
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
34.4
32.8
78.6
49.9
63.3
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
29.3
86.7
75.7
56.3
63.5
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
413.0
622.3
1,010.0
1,062.6
1,279.6
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
197.8
214.0
611.0
635.9
693
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
36.2
67.6
65.7
52.2
69.1
’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24
28.5
85.7
75.6
56.2
62.7
REVENUE
(RM MILLION) +28.7%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(RM MILLION) +32.4%
PROFIT AFTER TAX
(RM MILLION) +26.9%
NORMALISED PROFIT AFTER TAX
(RM MILLION) +11.6%
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 67
5-YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
GROUP REVENUE
• Total Group revenue grew by 29% from RM629.7
million in FY2023 to RM810.4 million in FY2024
• The growth was propelled by a 48.6% increase in sales
volume for the commercial UHT category, with strong
response to new launches of Growing Up Milk and
Yarra by Farm Fresh also contributing to the revenue
increase.
• Stronger demand from the HORECA sector contributed
meaningfully to sales growth, while new acquisitions of
Inside Scoop and Sin Wah also provided a boost to
Group revenue.
• Australian revenue increased by 19.7% due to the full-
year contribution from St David Dairy Pty Ltd, higher
external sales and growing demand from Middle
Eastern export markets.
GROSS PROFIT
• The Group recorded a significant 44.4% increase in
Gross Profit, from RM149.7 million in FY2023 to
RM216.0 million in FY2024, resultant from higher sales
and enhanced margins.
• The Group’s gross profit margins improved by 2.9%
during FY2024, with the uptick from 23.8% in FY2023
to 26.7% in FY2024 driven by the reduction in input
costs of dairy raw materials, the positive impact of
mid-July 2023 price increases effected on chilled RTD
products and certain UHT products in Malaysia, as
well as contributions from new acquisitions of Inside
Scoop and Sin Wah.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
• Higher revenue and gross profit drove a 32.4%
growth in the Group’s profit before tax, which
increased from RM52.2 million in FY2023 to RM69.1
million in FY2024.
• The increased profit was partially offset by higher
administrative costs incurred by the acquisition of
Inside Scoop and Sin Wah, higher sales and distribution
costs, increased marketing spend on new product
launches, higher finance costs arising from higher
borrowings to fund the Group’s expansion, and
higher tax expenses due to the lack of tax incentives
received by Inside Scoop and Sin Wah.
• At the same time, the Group benefitted from a fair
value gain of RM2.2 million on derivatives, as opposed
to fair value loss of RM2.5 million in the corresponding
year, mainly due to the reversal of prior year fair
value loss of our AUD forward contract as the majority
of the contracts have been utilised during the year.
BACKED BY POSITIVE TAILWINDS IN THE FORM OF REDUCING COSTS AS THE FINANCIAL YEAR PROGRESSED,
ALONGSIDE STRONGER COMMERCIAL DEMAND AND POSITIVE RESPONSE TO OUR NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES, THE
GROUP RECORDED STRONG GROWTH IN BOTH REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY DURING FY2024.
Farm Fresh Berhad
68
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
OUR FINANCIAL SNAPSHOT
TOTAL ASSETS
• Our total assets have increased by 20.4% over the past
year, from RM1,062.6 million in FY2023 to RM1,279.6
million in FY2024.
• The largest increase was recorded in our intangible
assets, which rose by RM93.5 million primarily due to
intangibles arising from acquisition of Inside Scoop
totaling RM69 million, consisting of goodwill of RM46
million and trademark/brand of RM23 million, and
goodwill arising from acquisition of Sin Wah (RM23
million).
• Our property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) assets also
increased by RM80.8 million mainly attributable to
regional expansion in the Philippines, capital expenditure
invested for expanding our farms and processing lines
and developing our Taiping processing plants.
• Cash and cash equivalents increased by RM35.2 million
while inventories decreased by 10% or RM17.4 million
due to lesser purchases of dairy materials with the
expectation of a drop in the Australian average farmgate
raw milk prices and whole milk powder price.
TOTAL LIABILITIES
• In line with our investment into growth and expansion,
our total liabilities increased by 37.5% from RM426.7
million in FY2023 to RM586.6 million in FY2024.
• Non-current loans and borrowings increased by RM95.0
million, primarily due to the drawdown of second
tranche of Sukuk of RM100 million on 27 June 2023.
Our acquisition of Inside Scoop has also led to a
recognition of put option liability of RM37.0 million
pursuant to Shareholder Agreement entered with the
non-controlling interests of Inside Scoop whereby the
non-controlling shareholder has the right to require the
Company to purchase their equity interest in Inside
Scoop in accordance to the terms of the Shareholders
Agreement.
• Current loans and borrowings decreased by RM25.3
million due to repayments of revolving credit for working
capital made during FY2023, while our trade and other
payables grew by RM28.7 million primarily due to higher
outstanding amount from capital expenditure for our
expansion into the Philippines.
TOTAL EQUITY
• The Group’s total equity increased by RM57.1 million
over the past financial year, from RM635.9 million in
FY2023 to RM693.0 million in FY2024.
• The 9.1% uptick was contributed by the Group’s
profitability and increase in share capital of RM17.6
million as part of the purchase consideration for the
65% equity stake in Inside Scoop which was partially
offset by dividend payments amounting to RM18.7
million and put option liability of RM37.0 million.
DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO
• The Group’s debt to equity ratio, reflecting our gross
borrowings, including lease liabilities, over total
shareholder’s equity, increased from 0.55 times to 0.62
times during FY2024.
• The increase was contributed by the drawdown of 2nd
tranche of Sukuk of RM100 million, alongside the put
option accounting impact to equity and recognition of
lease liabilities arising from our acquisition of Inside
Scoop.
CURRENT RATIO
• The Group’s current ratio
has decreased from 3.01
times in FY2023 to 2.93
times as at the end of
the past financial year.
• The decrease reflects the
higher repayment of
current trade payables during
the year, which has reduced
our comparative utilisation
of short-term financing
instruments.
AS AT THE END OF FY2024, THE GROUP HAS MAINTAINED A STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION WITH CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS OF RM58.2 MILLION AND A DEBT TO EQUITY GEARING RATIO OF 0.62 TIMES.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 69
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS AND MODE OF COMMUNICATION
Engagement Channel Method of Communication Targeted Audience
Analyst & Fund Manager Briefing • Quarterly Financial Result Briefing
• Business updates and developments
• Institutional Investors
• Analysts
• Fund Managers
Investor Engagement • One-on-One Meeting
• Small Group Meeting
• Investor Conferences
• Retail Talk
• Institutional Investors
• Analysts
• Fund Managers
• Retail Investors
Site Visits • Farm and Processing Plant Site Visits • Institutional Investors
• Analysts
• Fund Managers
Media Engagement • Press Releases
• Media Interviews
• Medias
• Public
Extraordinary General Meeting,
Annual General Meeting and Annual
Report
• Financial Performance
• Business Strategies
• ESG Practices
• Shareholders
ANALYST AND MEDIA BRIEFINGS
We conduct briefing sessions for analysts and the media each quarter, utilising these sessions to share comprehensive
details about our ongoing financial performance. All pertinent documents, such as financial statements submitted to the
stock exchange, investor presentations and press releases, are made accessible on our corporate website.
Financial Result Date of Announcement Date of Briefing
Farm Fresh Q1FY2024 Results Briefing 30 August 2023 30 August 2023
Farm Fresh Q2FY2024 Results Briefing 29 November 2023 29 November 2023
Farm Fresh Q3FY2024 Results Briefing 28 February 2024 28 February 2024
Farm Fresh Q4FY2024 Results Briefing 29 May 2024 29 May 2024
GUIDED BY OUR INVESTOR RELATIONS POLICY, WE ARE DEDICATED TO MAINTAINING EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION
AND TRANSPARENCY WITH THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY. THIS POLICY ENSURES WE CONSISTENTLY PROVIDE
TIMELY AND THOROUGH UPDATES ON OUR STRATEGIES, INITIATIVES, PERFORMANCE AND FUTURE PLANS. BY
ACTIVELY ENGAGING WITH ANALYSTS, FUND MANAGERS, INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS, RETAIL INVESTORS AND
THE MEDIA THROUGH VARIOUS CHANNELS, WE STAY ATTUNED TO THEIR CONCERNS AND INTERESTS, ENABLING US
TO MEET THEIR EVOLVING EXPECTATIONS.
Farm Fresh Berhad
70
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
INVESTOR RELATIONS
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
• Financial Highlights
• Financial Performance
• Financial Statements
• Segmental Analysis
CORPORATE INFORMATION
• General Information
• Directors’ Profile
• Key Management Team
• Corporate Structure
• Chairman’s Statement
• Management Discussion & Analysis
IPO CENTRE
• IPO Statistics
• Competitive Advantages
• Utilisation of Proceeds
GOVERNANCE AND MEETINGS
• Policy Disclosures
• Shareholders Meeting
STOCK INFO
• Price Ticker
• Price & Volume
• Interactive Stock Charts
• Distribution of Shareholdings
• Top 30 Shareholders
• Entitlements
NEWS CENTRE
• Bursa Announcements
• Press Releases
• Media News
REPORTS AND PRESENTATIONS
• Annual Reports
• Quarterly Reports
• Circulars
• Prospectus
• Analyst Coverage
• Corporate Presentations
INVESTOR RESOURCES
• Corporate Calendar
• News Alerts
• Investment Calculator
OUR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Our 12th Annual General Meeting took place on Tuesday,
26 September 2023, at 3pm. This fully virtual meeting
was conducted via the TIIH online platform, with
resolutions voted on through remote voting. Due to
health reasons, our Chairman, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji
Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas, was
unable to attend. Consequently, Independent Non-
Executive Director Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam was elected by the Board to chair the
meeting.
During the AGM, we provided updates on all aspects of
Farm Fresh Group’s financial, operational and sustainability
performance. In accordance with paragraph 8.29A of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements, which mandates that all resolutions in the
notice of a general meeting be voted on by poll, a total
of six resolutions were raised for discussion, including the
single tier final divided proposed for FY2023. All six
resolutions were approved following polling and
verification of results.
All questions from the Minority Shareholders Watch
Group (MSWG) and other shareholders were addressed
by the Board and Management Team. The responses
were compiled and included in the AGM minutes, which
are available on our corporate website.
Focus Areas of Meeting
• The Group’s business and financial performance
• Sustainability
• Strategies and Future Prospects
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 71
INVESTOR RELATIONS EVENTS
We conducted and participated in a range of meetings, conferences and briefings during FY2023 to engage with the
investment community, as listed below:
Events Meeting Avenue Date
UOB Kay Hian Online Consumer Day Online 11 April 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Employee Provident Fund Online 1 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Hong Leong Physical Meeting 8 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Kenanga Physical Meeting 8 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Permodalan National Berhad Physical Meeting 8 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with AIA Physical Meeting 9 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Eastspring Physical Meeting 9 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Zurich Physical Meeting 9 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Lembaga Tabung Haji Physical Meeting 12 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Tokio Marine Physical Meeting 12 June 2023
Small Group Meeting with Analyst and Fund managers RHB Centre 13 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Mondrion Investment Partner UPM Farm 19 June 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Fiera Capital UPM Farm 28 June 2023
Small Group Meeting with Analyst and Fund managers Virtual 4 July 2023
TA Securities Site Visit Muadzam Shah 18 July 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Nomura Securities Online 4 September 2023
CGS-CIMB 2nd Consumer Virtual Conference 2023 Online 6 September 2023
CGS-CIMB 2nd ESG Corporate Day 2023 The Majestic Hotel 12 September 2023
Citi Malaysia Consumer Tour 2024 Site Visit UPM Farm 13 September 2023
Small Group Meeting with Analyst and Fund managers Online 23 October 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Affin Online 15 November 2023
One-on-One Meeting with Affin Online 4 January 2024
Nomura ASEAN Conference 2024 Mandarin Oriental Hotel 16 January 2024
One-on-One Meeting with BIMB Physical Meeting 22 January 2024
One-on-One Meeting with TA Securities UPM Farm 8 February 2024
Small Group Meeting with Analyst and Fund managers EQ Hotel 12 March 2024
Small Group Meeting with Analyst and Fund managers Bangunan Ambank 29 March 2024
Macquarie Consumer Conference Kuala Lumpur 26 April 2024
CITI Pan Asia Singapore 31 May 2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
72
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
Investor Relations
MARKET PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATION
Dividend Policy
The Group highly appreciates the ongoing support and trust of our shareholders, and has established a dividend policy
targeting a payout ratio of 25% of the net profit for each fiscal year on a consolidated basis, after considering our
working capital and maintenance capital requirements.
Dividend Declared
For the financial year ended 31 March 2023, a final single tier dividend of 1.00 sen per ordinary share was paid out,
amounting to RM18.7 million. In respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2024, the Board of Directors has
recommended a single-tier final dividend of 1.20 sen per ordinary share, amounting to RM22.5 million, which is subject
to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Return to Shareholders
The dividend payout in FY2023 amounted to RM18.7 million, representing a dividend payout ratio of 37%. The proposed
dividend payout for FY2024 amounts to RM22.5 million, representing a dividend payout ratio of 35%.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 73
RESEARCH COVERAGE
The Group continues to receive robust coverage from the investment community, supported by our ongoing efforts to
engage frequently and transparently. The Group’s stock (Bursa: 5306, Bloomberg: FFB:MK) is actively monitored by nine
sell-side analysts and research houses and has a strong following amongst domestic, regional and global buy-side
analysts and fund managers.
CREDIT RATING
Throughout the year, we maintain ongoing engagements with Malaysian Rating Corporation (“MARC”). These engagements
are prioritised during annual review periods, when meetings with senior management facilitate comprehensive discussions
on all financial and strategic matters related to the Group.
Our Investor Relations team diligently compiles and provides complete operational data and financial disclosures, enabling
rating agencies conduct a fair and thorough assessment.
We are pleased to report that MARC Ratings has affirmed the rating of AA-IS on Farm Fresh Berhad’s Islamic Medium-
Term Notes (IMTN) Programme amounting to RM1.0 billion under the Shariah principle of Wakalah Bi Al-Istithmar. The
rating outlook remains stable.
Research Houses
• Macquarie Research
• BIMB Securities
• Affin Hwang Investment Bank
• Nomura Research
• Maybank Investment Bank
• RHB Investment Bank
• TA Securities
• UOB Kay Hian
• CGS-CIMB Securities
2022 2023 2024
AA- AA- AA-
Farm Fresh Berhad
74
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – F i n a n c i a l R e v i e w
Investor Relations
2023
30 May 2023
Announcement on unaudited financial results for
the 4th quarter ended 31 March 2023.
26 July 2023
Announcement on the notice of Annual General
Meeting for the financial year ended 31 March 2023.
Announcement on a final single tier dividend of 1.00
sen per share in respect of the financial year ended
31 March 2023.
31 July 2023
Issuance of Annual Report for the financial year
ended 31 March 2023 and Circular to Shareholders.
30 August 2023
Announcement on unaudited financial results for
the 1st quarter ended 30 June 2024.
26 September 2023
12th Annual General Meeting.
10 October 2023
Payment of final single tier dividend of 1.00 sen per
share in respect of the financial year ended 31
March 2023.
29 November 2023
Announcement on unaudited financial results for
the 2nd quarter ended 30 September 2024.
2024
28 February 2024
Announcement on unaudited financial results for
the 3rd quarter ended 31 December 2024.
29 May 2024
Announcement on unaudited financial results for
the 4th quarter ended 31 March 2024.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 75
FINANCIAL
CALENDAR
IN A CONSTANTLY CHANGING
BUSINESS LANDSCAPE,
CHARACTERISED BY EVOLVING
CONSUMER PREFERENCES,
REGULATORY SHIFTS AND GLOBAL
CHALLENGES, WE REMAIN
COMMITTED TO MANAGING THE
COMPLEXITIES OF OPERATING FROM
GRASS TO GLASS IN THE DAIRY
INDUSTRY, ENSURING EFFICIENCY,
QUALITY AND RESPONSIBILITY AT
EVERY STAGE.
AMIDST A MOSTLY FAVOURABLE
MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT, WE
ACHIEVED POSITIVE RESULTS DURING
FY2024 WHILE MAKING SIGNIFICANT
STRIDES ACROSS ALL THREE OF OUR
BUSINESS SEGMENTS, HIGHLIGHTED
BY NUMEROUS STRATEGIC
EXPANSION, DIVERSIFICATION AND
SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES.
Farm Fresh Berhad
76
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – O p e r a t i o n a l R e v i e w
OPERATIONAL
REVIEW
THIS OPERATIONAL REVIEW
OUTLINES THE KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
OF OUR FARMING, MANUFACTURING
AND DISTRIBUTION SEGMENTS OVER
THE PAST YEAR, REVEALING THEIR
CURRENT AND FUTURE IMPACT ON
OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND
GROWTH PROSPECTS.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 77
With increasing demand for our milk products, we
have proactively expanded our capacity across all
six of our farms. Notably, we completed construction
of new barns at our Taiping farm, boosting its herd
capacity by 1,500 cows, making it currently our
largest farm with a total capacity of 3,300 dairy
cows. This expansion complements the
operationalisation of a new processing facility at
Taiping, which, in combination with a larger herd of
2,926 dairy cows, will support our growth in the
northern states of Peninsular Malaysia.
STEADILY EXPANDING OUR FARMS
TO MEET GROWING DEMAND
ENHANCING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH WASTE-TO-ENERGY PRACTICES
FARMING
Plans are underway to develop a second farm at Muadzam Shah, which will boost the farm’s capacity from the current
3,100 to approximately 6,000 dairy cows. With the new farm located near the existing one, we are confident of scaling
up activities economically, sharing human capital and resources with our current setup in Muadzam Shah. The new farm
is expected to commence operations in 2025.
Sustainable farming is essential for the longevity of our operations, the health of our land and the quality of our products.
Since 2014, we have adopted regenerative agricultural practices to minimise waste and responsibly use natural resources.
Building on these efforts, we have identified biogas facilities as a promising sustainability initiative. These facilities convert
waste from our cow herd into clean, renewable biofuel, which can then meet some of our farms’ energy needs. In April
2024, we completed construction and commenced operations of our first biogas plant at our Muadzam Shah farm, which
upon full utilisation is targeted to reduce our diesel fuel usage by 670,000 litres per year, cutting our CO2 emissions by
9,800 tonnes.
The Group’s
dairy herd
capacity
grew by 17%
in FY2024
FY2023 FY2024
Selama 1,939 2,926
Muadzam 2,841 2,915
Mawai 1,524 1,755
Desaru 567 600
UPM 423 448
Greater Shepparton 3,061 3,208
Total dairy cows 10,985 11,852
Farm Fresh Berhad
78
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – O p e r a t i o n a l R e v i e w
Farms
6
(5 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
6
(5 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
7
(5 in Malaysia,
2 in Australia)
Total Acreage 5,416 5,367 5,367
Total Dairy Herd Capacity 9,650 11,000 12,500
Total Dairy Herd Size 8,938 10,985 11,852
UPDATES ON NEW AUSTRALIAN FARM
We have purchased and completed the upgrading of a 300-acre farm property situated next to our processing facility in
Kyabram. Due to its proximity, this new farm strategically fits to the next step expansion as it can absorb all the treated
wastewater from our Kyabram trade waste pond thus adding value for farming purposes. The new farm will continue the
AFS breed development for the Group’s Malaysian farms, which was previously done at another 350-acre farm situated
further away at Echucha Road, Ardmona, which has since been disposed. We have equipped the new farm with a new
rotary milking station and with the added milking capacity we will be able to increase the herd size to enable more milk
production from our own farms in Australia.
Regulatory requirements for
tracking and improving
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions performance
Customer and investor
expectations for greater
sustainability
Health and productivity of
our dairy herd
• Emissions data collected from all our farms have been consistently tracked
and our on-farm action plan will target to improve the emissions
performance
• Expanding our use of renewable energy sources and sustainable farming
practices to diminish our dependence on fossil fuels and decrease
emissions
• Elevating our reputation and brand value to resonate with environmentally
conscious consumers while showcasing leadership in sustainability across
the industry
• Leveraging our IVF expertise to propagate good genetics faster in our
farms, progressively improving overall herd health and productivity, thus
reducing GHG emission intensity
• Collaborating with external partners to research solutions for improving
cow health and milk production
• Increasing the training provided to our staff
Challenges & Opportunities Our Response
Land Banks & Dairy Herd FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 79
MANUFACTURING
With increasing demand for our dairy products,
alongside the success of new products such as Farm
Fresh Grow and Yarra by Farm Fresh, we have
enhanced our manufacturing capacity to support our
growth.
At Muadzam Shah, we have installed two new UHT
processing lines and a second filling and packaging
line for 1-litre ambient category products, boosting
our capacity by 22.7 million litres to 103.7 million
litres. Combined with the operationalisation of our
new processing facility at Taiping in June 2023, our
total capacity for finished goods reached 193.7
million litres as of 31 March 2024, reflecting a 20%
increase over the past year.
Looking ahead, we are on track to complete our new
manufacturing hub at Enstek in 2025, a significant development for our next phase of growth. Part of our Enstek facility
will house our production of CPG ice cream.
Beyond Malaysia, our new production facility at San Simon in the Central Luzon region of the Philippines is set to
commence operations in the third quarter of 2024. This facility will produce a wide range of Farm Fresh products for
the Greater Manila market, including chilled products, UHT products and growing up milk powder.
We are undertaking a butter churn expansion in Australia to be able to produce 20 metric tonnes of butter for local
sales and for export markets. .
STRATEGICALLY EXPANDING OUR
MANUFACTURING CAPACITY
EXPANDING OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Driven by consistent and strategic innovation to meet evolving market expectations and expand across the dairy value
chain, we successfully commercialised 16 new products in FY2024, increasing our total number of SKUs to 192.
A major highlight was the introduction of a powder variant of our successful Farm Fresh Grow growing up milk, originally
launched in FY2023. By creating a powder form of our nutritious milk, free from hidden or unnecessary ingredients, we
have significantly increased the accessibility of Farm Fresh Grow to meet the rising demand for quality growing up milk.
Other key launches during the year included Almond and Oat Barista Milk variants, Natural Farm Yoghurt, 100% Australia
Organic Milk, Chocolate Mint Milk, Riceberry Milk and Cooking Cream.
Looking ahead, we are on track to enter several new product categories in the upcoming financial year. Notably, we are
venturing into the CPG ice cream market, with Taiping plant set to begin production of CPG ice cream in July 2024 with
a capacity of 70,000 pieces a day, increasing to 320,000 pieces a day by October 2024. By 2025, our Enstek plant will
produce over 700,000 pieces daily.
Additionally, we will soon venture into the butter and cultured milk segments, with butter production beginning at our
Taiping plant and cultured milk at our Larkin facility, both scheduled for the second half of 2024.
A total of 16
new products
were launched
during FY2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
80
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – O p e r a t i o n a l R e v i e w
Growing demand for honest
and healthy growing up milk
for children
Evolving customer tastes
and dietary needs
Increasing commercial
demand for UHT products,
especially from HORECA
sector
High demand and low
supply of dairy products
in Asia-Pacific
• Expanding our Farm Fresh Grow range to include a powder format,
enhancing the accessibility of our milk formula within the market.
• Maintaining the nutritional value of our products, alongside our promise of
incorporating no hidden or unnecessary ingredients.
• Our research and development team are constantly on the horizon by
looking at the potential market and innovating new products that will serve
our evolving customers.
• Adding new lines to existing facilities to grow our manufacturing capacity.
• Building new production facilities, most notably our upcoming central
manufacturing hub at Enstek, to meet existing and future demand.
Challenges & Opportunities Our Response
Processing Facilities & Production
• Expanding our international footprint by venturing into the Greater Manila
market in the Philippines.
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Processing Facilities (number) 3
(2 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
3
(2 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
4
(3 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
Annual Production Capacity of
Finished Goods (million litres)
137.0 161.1 193.7
Annual Production Capacity of
Processed Milk (million litres)
84.0 84.0 84.0
Stock Keeping Units (number) 135 176 192
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 81
DISTRIBUTION
Our home dealer network remains a cornerstone
of our operations, extending our reach into
rural areas and create sustainable economic
opportunities within local communities. As at
the end of FY2024, our network comprising 58
stockists, 762 home dealers and 971 agents has
continued to play a vital role in promoting our
products in less urbanised areas of the country,
contributing 17% to our total revenue during
the past financial year.
As outlined last year, we have taken steps to
expand our HORECA segment. Our efforts to do
so have resulted in a significant uptick in
customer recruitment and boosted HORECA
sales during FY2024, contributing to a sales
growth of 48.6% in the commercial UHT
category.
GROWING OUR DISTRIBUTION
REACH AND EXPERTISE
In preparation for our upcoming launch of CPG ice cream, we have enhanced our distribution capabilities through the
strategic acquisition of a 70% stake in Sin Wah Ice Cream in October 2023. This acquisition immediately granted us access
to Sin Wah’s extensive distribution network, including over 6,000 drop points nationwide, supported by nine distribution
warehouses, 22 dedicated teams and a fleet of more than 60 trucks, including those owned by distributors.
This robust distribution network will be crucial in supporting our vision of producing over 700,000 pieces of ice cream
per day by the end of 2025.
Our volume of
dairy and plant-
based finished
goods sold
increased by 26%
in FY2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
82
M a n a g e m e n t D i s c u s s i o n a n d A n a l y s i s – O p e r a t i o n a l R e v i e w
Sales and Distribution Network FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Greater distribution
requirements to service
growing HORECA market
Lack of distributional
infrastructure in adjacent
market sectors such as
ice cream
Lack of market
penetration in rural
population centres
• Increasing our distributional expertise and capabilities through strategic
hiring of industry talents
• Acquired Sin Wah Ice Cream to leverage on their well-established distribution
network across Malaysia
• Continuing to leverage on our home dealer network, while providing
educational and technical support to enhance sales capabilities
• Leveraging e-commerce platforms to conduct online sales and connect
customers with our home dealers
Challenges & Opportunities Our Response
Finished Goods Sold for
Dairy and Plant-Based
Products
(million litres)
78.6 93.5 108.9
Home
Dealer
Network
Stockists (number) 45 55 58
Home Dealers (number) 900 801 762
Agents (number) 1,772 952 971
Large Format Retailers
(number)
15 15 15
HORECA Outlets (number)
7 hotels and
252 cafes
8 hotels and
740 cafes
9 hotels and
2,700 cafes
Convenience Stores
(number)
>7,200 >8,800 >9,700
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 83
84 Farm Fresh Berhad
AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Chairman:
SUKANTA KUMAR DUTT
Members:
• JOCELYN NG LAI LENG
• DATO’ DR QUAZA
NIZAMUDDIN BIN A HASSAN
NIZAM
NOMINATION &
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chairman:
DATO’ DR QUAZA NIZAMUDDIN
BIN A HASSAN NIZAM
Members:
• SUKANTA KUMAR DUTT
• JOCELYN NG LAI LENG
• LOI FOON KION
• EFFIZAL FAIZ BIN ZULKIFLY
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
MAIN MARKET OF BURSA
MALAYSIA SECURITIES BERHAD
Listing Date : 22 March 2022
Stock Name : FFB
Stock Code : 5306
HEAD/MANAGEMENT OFFICE
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel. No. : +607 232 3463
Website : www.farmfresh.com.my
E-mail		 : custsvc@farmfreshmilk.com.my
COMPANY SECRETARY
• CHIN WAI YI (MAICSA
7069783) (SSM Practising
Certificate No. 202008004409)
AUDITORS
KPMG PLT (LLP0010081-LCA)
Level 3, CIMB Leadership
Academy, No. 3, Jalan Medini
Utara 1, Medini Iskandar
79200 Iskandar Puteri
Johor, Malaysia
Tel : +607 266 2213
Fax : +607 266 2214
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI HAJI MEGAT
NAJMUDDIN BIN DATUK SERI DR. HAJI
MEGAT KHAS
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
CHAIRMAN
LOI TUAN EE
GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR & GROUP
CHIEF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
LOI FOON KION
NON-INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EFFIZAL FAIZ BIN ZULKIFLY
NON-INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
SUKANTA KUMAR DUTT
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
DATO’ DR. QUAZA NIZAMUDDIN
BIN A. HASSAN NIZAM
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
JOCELYN NG LAI LENG
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
REGISTERED OFFICE
E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603 2181 0516
Fax : +603 2181 0516
SHARE REGISTRAR
GAP ADVISORY SDN. BHD.
(Registration No: 202001042098
[1398419-T])
E-10-4 Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603 2181 0516
Fax : +603 2181 0516
E-mail : office@gapadvisory.my
PRINCIPLE BANKERS
• CIMB Bank Berhad
• Hong Leong Bank Berhad
• Australia and New Zealand
Banking Group Limited
L e a d e r s h i p
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Executive
Director
Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
7
1
4
2
BOARD
COMPOSITION
Total
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
AGE
29%
14% 14%
43%
AGE
Up to 50 years old
51 to 60 years old
61 to 70 years old
Above 70 years old
GENDER
5Males
2Females
ETHNICITY
Malays
Chinese
Indians
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 85
BOARD AT A GLANCE
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
for the Petaling Jaya and Subang Jaya municipal (now city) councils
for 20 years. During this time, he was also the chairman of the
Public Accounts Committee of the Selangor State Assembly and a
director for both the Selangor Agricultural Development
Corporation and the Selangor Industrial Corporation.
After leaving active politics in 1995, he was appointed to the
National Economic Consultative Council 2 in the late 1990s by the
then Prime Minister of Malaysia, contributing to human resource
development. In September 1999, he was appointed to the Capital
Market Strategic Committee by the then Finance Minister of
Malaysia, and in August 2001, he joined the Corporate Debt
Restructuring Committee of Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM).
In August 1994, he was elected as an executive committee
member of the Federation of Public Listed Companies (FPLC) and
became its president in October 1997. He represented the FPLC
on the High-Level Finance Committee of the Malaysian Ministry of
Finance until 2000. He was also a member of BNM’s Financial
Directors’ Education Steering Committee and was among the first
members of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC).
Additionally, he served as an independent non-executive director
of Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) from April 2010 until
April 2017.
He retired as the chairman of Omesti Berhad (formerly Formis
Resources Berhad) and as advisor of Tradewinds Corporation
Berhad in January 2018. In June 2018, he retired as Chairman of
Majuperak Holdings Berhad, while in June 2023, he retired as
Chairman of SD Guthrie Bhd (formerly Sime Darby Plantations
Berhad).
Currently, he is the chairman of Asian Pac Holdings Berhad and
SEG International Berhad. He is also the honorary patron of the
Malaysian Institute of Corporate Governance (MICG), of which he
was the first president and founder from April 1998 until 2015.
Besides that, he is a member of Transparency International
Malaysia (TIM) and holds chairmanships in several non-listed
companies, including the Malaysian Institute of Management
(MIM), Ulink Ascot Sdn. Bhd. and Kuber Venture Berhad. In
February 2021, he was appointed as advisor of Dialog Corporate
Sdn. Bhd. and in March 2021, became chairman of MYSJ Sdn. Bhd.
(MySejahtera).
On the social front, he is the current president of Persatuan Darul
Ridzuan in Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur and Selangor, a
welfare organisation. He was previously the president of Kelab Golf
Negara Subang for six years, and is the advisor and trustee of the
Tan Sri Muhiyiddin Charity Golf Foundation. He is also a trustee of
the MyKasih (Charity) Foundation and the Vijayaratnam Foundation,
as well as a council member of Quest International University in
Perak.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family
relationship with any director, key senior management or major
shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted of any
offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to any
public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during
FY2024.
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr.
Haji Megat Khas graduated with an Honours Degree in Law from
the University of Singapore in 1970. Upon graduation, he began
his career as an executive trainee with First National City Bank
(now Citibank Berhad) for two years until 1972. After that, he
practised at a leading law firm in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, for
another two years before establishing his law firm, Megat
Najmuddin, Leong & Co.
He retired from legal practice in 1986 and entered politics,
becoming the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) Chief
of Petaling Jaya at one point. He was elected as the state
assemblyman for Kelana Jaya for two terms, from 1986 to 1990
and 1990 to 1995. Additionally, he served as a municipal councillor
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI HAJI MEGAT NAJMUDDIN
BIN DATUK SERI DR. HAJI MEGAT KHAS
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
Membership(s) of Board Committees: Nil
25 September 2021
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
2 years 6 months
Age: 80 Male
4/6
Farm Fresh Berhad
86
L e a d e r s h i p
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Loi Tuan Ee is one of the co-founders of our Group. He attended
Sekolah Menengah Jenis Kebangsaan Ayer Tawar, Sitiawan, Perak,
Malaysia, for his secondary education until 1980. He began his
career in 1982 as a supervisor at Ayer Hitam Oil Mill Sdn. Bhd.
and later joined Kartika Machinery Sdn. Bhd. in 1984 as a sales
representative, focusing on the sales and marketing of industrial
products.
In 1984, he established Ready Chemical (M) Sdn. Bhd. and
Multiview Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., businesses involved in the sale of
household care products and packaging materials, respectively. His
corporate journey continued as he joined Century Bond Berhad in
1991, eventually serving as deputy managing director from 2002,
overseeing strategic planning and group development.
In 2005, he transitioned into agriculture by setting up an investment
holding company called Rainforest Capital, where he served as
managing director. His pivotal role in founding The Holstein Milk
Company Sdn. Bhd. in 2010 marked a significant expansion into
the dairy industry and underpinned our Group’s growth trajectory.
As our Group Managing Director & Group Chief Executive Officer,
he spearheads business development, strategic planning and
overall operations management. Under his leadership, our Group
achieved accolades such as the “Best Dairy Farm” by Asia Livestock
in 2015 and the ASEAN Inclusive Business Award in 2020. Notably,
our Group received consecutive Platinum Awards (Beverage –
Dairy category) at the Putra Brand Awards in 2021 and 2022,
along with the Brand of the Year award in the Dairy Products
category at the 2022-2023 World Branding Awards.
His personal achievements include recognition as an “Endeavour
Entrepreneur” at the 65th Endeavour International Selection Panel
in Bali, Indonesia (2016), and a nomination for Ernst & Young’s (EY)
Malaysia Entrepreneur of the Year in 2016.
He has been a permanent executive committee member of the
Malaysian National Food Security Council since 2020 and a
committee member of the Programme Review Committee at
Universiti Putra Malaysia’s (UPM) Faculty of Educational Studies
since July 2021. He also holds directorships at various private
limited company boards.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group. He is the brother to
both Loi Foon Kion and Loi Tuan Kin. He has not been convicted
of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to
any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies
during FY2024.
LOI TUAN EE
Group Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
Membership(s) of Board Committees: Nil
24 March 2010
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
14 years 0 months
Age: 61 Male
6/6
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 87
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Loi Foon Kion graduated with a Bachelor of Science (First Class
Honours) in Food Science and Nutrition from Universiti Kebangsaan
Malaysia (UKM) in 1991. She also holds a Certified Diploma in
Accounting and Finance from The Chartered Association of
Certified Accountants, obtained in 1996.
Her professional journey began in 1991 at Wattie Food Services
Sdn. Bhd. as a food technologist, where she eventually progressed
to quality assurance officer. In this capacity, she played a pivotal
role in establishing the company’s quality assurance programme
and food safety standards.
In 1994, she joined T.A.S. Leisure Sdn. Bhd. as special projects and
administration manager, where she was integral to the
procurement, quality assurance and financial operations of the
company. As a member of the pioneer team, she also contributed
significantly to the establishment of the first two Chilli’s Grill & Bar
outlets in Kuala Lumpur.
Her career path led her to Interni Asia Sdn. Bhd. in 1997, a
company focused on interior furnishing, where she served as
general manager until 1999. Following a seven-year sabbatical to
pursue personal interests, she resumed her professional career in
2006 as an executive director at Rainforest Capital, her brother Loi
Tuan Ee’s company. Currently, she holds directorships in several
private limited companies.
She has no conflict of interest with the Group. She is the sister to
both Loi Tuan Ee and Loi Tuan Kin. She has not been convicted
of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was she subjected
to any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies
during FY2024.
LOI FOON KION
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
Membership(s) of Board Committees:
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
25 September 2021
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
2 years 6 months
Age: 57 Female
6/6
Farm Fresh Berhad
88
L e a d e r s h i p
Profile of Board of Directors
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly graduated from the University of
Queensland, Australia, with a Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting.
He later obtained a Master of Business Administration from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Sloan Fellows
Programme at MIT, United States of America (USA), and a Master
of Commerce in Finance and Business Information Systems from
the University of Sydney, Australia.
He joined Khazanah Nasional Berhad (Khazanah) in July 2007 and
currently serves as the Head of Energy Transition. During his early
years at Khazanah, he focused on the infrastructure and
telecommunications sectors, specifically on the UEM Group of
Companies, Telekom Malaysia and Astro Berhad. In 2017, after a
one-year stint at Khazanah San Francisco Office, he was appointed
Director of Internet & Technology and Innovation and
Entrepreneurship space leading initiatives such as the Trending,
Innovation, Disruption and Entrepreneurship Programme and the
Khazanah National Entrepreneurship Outreach programme. More
recently, Effizal served as the Head of Consumer & Services sector.
Effizal is also currently serving as the Non-Independent Director of
UEM Group Berhad, Farm Fresh Berhad and Cenviro Sdn. Bhd.
Prior to Khazanah, he worked as a business analyst with Citibank.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family
relationship with any director, key senior management or major
shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted of any
offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to any
public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during
FY2024.
EFFIZAL FAIZ BIN ZULKIFLY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
Membership(s) of Board Committees:
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
18 April 2022
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
1 year 11 months
Age: 45 Male
6/6
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 89
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Sukanta Kumar Dutt boasts extensive expertise in governance,
financial reporting and risk management, accumulated over 42
years with Messrs. Ernst & Young (“EY”). He has been a member
of the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants since
1984 and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants since 1990.
He began his career at EY as a trainee in 1977 and became an
audit partner in 1991. His work encompassed leading and
supporting audit engagements and corporate exercises, including
mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings and debt offerings.
His tenure at EY saw him holding several key positions: professional
practice director (Malaysia and Far East), managing partner for
quality & risk management (Far East and Asia Pacific) and managing
partner for global risk management infrastructure. In these roles,
he oversaw the integration, execution and monitoring of risk
processes, methodologies and professional standards.
In 2015, he was appointed global risk management leader at EY,
a role he maintained until his retirement in 2019. During this
period, he chaired the Global Risk Management Executive
Committee, the Audit Committee of EY global entities, and the
Insurance Oversight Committee. His responsibilities spanned
enterprise risk management, ethics, compliance, internal audit,
business continuity, independence and conflict of interest.
He has served on various boards, including the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board, the Malaysian Auditing and Assurance
Standards Board, and as a two-term board member of the
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Since
October 2019, he has been an independent director of CIMB Bank
Berhad, and since January 2021, he has chaired the bank’s Board
Risk and Compliance Committee.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family
relationship with any director, key senior management or major
shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted of any
offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to any
public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during
FY2024.
SUKANTA KUMAR DUTT
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
Membership(s) of Board Committees:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee
(Chairman)
• Nomination and Remuneration Committee
25 September 2021
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
2 years 6 months
Age: 66 Male
6/6
Farm Fresh Berhad
90
L e a d e r s h i p
Profile of Board of Directors
Membership(s) of Board Committees:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee
• Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(Chairman)
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam possesses
over 36 years of expertise in veterinary medicine and livestock
production. He graduated with a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine
from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia in 1984 and earned a Master of
Science in Epidemiology and Preventive Veterinary Medicine from
Free University of Berlin, Germany, in 1994.
He began his career with the Malaysian Department of Veterinary
Services (DVS) as a veterinary officer in Negeri Sembilan from 1984
to 1989, where he managed beef cattle at the Jelai Gemas farm.
In 1989, he was reassigned to the DVS headquarters in Kuala
Lumpur, serving as a veterinary officer (Farm Division) until 1993.
He pursued his Master’s degree in Germany in 1993, returning to
Malaysia in 1995.
He then worked as a veterinary officer at the Veterinary Institute
in Kluang, Johor, educating undergraduates, farmers and DVS
personnel, and managing the dairy farm until 2000. He was
promoted to state director of the DVS in Kedah from 2000 to
2007 and in Perak from 2008 to 2011. As state director, he was
instrumental in developing the livestock industry, increasing
farmers’ income and ensuring animal health, including preventing
zoonotic diseases.
Throughout his career, he held several significant positions within
the DVS, including director of the Livestock Technology Resources
Development Division from 2011 to 2015 and deputy director-
general of the DVS for Development and Veterinary Health from
2015 to 2017. In 2017, he was appointed director-general of the
DVS, a role he held until his retirement in 2020. His notable
achievements include establishing regulations under the Feed Act
2009, formulating the Animal Welfare Act 2015 in Malaysia and
implementing strategic plans for dairy and beef development
programmes. He also oversaw effective disease control
programmes, implemented standards and certifications for farms
and processing plants, and facilitated export negotiations for
livestock and related products.
Currently, he is a professor and head of the School of Veterinary
Medicine at Taylor’s University, Malaysia, and a director of the
Malaysian Equine Council. He also holds directorships in other
private limited companies.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family
relationship with any director, key senior management or major
shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted of any
offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to any
public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during
FY2024.
DATO’ DR. QUAZA NIZAMUDDIN BIN
A. HASSAN NIZAM
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
25 September 2021
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
2 years 6 months
Age: 64 Male
6/6
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 91
Number of Board Meetings Attended:
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng boasts over 30 years of experience in
marketing, business development and management. She graduated
with a Bachelor of Arts in General Psychology from the University
of Waterloo, Canada, in 1985 and later obtained a Master of Arts
in Psychology from Duquesne University, USA, in 1986.
She began her career in 1987 as a psychology and sociology
lecturer under the American Degree Programme at Rima College.
Later that year, she joined the Stamford College Group, continuing
as a psychology and philosophy lecturer until September 1988.
From September 1988 to January 1994, she held the roles of
market research manager and brand manager at Malaysian
Tobacco Company Bhd. As market research manager, she analysed
market trends and consumer demands, and when she was later
promoted to brand manager, she focused on promoting the
company’s brands. In July 1994, she became marketing manager
at Quality Bakers (M) Sdn. Bhd.
In August 1996, she joined JT International as group product
manager, where she promoted the company’s brands. In March
2001, she joined Danone Marketing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. as a
marketing manager in the Snacks Division, eventually becoming
marketing director of Biscuits and Snacks, overseeing the
promotion of the company’s products.
After a two-year sabbatical pursuing art and fitness, she returned
in January 2007 to Danone Dumex Sdn. Bhd. as marketing
director, later assuming the role of medical marketing director.
She was responsible for promoting brands in both the consumer
and medical sectors until July 2010.
In November 2010, she was appointed head of marketing (Foods
& Beverages) at PepsiCo Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. By March 2012, she
also took on the role of head of commercial (Foods). In June 2013,
she was promoted to general manager for Malaysia, Singapore,
Brunei, Mongolia and the Pacific Islands, managing business
relationships with food and beverage distributors, among other
responsibilities.
In March 2015, Jocelyn joined Uniqlo Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. as senior
director of operations and was promoted to chief operating officer
in September 2015, a position she held until 2017. She now runs
her consulting firm, offering management and marketing consulting
services. Additionally, she holds a directorship in a private limited
company.
She has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family
relationship with any director, key senior management or major
shareholder of the Group. She has not been convicted of any
offences in the past five (5) years, nor was she subjected to any
public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during
FY2024.
JOCELYN NG LAI LENG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
25 September 2021
Length of Service:
(as at 31 March 2024)
2 years 6 months
Age: 60 Female
6/6
Membership(s) of Board Committees:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee
• Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Farm Fresh Berhad
92
L e a d e r s h i p
Profile of Board of Directors
LOI TUAN EE
Group Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer
For details on Loi Tuan Ee, refer to his Directors’ profile on page 87.
MOHD KHAIRUL BIN MAT HASSAN
Group Chief Financial Officer
Malaysian
8 June 2020
Age: 45 Male
Date of Appointment:
Mohd Khairul Bin Mat Hassan graduated from the University of Queensland,
Australia, in 2001 with a Bachelor of Commerce and later obtained a Master of
Commerce from the University of New South Wales, Australia, in 2002. He has been a
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia since 2005 and the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants since 2016.
He began his career with PricewaterhouseCoopers (Malaysia) as an associate in 2002,
subsequently advancing to senior associate, where he worked on assurance, audit and
business advisory assignments until 2005. In 2006, he joined PricewaterhouseCoopers
Americas (Bermuda) as a senior associate and was later promoted to manager,
continuing his involvement in assurance, audit and business advisory assignments.
Upon returning to Malaysia in 2007, he worked with UEM World Berhad as a manager
in the corporate finance department until 2008. He then moved to UEM Sunrise
Berhad (formerly UEM Land Holdings Berhad) as a deputy senior manager in the
Corporate Planning and Business Development department, serving until the end of
2011. In 2012, he pursued a full-time one-year Master of Business Administration (MBA)
programme at INSEAD Business School.
After completing his MBA, he joined A.T. Kearney, Inc. (Malaysia) as a management
consultant from February 2013 to April 2014. Subsequently, he joined NUR Power Sdn.
Bhd. as the senior general manager of Finance, and was later promoted to chief
financial officer of the NUR Power group in May 2014. He left NUR Power in May 2020
and joined our Group as the Group Chief Financial Officer in June 2020, bringing over
17 years of experience in accounting and finance. He is responsible for the overall
finance function, strategic and corporate finance matters, and general management of
our Group.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family relationship with any
director, key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not been
convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to any public
sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during FY2024.
Azmi Bin Zainal completed his secondary education at Sekolah Teknik Tuanku
Jaafar, Ampangan Seremban, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia, in 1983. He began his
career with the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) in 1989 as a land
planning officer for Felda Lok Heng Barat, where he managed the farming and
social matters of FELDA settlers.
After leaving FELDA in 1997, he founded his own business, Gemilang Packaging
Sdn. Bhd., which specialised in the trading and supply of industrial packaging.
From 2006 to 2008, Azmi took a two-year sabbatical to pursue personal interests.
In 2008, he joined Nu Moto Sdn. Bhd. as a sales representative, focusing on the
trading and supply of motorcycles to FELDA and Malaysian Army cooperatives.
In 2010, he was appointed Chief Operating Officer of The Holstein Milk Company,
where he is responsible for managing the Group’s operations and sales. Azmi is
also actively involved in the distribution and marketing of the Group’s products.
Additionally, he holds directorships in other private limited companies.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family relationship with any
director, key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not
been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected
to any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during FY2024.
Male
AZMI BIN ZAINAL
Group Chief Operating Officer
Malaysian
24 March 2010
Age: 58
Date of Appointment:
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 93
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
ADAM GRAEME PRETTY
Managing Director of the Australian Business
Australian
5 October 2017
Age: 51 Male
Date of Appointment:
Adam Graeme Pretty brings over 27 years of extensive experience as a livestock
manager with Greenham in Victoria, Australia. Before joining our Group in 2017, he
founded Dairy Livestock Exports Pty Ltd, an Australian company primarily engaged
in exporting cows to various countries including Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, United
Arab Emirates (UAE), China and Indonesia.
He currently plays a pivotal role in overseeing our Group’s farming operations in
Australia and actively managing the day-to-day activities of our Australian business.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family relationship with any
director, key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not
been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to
any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during FY2024.
JACOB A/L MATHAN
Farm Director
Malaysian
1 January 2018
Age: 34 Male
Date of Appointment:
Jacob a/l Mathan graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science (Hons) in
livestock production from Universiti Malaysia Sabah (UMS) in 2014 and has been an
integral part of our Group since then.
He started his career as a Farm Executive at our Mawai Farm in 2014, where he
played a crucial role in its setup and development. His contributions were pivotal in
establishing the Muadzam Shah Cattle Research and Innovation Centre in Pahang.
In recognition of his capabilities and leadership, Jacob was promoted to lead our
Muadzam Shah farm in 2015 and further elevated to the position of Group Senior
Farm Manager in 2018 and designated as Farm Director in 2024. Currently, he
oversees the development and management of all our farming operations across
Malaysia.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family relationship with any
director, key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not
been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to
any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during FY2024.
LOI TUAN KIN
Plant Operations Director
Malaysian
24 March 2010
Age: 60 Male
Date of Appointment:
Loi Tuan Kin is one of the co-founders of our Group and has amassed over 13
years of experience in the dairy industry. He completed his secondary education at
Sekolah Menengah Rendah Jalan Tok Perdana in Sitiawan, Perak, Malaysia, in 1981.
After secondary school, he took a two-year sabbatical from 1982 to 1984 to pursue
personal interests.
In 1985, he began his career as a production supervisor at Century Bond Berhad,
where he was later promoted to production manager, overseeing plant operations.
In 2005, he joined his brother Loi Tuan Ee’s company, Rainforest Capital, as an
executive director, focusing on the company’s farming operations.
In 2010, Loi Tuan Kin co-founded The Holstein Milk Company Sdn. Bhd. with Loi
Tuan Ee, playing a pivotal role in establishing the Mawai farm. He currently manages
all operational aspects of both the Mawai farm and the Larkin facility. His
responsibilities include overseeing daily milk transfers from farm to factory,
processing raw materials into finished goods, and coordinating logistics and
distribution of products within Malaysia and Singapore. He also holds directorships
in other private limited companies.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group. He is the brother of both Loi Tuan Ee
and Loi Foon Kion. He has not been convicted of any offences in the past five (5)
years, nor was he subjected to any public sanctions or penalties by relevant
regulatory bodies during FY2024.
Farm Fresh Berhad
94
L e a d e r s h i p
Profile of Key Senior Management
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 95
DING CHAI THONG
Group Sales Director
Malaysian
Malaysian
1 November 2022
Age: 58
Age: 40
Male
Male
Date of Appointment:
Ding Chai Thong possesses over 32 years of extensive sales management and
operational experience in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector, working
with various world-renowned brands. He attended Sekolah Menengah Tengku
Menteri in Changkat Jering, Perak, Malaysia, for his secondary education.
He commenced his career with Nestle in 1990 under Purina PetCare and steadily
progressed through the ranks. By 2004, he was appointed national sales manager
for Purina PetCare. Transitioning to the Grocery Division, he assumed senior
management roles, including national sales operation manager for modern trade in
2010 and subsequently national customer business manager for the Hypermarket/
Supermarket channel in 2019. He also served as project lead for Customer Planning
and Managing, overseeing system implementations for Malaysia and Singapore in
2010/11.
During his tenure at Nestle, he was involved in significant roles, including two terms
as the Nestle Management Negotiation Team Chairman, where he directly engaged
with the National Union of Commercial Workers. He also actively participated in
various international business development programmes and courses aimed at
enhancing trade concentration, confectionery management, customer management
best practices, field sales management, marketing and sales excellence and personal
effectiveness.
He was appointed as the Sales Director of the Group on 1 November 2022,
assuming responsibility over sales and distribution operations across all retail
channels.
He has no conflict of interest with the Group, nor any family relationship with any
director, key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not
been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years, nor was he subjected to
any public sanctions or penalties by relevant regulatory bodies during FY2024.
Edmund Tan graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of
Melbourne in 2004. Upon graduation, Edmund joined Macquarie Capital focusing on
mergers and acquisition and capital raising in the natural resources sector. In 2010,
Edmund was transferred to Macquarie Capital’s Southeast Asian Equity Capital
Market team, where he was responsible for leading the day-to-day execution for
various initial public offering and capital raises in the region.
Edmund Tan co-founded Inside Scoop with its first store in Bangsar in December
2013, growing it to 50 outlets as of July 2024. Edmund is passionate about all things
ice cream and is currently leading Farm Fresh’s effort into the Consumer Packaged
Ice Cream space.
EDMUND TAN
Ice Cream Division Director
1 June 2023
Date of Appointment:
Board of Directors
Loi Tuan Ee
Group Managing Director &
Group Chief Executive Officer
Brand
Management
Product
Development
Azmi Bin Zainal
Group Chief
Operating Officer
Loi Tuan Kin
Plant Operations
Director
Ding Chai Thong
Sales Director
Micro-Entrepreneur
Muadzam Shah
Plant
Taiping Plant
Larkin Plant
Modern Trade
Distributors
General Trade
HORECA
L e a d e r s h i p
Farm Fresh Berhad
96
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
Edmund Tan
Ice Cream Division
Director
CPG Ice Cream
Premium Scoop
Ice Cream
Adam Graeme
Pretty
Managing Director of
the Australian
Business
Production/
Operations
Sales & Marketing
Jacob a/I Mathan
Farm Director
Muadzam Shah Farm
Taiping Farm
Mawai Farm
Desaru Farm
UPM Farm
Mohd Khairul Bin
Mat Hassan
Group Chief Financial
Officer
Finance
Human Resource
Corporate Finance/
Strategy
IT & ERP
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 97
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
I AM PLEASED TO PRESENT FARM
FRESH BERHAD’S CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
STATEMENT FOR THE FINANCIAL
YEAR ENDING 31 MARCH 2024
(FY2024). THIS STATEMENT AND THE
ACCOMPANYING REPORTS DETAIL
OUR COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH TO
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND THE
PRACTICES WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED
TO PROTECT THE INTERESTS OF
THE GROUP, SHAREHOLDERS AND
STAKEHOLDERS.
Achieving our ambitious growth, expansion and
diversification goals requires strong and principled
leadership to ensure outstanding performance and long-
term sustainability. Transparency, accountability and ethical
business conduct remain fundamental priorities that
underscore our commitment to good governance, and we
continue to leverage upon established communication
channels to access stakeholder concerns and feedback
that may guide improvements to our practices.
Our adherence to the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (MCCG) 2021 recommendations further
reinforces this commitment to ethical conduct, ensuring we
adopt globally recognised principles and practices that
strengthen the oversight function of our Board of Directors
(Board) and integrate sustainability considerations
throughout our organisation.
In tandem with this, we maintain a comprehensive approach
to risk management to effectively navigate the evolving
business landscape within the dairy value chain. Our
efforts are led by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee (ARMC) and the Internal Audit Department,
which work together with the Board to ensure the
effectiveness of our mitigation strategies and internal
control systems to address any instances of non-
compliance.
In the past two financial years, we have significantly
strengthened our governance framework by implementing
various Group-wide policies that provide comprehensive
guidelines for corporate behaviour expected from all
employees and leadership personnel. These include our Code
of Conduct & Business Ethics (CCBE), Conflict of Interest
Policy, Ethical Trading Policy, Whistle Blowing Policy, Investor
Relations Policy and Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption Policy Non-
Audit Services Policy and Business Continuity Policy.
Farm Fresh Berhad
98
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
“
More recently, we have focused on
enhancing our sustainability reporting
framework to provide greater
disclosures related to ethics and
governance. This year, our sustainability
statement introduced three new
topics, namely ‘Fair & Ethical
Employment’, ‘Anti-Corruption’ and
‘Cyber Security & Data Privacy’, offering
stakeholders more insights into our
governance practices and efforts to
uphold high standards of business
conduct.
Simultaneously, we have continued to
enhance our sustainability efforts
across the environmental and social
spectrum, ensuring our efforts align
with evolving regulatory requirements,
address stakeholders’ expectations
and enable us to contribute positively
to the community. Our commitment
to making meaningful progress has
been formalised through last year’s
annual report aiming for a 5% annual
reduction in our Group-wide emissions
intensity, providing clear goals for our
leadership teams to drive collective
action across our operations.
I have immense confidence in our
Board’s ability to steer the Group
towards both our business and
sustainability goals. Their collective
experience and diverse expertise
remain invaluable, providing critical
oversight and direction as we strive
towards our ambitions.
As we stand on the cusp of regional
expansion into the Philippines and
our impending venture into new
product categories such as consumer
packaged ice cream, chocolate malt
and butter, we remain committed to
upholding stringent governance and
leadership across our growing
operational footprint. By doing so, we
will safeguard the longevity of our
business and support our efforts to
generate ever-growing value for all
stakeholders.
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat
Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji
Megat Khas
Chairman
IN THE PAST TWO FINANCIAL YEARS,
WE HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY STRENGTHENED
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BY
IMPLEMENTING VARIOUS GROUP-WIDE
POLICIES THAT PROVIDE COMPREHENSIVE
GUIDELINES FOR CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR
EXPECTED FROM ALL EMPLOYEES AND
LEADERSHIP PERSONNEL.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 99
A
PRINCIPLE
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board is key in establishing the Group’s strategic direction, emphasising sustainable value creation for stakeholders
and protecting the Group’s interests. By adhering to good governance and ethical conduct, the Board ensures the Group
remains aligned with its values and principles while pursuing its goals and ambitions.
The corporate governance framework of the Farm Fresh Group is structured as follows:
THEBOARDOFDIRECTORSOFFARMFRESHBERHADRECOGNISESTHECRITICALIMPORTANCEOFUPHOLDINGROBUST
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES TO SAFEGUARD STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS AND ENHANCE SHAREHOLDER
VALUE. IN FULFILLING ITS COMMITMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES, THE BOARD PRIORITISES TRANSPARENCY,
ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTEGRITY AS FUNDAMENTAL GUIDING PILLARS.
Simultaneously, the Group is dedicated to integrating
robust ESG practices and sustainability principles into our
operations. A detailed analysis of our sustainability initiatives
and practices is presented in the Sustainability Statement
within this Integrated Annual Report. This statement
evaluates our performance on all ESG issues deemed
material to our business and highlights our commitment to
supporting relevant United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs).
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement adheres
to the Main Market Listing Requirements (Listing
Requirements) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa
Malaysia) and aligns with the principles outlined in the
MCCG 2021.
Corporate Governance Framework
Audit and Risk Management
Committee (“ARMC”)
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (“NRC”)
BOARD
Farm Fresh Berhad
100
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
To ensure effective oversight and accountability, the roles
of Chairman and Group Managing Director & Group Chief
Executive Officer are held by separate individuals,
safeguarding the balanced distribution of power and
authority. The specific responsibilities of each of the above
roles are outlined in the Board Charter, accessible at
https://www.farmfresh.com.my/investorrelations/.
The Board has full and unfettered access to all relevant
information concerning the Group, and can rely on the
support of the Group’s Company Secretary and senior
management to discharge their fiduciary duties effectively.
Notices and meeting papers are provided to all Board
members and Board Committees ahead of scheduled
meetings, allowing sufficient time for comprehensive review
and deliberation on agenda items.
The Board’s leadership is strengthened by the
implementation of several key policies and codes
introduced between 2022 and 2023, namely the:
• Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
• Conflict of Interest Policy
• Ethical Trading Policy
• Whistle Blowing Policy
• Investor Relations Policy
• Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
• Non-Audit Services Policy
• Business Continuity Policy
These documents define and detail the Group’s commitment
to maintaining high standards of corporate governance,
and are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain relevant
and effective. They are accessible at https://www.farmfresh.
com.my/investor-relations/.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board of Farm Fresh currently consists of seven (7)
members, each bringing extensive experience and expertise
across various fields. Four (4) members are Independent
Non-Executive Directors (INEDs), with none of the seven
having previously served as key audit partners for the
Company’s external auditors.
For FY2024, the Board comprises five males and two
females. Recognising the importance of diversity in
leadership, we are committed to improving the gender
balance of our Board by FY2025.
Two key committees, namely the ARMC and the NRC, have
been established to support the Board in fulfilling its
responsibilities. Both Board Committees are chaired by
INEDs who are not the Chairman of the Board. The specific
functions, duties and authorities of each Board Committee
are detailed in their respective Terms of Reference, available
at https://www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
The ARMC reports to the Board on significant issues it has
deliberated and addressed, with the Board retaining
responsibility for overseeing risk management, internal
controls and ensuring all Board Committees effectively
execute their delegated duties. Meanwhile, the NRC, under
the Board’s oversight, has introduced a comprehensive set
of criteria for evaluating all Directors, including Independent
Directors. These criteria guide the Board’s annual
assessment of both new and existing Directors, and
undergo regular review to ensure ongoing relevance.
Moreover, the Board, its committees and each individual
director undergo an annual effectiveness review. In FY2024,
to enhance the objectivity and thoroughness of these
evaluations, the Board has for the second year in a row
engaged professional services firms to develop its Board of
Directors and Board Committees evaluation and Directors
Peer evaluation questionnaire, with more refinements
being made continuously to further improve the board and
board committee performance assessments, peer
evaluation and evaluation on ESG and sustainability matters.
1. Assessment of Independence of INEDs
The NRC conducts an annual comprehensive
assessment of the independence of all the Group’s
INEDs. Transcending mere evaluation of their
qualifications and current engagements, the
assessment also evaluates their ability to act
independently from management and considers
potential conflicts of interest that might affect their
impartial judgement in the Group’s best interests.
The NRC has confirmed that all the Group’s INEDs
have maintained their objectivity and independence.
Each INED has also provided assurance of their
independence to the NRC.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 101
2. Review of Effectiveness of Directors, Board
Committees and Board
The NRC has reviewed the competencies,
contributions and performances of the Group’s
Directors, as well as the effectiveness of all Board
Committees and the Board as a whole.
Based on these assessments, the NRC concluded
that all parties have demonstrated effectiveness in
fulfilling their respective roles and responsibilities.
3. Review of ARMC, External Auditors and
Internal Auditors
As part of its annual processes, the NRC reviews
the independence, composition, skills and expertise,
term of office and overall performance of the
ARMC. Additionally, through the ARMC, the NRC
conducts a comprehensive evaluation of the
objectivity, independence, competence,
professionalism and resource capabilities of the
Group’s external and internal auditors.
The NRC is satisfied with the performance and
capabilities of these parties based on its findings.
4. Review of Directors’ Remuneration
The NRC has reviewed the remuneration of our
Directors, encompassing fees, salaries, benefits-in-
kind and other emoluments. At the NRC’s
recommendation, the Board considers the current
Directors’ fees of RM150,000 for the Chairman and
RM400,000 in total for four other Non-Executive
Directors sufficient to attract and retain high-calibre
Directors.
The proposed total directors’ fees of RM550,000
per annum for the period from 1 April 2024 to the
next Annual General Meeting (AGM) in 2025 will be
presented for shareholders’ approval at the
upcoming 13th AGM.
5. Rotation of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, one-
third of Directors who have served for at least one (1)
year are eligible for re-election at every AGM. Additionally,
all directors are required to retire from office at least
once every three (3) years, as per the Constitution.
During the 12th AGM, two Directors, Loi Tuan Ee and
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin bin Datuk Seri
Dr Haji Megat Khas, stood for re-election. Their
resolutions were carried and they have maintained their
position on the Board.
At the forthcoming 13th AGM, one Director, Dato’ Dr.
Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam, is standing for
re-election and has expressed his intention to seek re-
election. The Board has carefully assessed the suitability,
effectiveness and attendance of Dato’ Dr. Quaza
Nizamuddin at Board and Board Committee meetings
during the year under review. The assessment also
considered other factors such as his directorships on
other public listed and public companies and the
potential for any conflicts of interest with the Group.
Based on these considerations, the Board recommends
his re-election to be approved by shareholders at the
forthcoming 13th AGM. Meanwhile, Sukanta Kumar Dutt
will not be seeking for re-election in the coming 13th
AGM.
Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled
quarterly, with additional meetings convened as necessary.
These meetings adhere to a formal agenda that allows
ample time for discussion and deliberation on pertinent
matters. Chaired by the Board Chairman and Board
Committee Chairpersons, detailed minutes are recorded by
the Company Secretary. Draft minutes are circulated to all
Board and Board Committee members before being
confirmed at the subsequent meeting.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairperson of each
Board Committee preside over their respective meetings,
with detailed minutes recorded by the Company Secretary.
Draft minutes are shared with all Board and Committee
members prior to being confirmed at the next meeting. Each
Director is required to attend at least fifty (50) percent of the
Board meetings held in each financial year.
Farm Fresh Berhad
102
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Name of Director
Financial Year Ended 31/03/2024
Numbers of
Meetings
Attended
BODM
30/05/2023
SBODM
21/06/2023
BODM
26/07/2023
BODM
29/08/2023
BODM
28/11/2023
BODM
27/02/2024
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji
Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk
Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas
Y Y N N Y Y 4/6
Loi Tuan Ee Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin
Bin A. Hassan Nizam
Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
Loi Foon Kion Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
Sukanta Kumar Dutt Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifli Y Y Y Y Y Y 6/6
BODM - Board of Directors Meeting
SBODM - Special Board of Directors Meeting
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 103
Director's Name Training Date of Event
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat
Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji
Megat Khas
MAP - Leading For Impact 5-6 June 2023
Loi Tuan Ee
Fireside chat: Impact of SVB on the current market conditions 13 April 2023
Invest ASEAN Singapore 2023 - ASEAN Reboot: Reimagining the future 20 June 2023
DWI Emas Young Entrepreneurs Festival (Business Conference) 24 June 2023
CEO Workshop by Wilson Ten 1 August 2023
KPKM Visionary workshop for studying the National Food Security Blueprint 4 August 2023
KPI Managers workshop 14 August 2023
SCCCI Singapore China Business Forum 2023 16 August 2023
ASB CEO Fireside chat series: Trespassings - Leadership Lessons from 77 Trains BC
and other Journeys
18 August 2023
Tetra Pak x Farm Fresh Ideation Workshop 21 August 2023
NAWEM ESG Forum 3 October 2023
BFM Event: Roaring into the future 19 October 2023
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Awareness Training 29 March 2024
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin Bin
A. Hassan Nizam
World Veterinary Congress in Taipei, Taiwan (presented a paper) 28-30 April 2023
Seminar Memperkasa SLDN melalui ILB 2023, Everly Hotel Putrajaya 30 May 2023
Webinar on Foot and Mouth Disease Vaccine Isolation & Vaccine Matching in the
South East Asia,
9 June 2023
ICDM Power Talk: Generative AI-An Opportunity or Risk 20 July 2023
ICDM: Finance Essentials for Non-Financial Directors 25 July 2023
MSPTM Mid-Year Seminar; Advancing One Health (presented a paper) 25-26 September 2023
Khazanah Megatrends Forum 2023, Madarin Hotel, Kuala Lumpur 2-3 October 2023
International Conference on Tropical Agriculture (ICTA), Taylor's University, Subang
Jaya (presented a paper)
16-17 October 2023
Federation of Asian Veterinary Congress 2023, Kuching, Sarawak (presented a paper) 2-4 November 2023
IIC Corporate Governance Conference 2022: Security Exchange Commission Malaysia 5 March 2024
DIRECTORS’ TRAINING
All directors have completed the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP) required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(Bursa Malaysia) and assume personal responsibility for continually assessing their training needs to remain informed
about relevant regulatory requirements and evolving business trends.
Concurrently, the Board proactively seeks information on training programmes and workshops offered by Bursa Malaysia
and other training providers, and receives regular updates on new statutory and regulatory requirements.
Throughout FY2024, each Director of the Group actively engaged in various training programmes, seminars, conferences
and forums. Details of their participation in such events are as follows:
Farm Fresh Berhad
104
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Director's Name Training Date of Event
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
ICDM PowerTalk: Generative AI – An Opportunity or Risk 20 July 2023
30% Club Board Mentoring Celebration, Advancing Gender Parity 13 September 2023
Khazanah Megatrends Forum 2023 2 & 3 October 2023
Foray Advisory’s Lunch & Learn – Generative AI 17 October 2023
Russell Reynolds Associates APAC Board Leadership Forum 2023 18 October 2023
ICDM Public Programme: A Delicate Balance – Board & Management Relationship 2 November 2023
Climate Governance Malaysia: Chairperson Masterclass Leading the Change:
Mastering Climate Change as a Chairperson, Session 5: The New Era of Board Duties
16 November 2023
The Securities Commission Malaysia’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with Audit
Committees
27 November 2023
ICDM Advocacy Dialogue & Networking: The Launch of 2024 ASEAN Board Trends
Report & The ASEAN Directors Registry
22 February 2024
ICDM PowerTalk: Future-Proofing Malaysian Businesses: Navigating Cyber-Threats in
the Age of AI
11 March 2024
Farm Fresh Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Awareness Training, conducted by
KPMG
29 March 2024
Loi Foon Kion
ICDM PowerTalk - Advancing Cyber Resilience: Board’s Top 3 Must-Knows 25 May 2023
Long Life Fresh Milk: A New Market Category, Dairy Foods BNP Media 30 June 2023
Food Safety in the Dairy Industry (Systems Thinking), Dairy Foods BNP Media 13 July 2023
ICDM PowerTalk Series – Generative AI - An Opportunity or Risk? 20 July 2023
Nutritional Labelling and Method Selection: Choosing the Best Test for Your Needs,
Food Safety BNP Media
28 July 2023
Khazanah Megatrends Forum 2023 2-3 October 2023
APAC Board Leadership Forum 2023 by Russell Reynolds Associates with ICDM 17-18 October 2023
SIDC Cybersecurity & Data Privacy - The Fight Against Financial Crime 8 November 2023
2023 State of the Dairy Industry, Dairy Foods BNP Media 8 November 2023
ICDM PowerTalk: Climate Change & Carbon Footprint 1 December 2023
Finding the Balance Between Food Safety and Sustainability, Food Safety BNP Media 25 January 2024
AI in Food Safety: Current Applications and Future Possibilities, Food Safety BNP
Media
30 January 2024
ICDM PowerTalk: Future-Proofing Malaysian Businesses: Navigating Cyber-Threats in
the Age of AI
11 March 2024
Maybank Private Wealth Forum - New Perspectives, New Opportunities 11 March 2024
Trends in Product Development, Dairy Food BNP Media 14 March 2024
ICDM Climate Governance 101: A Board's Guide to Effective Oversight 21 March 2024
KPMG Anti-Bribery and Corruption Awareness Training for Farm Fresh Bhd 29 March 2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 105
Director's Name Training Date of Event
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership Training Session 4 1 June 2023
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Training - Promoting Good Governance:
Understanding Anti-Corruption Laws in Malaysia and Beyond
21 June 2023
ICDM Power talk – Generative AI – An Opportunity or Risk? 20 July 2023
Basel Framework and IRB models – Board Refresher 21 August 2023
The Cooler Earth Sustainability Summit 11 August 2023
Awareness Training on Cyber Security 13 September 2023
Khazanah Megatrends Forum 2 & 3 October 2023
Climate Risk, Change & Getting to Net Zero 23 November 2023
Audit Oversight Board Conversation with Audit Committees 27 November 2023
Central Banking in an International Financial System 6 February 2024
Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act
(FATCA)
22 March 2024
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Awareness 29 March 2024
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
Key Provisions & Compliance Requirement Under Companies Act 2016 by Suruhanjaya
Syarikat Malaysia [Online Directors' Training]
27 June 2023
Farm Fresh - Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Awareness Training 29 March 2024
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact (LIP) 12-13 June 2024
Access Global Consumer Conference 6-7 June 2023
Board Continuous Development Programme Series #10 - A Brief on Data & AI 26 October 2023
Sexual Harassment Awareness Session 11 January 2024
Sharing Session on The Future of Cybersecurity with AI 18 June 2024
Farm Fresh Berhad
106
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
REMUNERATION
Recognising the importance of attracting and retaining highly skilled Directors, the Group strives to provide competitive
remuneration packages that typically include a basic salary, allowances, bonuses and other benefits-in-kind. The
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined based on their experience and the scope of their responsibilities.
Directors refrain from participating in discussions and voting on matters concerning their own remuneration packages.
Name/Designation
Directors’ Fee
(Ringgit Malaysia/
RM)
Basic Salary
(RM)
Allowance
(RM)
Other*
(RM)
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat
Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji
Megat Khas
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
150,000 – 7,000 –
Loi Tuan Ee
Non-Independent Executive Director
120,000 245,760 11,519
Loi Foon Kion
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 10,000 –
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
– – – –
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 16,000 –
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 16,000 –
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 15,000 –
Total 550,000 120,000 309,760 11,519
* Includes payments to Malaysia’s Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF), Social Security Organisation (SOCSO) and Employment Insurance System (EIS)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR FY2024
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 107
SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S REMUNERATION FOR FY2024
The remuneration of our top five key senior management members is disclosed below in bands of RM50,000, reflecting
totals that encompass their salary, allowance, bonus, benefits-in-kind and other emoluments.
Key Senior Management Total Remuneration (RM)
Mohd Khairul Bin Mat Hassan 1,300,000 – 1,350,000
Adam Graeme Pretty 1,150,000 – 1,200,000
Ding Chai Thong 900,000 – 990,000
Loi Tuan Kin 700,000 – 750,000
Azmi Bin Zainal 850,000 – 900,000
B
PRINCIPLE
EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The ARMC is chaired by an INED, who is not the Chairman
of the Board, and comprises three INEDs that meet the
independence criteria as outlined in the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia.
The requirements entail that at least one (1) member of
the ARMC must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants or have at least three (3) years’ working
experience and have passed the examinations specified in
Part I of the First Schedule of the Accountants Act, 1967,
or be a member of one (1) of the associations of
accountants specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the
Accountants Act, 1967. In addition, at least one (1) member
of the ARMC must fulfil such other requirements as
prescribed or approved by Bursa Malaysia.
All ARMC members possess financial literacy, extensive
corporate experience and the requisite business skills to
effectively fulfil their duties.
The responsibilities of the ARMC encompass review and
oversight of:
• Risk Management and Internal Control
• Internal Audits
• External Audits
• Audit Reports
• Financial Reporting
• Related Party Transactions
• ESOS Allocations
• Whistle-blowing
A summary of the ARMC’s activities during FY2024 can be
found in the “Audit and Risk Management Committee
Report” section of this report on page 114. Profiles of
ARMC members, meanwhile, are accessible at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
FRAMEWORK
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining
an effective risk management and internal control system,
which undergoes regular reviews to ensure its continued
relevance and effectiveness, and applying the necessary
measures to safeguard the interests of shareholders and
the Group.
The ARMC supports the Board in this role by regularly
reviewing significant risks and assessing their potential
impact on the Group. Based on their findings, the ARMC
provides recommendations for management actions, with
key risk matters escalated to the Board for further attention
and appropriate actions.
Farm Fresh Berhad
108
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
C
PRINCIPLE INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Board prioritises transparency and accountability in its
communications with stakeholders, utilising various
channels to disseminate information about the Group’s
operations, activities and performance. These channels
include the Group’s Integrated Annual Reports, corporate
announcements to Bursa Malaysia and updates made
available on the Company’s corporate website.
During the period under review, the Company engaged
extensively with the investment community, conducting 29
one-on-one and group meetings, as detailed from page 72
of this report. These engagements allowed the Group to
address stakeholder concerns and utilise the feedback
gained to enhance our sustainable value creation efforts.
The Group Managing Director & Group Chief Executive
Officer, along with the Group Chief Financial Officer, serve
as the authorised spokespersons for disclosing material
information to shareholders and stakeholders.
In accordance with Paragraph 15.26(a) of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia, the Directors are
responsible for preparing financial statements that provide
a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position,
performance and cash flows for each financial year. The
Board further ensures the maintenance of accurate
accounting and other records that reflect the Group’s
financial status with reasonable accuracy at any given time.
Our financial statements adhere to the Malaysian
Companies Act (CA) 2016, the Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia and other applicable approved accounting
standards in Malaysia. The ARMC conscientiously reviews
the Group’s quarterly financial results and annual Audited
Financial Statements for accuracy, adequacy and
completeness before seeking Board approval.
For a detailed understanding of our stakeholder
engagement activities and the issues raised, refer to the
“Key Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report from
pages 46 to 49.
CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
The Company ensures that all general meeting notices are
sent to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the general
meeting. This is in line with Practice 13.1 of the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance where the notice to
shareholders should be give at least 28 days in advance of
the general meeting.
Shareholders are provided with ample opportunity and
time during general meetings to express their views and
raise issues related to the Group’s financial performance,
business operations, corporate governance and other
relevant matters. Directors, senior management and
auditors present during these meetings bear responsibility
to respond to any issues raised.
In accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia, the Board has
implemented poll voting for all resolutions listed in the
general meeting notices. At least one (1) independent
scrutineer is appointed to validate the votes cast. The
outcomes of general meetings, including poll voting results,
are announced to Bursa Malaysia on the same day, and
made accessible through the Company’s website at https://
www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/ or via www.
bursamalaysia.com/market_information/announcements/
company_announcement. Summaries of the key matters
discussed at general meetings are also available at https://
www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was
approved by the Board on 25 July 2024.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 109
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board affirms its commitment and overall responsibility
and oversight of the system of internal control and risk
management of Farm Fresh Berhad and its subsidiaries
(the Group).
The Board confirms that there is continuous effort to
enhance the Group’s overall risk management and internal
control processes by pursuing various initiatives that
involve the Group. The Board is supported by the Audit
and Risk Management Committee (ARMC), which reviews
and monitors the Group’s risk exposures and the design
and operating effectiveness of the underlying risk
management and internal controls systems by periodically
reviewing the following:
• the principal business risks and control measures to
mitigate or reduce such risks;
• the strengths and weaknesses of the overall internal
controls system and action plans to address the risk of
weaknesses or to improve the assessment process;
• the audit review outcomes of internal processes and
operations reported by the Internal Audit Department,
including action plans to address identified control
weaknesses, the monitoring of implementation of its
recommendations and status updates; and
• the reports by the external auditors of any control
issues identified during their work.
The ARMC reports to the Board on significant issues that
it has deliberated and dealt with. The Board remains
responsible for the governance of risk management and
internal control, and for the actions of all Board Committees
with respect to the execution of its delegated oversight
responsibilities.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
Management is accountable to the Board and is responsible
for effective implementation of risk management and
control mechanisms, including:
• providing executive leadership in the management of
risk within their work responsibilities
• identifying and evaluating risks faced by the Group
• formulating and implementing internal control and risk
management actions and mechanisms
• implementing remedial actions in response to significant
risks, and to address compliance and control issues
• the overall achievement of business objectives
and strategies
Management is committed to operating a sound system of
internal control and the internal control system will continue
to be reviewed, updated, and improved upon in line with
changes in the operating environment. Key to this is to
identify significant threats and opportunities, evaluate the
risk profile and drive mitigation strategies on a regular
basis in the course of business. All heads of departments,
managers and senior executives are required to assume
responsibility for risk management within their areas of
responsibility and ensure that risk management is
embedded in day-to-day business and decision-making
processes.
The Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial
Officer have provided assurance to the Board that the
Group’s risk management and internal control systems are
operating adequately and effectively.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has put in place an Enterprise Risk Management
(“ERM”) framework, in accordance with the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance, to ensure that there is a
process of identifying, evaluating, and managing significant
business risk exposure. The Group’s ERM framework aims
to implement relevant controls to manage the principal
risks of the business. Risk factors are rated as High,
Medium or Low risk. The rating process takes account of
‘likelihood’ and ‘impact’, with both financial and non-
financial impact being considered.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group has an Internal Audit Department to support
the ARMC and the Board. The Internal Audit Department
conducts an audit on the Group’s operations as mandated
by the ARMC based on the approved annual audit plan.
The Internal Audit function evaluates the adequacy and
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
Furthermore, the Internal Audit function checks and
monitors compliance to ensure adherence to the Group’s
policies and procedures.
Relevant findings with respect to non-compliance are
highlighted to the Board via the ARMC, with corrective
measures identified for the onward action of Management.
The Internal Audit Department reports the audit findings
and management action plans to the ARMC on a
quarterly basis.
Farm Fresh Berhad
110
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
PRINCIPAL RISKS
Principal Risks Description Key Mitigation Measures
Supply Chain
Disruption
Disruptions in the supply
chain, such as transportation
issues, raw materials
shortages, or production,
can impact the company’s
ability to fulfil orders and
meet customer demand.
• Strengthening supplier relationships and appropriately
diversifying the supplier base to reduce dependency on single
sources of supply.
• Improving visibility by implementing tracking and monitoring
systems to identify potential disruptions early and take proactive
measures as well as contingency planning to mitigate the
impact.
• Maintaining adequate inventory levels and safety stock to buffer
against potential disruptions and ensure continuity of supply,
particularly for essential products with high demand.
• Leveraging technology and data analytics to optimise supply
chain operations and improve forecasting accuracy.
Financial and
Commodity
Price Risk
Exposure to fluctuation of
foreign currency exchange
rates, commodity price and
credit risks.
• Utilising financial derivatives such as forward contracts, range
forwards and options to limit exchange rates fluctuation risks.
• Limit exposure to commodity prices fluctuations via both
physical hedging by purchasing forward at a fixed price and
financial hedging via futures and/or swaps.
• Conducting credit assessments and due diligence on
counterparties to evaluate their creditworthiness and assessing
the likelihood of default on their financial obligations.
• Optimising production processes to improve efficiency and
reduce costs.
Product Quality
and Safety Risk
Major product quality and
safety issues may lead to
customer health issues,
loss of brand reputation
and reduced consumers’
trust to the Group.
• Constantly improving product quality and food safety
management programs.
• Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) guidelines.
• Strengthening quality checks on incoming raw materials and
finished goods prior to releasing to market.
• Providing relevant staff with comprehensive product
familiarisation training to promote correct handling of products.
• Production machinery is regularly checked for defects and
quality levels.
Biosecurity Risk Failure to effectively contain
any infections and diseases
from spreading to our dairy
herd may severely deplete
our herd and jeopardise
our operations.
• Strict adherence to scheduled vaccination for Foot and Mouth
Disease (FMD), Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD), and other diseases
with advice, recommendation & support from Department of
Veterinary Services.
• Enforce & strengthen biosecurity control measures such as foot
and tyre dips at the farm entrance, as well as movement
control in and out of farm.
• Strict adherence to Good Animal Husbandry Practices (GAHP)
that relates to best practices for livestock.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 111
Principal Risks Description Key Mitigation Measures
Livestock
Management
Risk
Poor dairy cow performance
in the tropical dairy
environment resulting from
unfavourable genetics and
poor animal husbandry
practices, which results in
poor milk yields, high
mortality rates and low
fertility/conception rates.
• Use of AFS dairy breed, which combines the genotypes of
temperate Holsteins and tropical Sahiwals resulting in the most
economically viable tropical cattle breed with resilience and
resistance to high humidity and temperatures.
• Dedicated IVF unit to propagate better genetics faster in the
herds.
• Strict adherence to Good Animal Husbandry Practices (GAHP)
that relates to best practices for livestock.
• Continuous improvement of farm infrastructure & ventilation to
focus on better cow comfort and heat abatement for healthier
and happier cows.
• Continuous training of farm staff in keeping up with the latest
developments in animal husbandry and dairy cow health.
Information
Technology Risk
Failure to prevent cyber
security threats (phishing,
scams, ransomware etc.)
will result in operational
disruptions and financial
losses to the Group.
• Farm Fresh Berhad Group IT Policy outlines the SOPs that all
mobile and computing devices that connect to the internal
network have to adhere to, including replacing/changing
passwords, minimum length of password, public wi-fi usage,
anti-virus software etc.
• Periodic penetration test and vulnerability assessments.
• Usage of softwares and solutions to enhance cyber security
protection:
– Backup and recovery solution for emails (Selected/important
user) and other networking applications used.
– Firewall to examine network traffic to block unauthorised
access with security threats for network and information
systems.
– Replication disaster recovery solution for backup of all
servers on premise to the cloud and enables recovery from
catastrophies quickly with minimal downtime.
– Ransomware, data transfer and web browsing protection.
– Specific defender software for protection against advanced
cyberattack, any malwares, phishing, spam and business
email compromise which scans OneDrive, Teams, SharePoint
and office applications.
• Training on cyber security threats/awareness
Farm Fresh Berhad
112
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
Statement On Risk Management
And Internal Controls
INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESS AND STRUCTURE
• Board and Management Committees
Board Committees such as the Audit and Risk
Management Committee and the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee have been set up by the
Board and delegated with specific responsibilities which
are all governed by clearly defined terms of reference
and authority for areas within their scope. The Board
Charter sets out the responsibilities and functions of
the Board and the supporting Board Committee.
• Organisation Structure
The Group has a defined organisational structure with
clear lines of responsibility, authority and accountability
which enable the Management to act in the best
interest of the shareholders.
• Policies and Procedures
There is extensive documentation of policies, procedures
and guidelines in the form of operational manuals on
key business processes and supporting functions which
include financial reporting, human capital, procurement
and information technology systems. These policies and
manuals are reviewed and revised periodically to meet
changing business, operational and statutory reporting
needs.
• Limits of Authority (“LOA”)
Major investments and capital expenditure are reviewed
and approved by the Board. All other procurements
and payments are approved by the various levels of
Management in accordance with their authorisation
limits. The LOA is reviewed and updated periodically to
reflect any changes.
• System and Information Security
The Group Information Technology Department is
responsible for continuously monitoring and resolving
security threats to the Company both internally and
externally. The Group has an IT Security Policy that
regulates the use of information technology resources
and system data.
• Compliance to Regulatory Requirement
The Group has maintained the effectiveness of its
internal control function and remains in compliance
with the requirements such as MACC Anti Bribery Act.
• Reporting and Review
The Group is equipped with computerised systems that
are capable to capture, compile and analyse data for
management decision-making purposes. Monthly
management reports containing financial results, ratio
analysis and operational performance indicators are
reviewed by the Management and Senior Management
while the quarterly report on consolidated results are
submitted for the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and the Board’s attention.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL
AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the
external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control. Their limited assurance
review was performed in accordance with Audit and
Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form an
opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control systems of the Group.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
was approved by the Board on 25th July 2024.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 113
THE BOARD IS PLEASED TO DISCLOSE THE GROUP’S AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR
FY2024, OUTLINING THE ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN THROUGHOUT THE YEAR TO FULFIL ITS RESPONSIBILITIES.
ARMC MEMBERS
The ARMC is chaired by an INED, distinct from the chairman of the Board, and comprises three (3) members. All members
are INEDs that fulfil the “independence” criteria stipulated in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia.
ARMC MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
In FY2024, the ARMC convened a total of five (5) meetings. Details of meeting dates and attendance by each member
are as follows:
Name of Director
Financial Year Ended 31/03/2024 Numbers of
Meetings
Attended
29/05/2023 24/07/2023 22/08/2023 27/11/2023 26/02/2024
Sukanta Kumar Dutt Y Y Y Y Y 5/5
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam
Y Y Y Y Y 5/5
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng Y Y Y Y Y 5/5
To ensure informed deliberations and enhance decision-making, invitations are extended to other Board members,
members of the Group’s management team, external auditors and the Group’s Company Secretary to attend meetings
as deemed relevant or necessary.
Members Position
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Farm Fresh Berhad
114
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
SUMMARY OF ARMC ACTIVITIES
The functions, duties and responsibilities of the ARMC has been defined in its terms of reference and made available at
https://www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/. The ARMC undertook the following activities during FY2024 in
discharging its responsibilities:
1. Risk Management and Internal Control
• Engaged in discussions with our internal and external auditors on internal control, risks and audit matters.
2. Internal Audit
• Reviewed the annual internal audit deliverable plans for 2024.
• Reviewed internal audit findings reported quarterly and monitoring status of recommendations by internal auditors.
3. External Audit
• Reviewed audit plans, materiality and key audit risks presented by external auditors for FY2024.
• Reviewed review matters reported on a quarterly basis based on the quarterly reviews and other audit matters
highlighted by the external auditors.
4. Financial Reports
• Reviewed interim financial reports and audited accounts, making recommendations to the Board for approval.
5. Related Party Transactions
• Reviewed related party transactions and ensured compliances with Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market Listing
Requirements and Companies Act 2016.
6. ESOS
• Verified that allocation of options pursuant to FFB’s employees’ share option scheme (“ESOS”) complies with the
criteria set for allocation.
7. Whistle-blowing
• Reviewed anonymous complaint sent via the whistle-blowing service.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group’s Internal Audit Department, reporting directly to the ARMC, conducts audits on the Group’s operations to
provide independent assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s governance and internal control
processes.
Following audits conducted during FY2024, recommendations were developed and shared with management for further
action. These findings and recommendations were also highlighted to the ARMC. The Internal Audit Department then
monitored the management’s responses to ensure appropriate actions were taken, with the implementation status of
recommendations subsequently reported to the Board.
This Audit and Risk Committee Report was prepared in accordance with the Board’s resolution on 25 July 2024.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 115
THE BOARD PRESENTS THE GROUP’S NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR FY2024,
OUTLINING THE GROUP’S APPROACH FOR NOMINATING AND REMUNERATING BOARD MEMBERS AND SUMMARISING
THE ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
THE NRC COMMITTEE
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) is responsible for overseeing the nomination and remuneration of
Board members at Farm Fresh Berhad.
The NRC supports the Board in several key areas, including:
• Nominating new directors
• Reviewing the Board’s structure, size and composition (including skills, knowledge, independence and diversity)
• Assessing the effectiveness of the Board and its committees
• Evaluating the performance of individual directors; and
• Recommending remuneration policies for directors and senior management.
Chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director who is not the Chairman of the Board, the NRC comprises five
members, all of whom are non-executive directors. A majority of the members are Independent Non-Executive Directors
(INED) who meet the “independence” requirements outlined in Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia.
Farm Fresh Berhad
116
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
NRC MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
In FY2024, the NRC convened a total of three (3) meetings. Details of meeting dates and attendance by each member
are as follows:
Name of Director
Financial Year Ended 31/03/2024 Numbers of
Meetings
Attended
26/07/2023 21/09/2023 27/02/2024
Dato’ Dr Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam Y Y Y 3/3
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng Y Y Y 3/3
Loi Foon Kion Y Y Y 3/3
Sukanta Kumar Dutt Y Y Y 3/3
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifli Y Y Y 3/3
To facilitate informed deliberations and decision-making, invitations are extended to other Board members, members of
the Group’s management team, external auditors and the Group’s Company Secretary to attend meetings as deemed
relevant or necessary.
SUMMARY OF NRC ACTIVITIES
The functions, duties and responsibilities of the NRC are defined in its terms of reference and made available at https://
www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/. The NRC undertook the following activities during FY2024 in discharging its
responsibilities:
1. Nomination Matters
• Noted the Directors that were retiring pursuant to the Constitution of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
2. Remuneration Matters
• Recommended Directors’ fees for FY2024 and FY2025.
• Recommended the benefits payable to the non-executive Chairman and non-executive Directors.
3. Other Matters
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption of Board evaluation forms for the conduct of annual
assessments of the effectiveness of the individual directors/key officers.
• Reviewed the recommended revisions to be made to the Board Charter to the Board of Directors.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 117
1. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The total amount paid and payable to our external auditors and their affiliate corporations for audit and non-audit
services rendered to the Group for FY2024 is as follows:
Type of Services/External Auditors
Fees (RM’000)
Company Group
Audit Fees KPMG PLT (recurring) 120 383
KPMG PLT (non-recurring) 82 102
Member firm of KPMG International Limited – 37
Other Auditor – 396
Total Audit Fees 202 918
Non-Audit Fees KPMG PLT1 258 259
Local Affiliates of KPMG PLT2 365 492
Other Auditor3 – 161
Total Non-Audit Fees 623 912
Notes:
1. Reviews of interim financial information, agreed upon procedures and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control.
2. Tax services, transfer pricing and financial due diligence.
3. Tax services
2. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There were no material contracts entered into by or subsisting between the Group and/or its subsidiaries involving
Directors’ and major shareholders’ interests during FY2024
3. ESOS
Pursuant to the ESOS implemented by the Group effective 21 March 2022, the movements in outstanding options
offered to take up unissued ordinary shares, along with the exercise price, is as follows:
Date of Offer
Number of Options (‘000)
Exercise
Price
At
1 April 2023 Granted Exercised
At 31
March 2024
First Grant 21 March 2022 RM1.35 22,034 – (523) 21,511
Second Grant 11 May 2023 RM1.46 – 2,171 – 2,171
Farm Fresh Berhad
118
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
4. Utilisation of Initial Public Offering (IPO) Proceeds
Following the Group’s listing on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia on 22 March 2022, we have utilised and
anticipate further utilisation of the gross proceeds from our public issue, totalling RM301.0 million, as outlined below:
Details of
Use of Proceeds
Estimated
Timeframe
for Use of
Proceeds
Proposed
Utilisation as
Disclosed in
IPO
Prospectus
(RM‘000)
Variation
(RM‘000)
Proposed
Utilisation as
Varied by
15.02.2024
(RM‘000)
Actual
Utilisation to
31.03.2024
(RM‘000)
1. Capital Expenditure of
our Group
– Establishment of a
new manufacturing
hub, a new dairy
farm and
integrated
processing facility
in Malaysia
Within 24
months
140,000 (8,763) 131,237 (19,843)
– Expansion of our
production facility
in Australia
Within 18
months
60,000 (55,149) 4,851 (11,301)
– Regional expansion
outside of Malaysia
Within 24
months
40,000 – 40,000 (22,733)
2. Working Capital Within 12
months
40,789 – 40,789 (40,789)
3. Estimated Listing
Expenses
Within 3
months
20,200 – 20,200 (18,982)
4. Proposed Acquisition
of The Inside Scoop
Sdn Bhd (TISSB)
On the date of
completion of
the SSA and
SPA (as
defined herein)
– 63,912 63,912 (63,912)
Total 300,989 300,989 (177,560)
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 119
Farm Fresh’s Board is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the annual financial statements of the Group. In
compliance with the CA 2016 and the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia, the financial statements for FY2024 have
been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the CA 2016. The Board ensures that proper accounting records are maintained to
reflect the financial position of the Group with reasonable accuracy.
The Board declares that these financial statements have been prepared using appropriate accounting policies, applied
consistently and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates. Additionally, the Board affirms that the
financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at the end of FY2024, and of the
Group’s performance and cash flows for the financial year.
Farm Fresh Berhad
120
O u r G o v e r n a n c e
STATEMENT OF BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Farm Fresh Berhad
120
The Board assumes leadership, due care and fiduciary duties as mandated by the Constitution of the Company, the CA
2016, the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia, the MCCG 2021, the Board Charter and other relevant laws, rules and
regulatory guidelines. In discharging its duties and responsibilities, the Board:
a) Sets corporate values and promotes a culture of good corporate governance within the Group, reinforcing ethical,
prudent and professional behaviour, and ensuring obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are met;
b) Reviews, challenges and decides on proposals put forward by management, and monitors their implementation;
c) Reviews and oversees the implementation of the Group’s strategic business plan to ensure it supports long-term
value creation and promotes sustainability, with due consideration provided to economic, environmental and social
factors;
d) Oversees the conduct of the Group’s business and operations to ensure effective management;
e) Reviews and ensures the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal controls and management systems, including
compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules, directives and guidelines;
f) Identifies principal risks of the Group’s business and recognises that business decisions involve the undertaking of
appropriate risks;
g) Sets the risk appetite within which the management is expected to operate and ensures the establishment of an
appropriate risk management framework to identify, analyse, evaluate, manage and monitor significant financial and
non-financial risks;
h) Ensures that all Board and management team members are of sufficient calibre;
i) Ensures the Company has instituted appropriate corporate disclosure procedures for effective communication with
shareholders and other stakeholders;
j) Ensures all Board members understand financial statements and can form a view on the information presented; and
k) Ensures the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 121
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 121
STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY
GUIDED BY OUR VISION TO BE A SUSTAINABLE, HONEST AND CONSUMER-CENTRIC FOOD COMPANY,
WE HAVE DEEPLY INGRAINED ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) PRINCIPLES INTO
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. OUR HOLISTIC APPROACH AIMS TO ENSURE LASTING BENEFITS FOR OUR
LOCAL COMMUNITIES, STAKEHOLDERS AND PLANET, WHILE FORTIFYING OUR RESILIENCE, LONGEVITY
AND REPUTATION.
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Farm Fresh Berhad
122
In undertaking our primary mission to provide nutritious dairy and plant-based products, we remain committed
to minimising our environmental footprint through sustainable farming and processing methods. We are
continuously enhancing our practices to conserve natural resources, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
champion biodiversity, exemplified by our deployment of eco-friendly farming methods and close monitoring of
our carbon footprint.
As a home grown company, we are dedicated to sharing the value we generate with local communities, actively
prioritising locals for job opportunities, empowering our partner farmers with essential skills and knowledge, and
supporting rural or economically disadvantaged micro-entrepreneurs to drive collective progress across the value
chain. This commitment to driving positive social impact is also reflected in the training and educational
programmes we regularly conduct, both for our workforce as well as for the larger community through our youth
outreach and corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes.
Recognising the importance of rigorous governance in achieving our sustainability ambitions, we continue to
uphold the highest standards of accountability and transparency in our operations, led by a robust framework
that prioritises ethical conduct, regulatory compliance and responsible decision-making.
These collective efforts underscore our belief that the success of our business should go hand in hand with
positive societal and environmental impacts, which ultimately safeguards our ability to deliver sustainable, long-
term benefits to all of our diverse stakeholders.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 123
This statement was prepared in accordance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements
and in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our sustainability practices also align with specific
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), and further encompass the following key principles:
RESTATEMENTS OF INFORMATION
There are no restatements of information or performance data from previous statements.
REPORTING PERIOD AND CYCLE
This statement details our sustainability performance for the financial year ending 31 March
2024 (FY2024), unless otherwise specified.
MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
The Group is not currently a member of any industry-relevant associations.
ASSURANCE
We have engaged SIRIM QAS International to perform an independent verification and provide assurance
on the Sustainability Statement. This verification provides assurance to Farm Fresh and its stakeholders
on the accuracy and reliability of the information presented in the Sustainability Statement. Refer to the
Independence Assurance Statement by SIRIM from pages 177 to 179. For our GHG emissions reporting,
we engaged Eco-Ideal Consulting Sdn Bhd, an independent third-party firm, to conduct a Group-wide
carbon footprint inventory.
SCOPE & BOUNDARY
This statement covers all subsidiaries of the Group, with a primary focus on our Malaysian
operations, which represents the majority of our business footprint.
Accuracy
Reporting information
that is correct and
sufficiently detailed for
stakeholders to assess
our impacts
Completeness
Reporting on all relevant
topics to enable a complete
assessment of our
performance
Balance
Providing an unbiased and
fair representation of our
positive and negative
impacts
Sustainability Context
Disclosing information
about our impacts in the
wider context of
sustainable development
Comparability
Enabling an analysis of
the changes in our
impacts over time and
in relation to other
organisations
Verifiability
Managing our data and
information in a manner
that enables examination
and verification
Clarity
Presenting information in a
manner that is
understandable and
accessible
Timeliness
Conveying information
regularly and in time for
stakeholders to make
informed decisions
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
Farm Fresh Berhad
124
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
418.56 million ℓ
of Farm Dairy Effluent
(FDE) recycled and
removed from waste
discharge
33.6%
turnover from products
using fully recyclable,
sustainably sourced
packaging
100%
of our completed farms
in Malaysia are Certified
Humane® accredited
146,730 tonnes
of solid waste recycled and
r e m o v e d f r o m w a s t e
discharge
27%
lower carbon emissions
intensity of our Malaysian
farms compared to the
average Asian dairy farm
375,500
plastic bottles, equivalent to
18,700 kg of plastic, avoided
via our Milk on Tap initiative
67%
of our total workforce across
farms and processing
facilities recruited from rural
communities in Malaysia
68%
of our total procurement
spend by Farm Fresh
Malaysia was spent on local
suppliers
1,486,520 kg
of chemical fertiliser
removed from our cycle
40%
lower carbon emissions
intensity of our Australian
farms compared to the
average Oceanic dairy farm
RM47.2 million
in gross income earned
by stockists and dealers
under our home dealer
network
623.4 million ℓ
of municipal water saved
t h r o u g h r a i n w a t e r
harvesting and tube well
pumping
0.48 tCO
2
eq
in Group-wide carbon
emissions intensity per
tonne of milk
RM2.7 million
in income generated for
our partner farmers
FY2023: 336.7 million ℓ
FY2023: 33.5%
FY2023: 88,330 tonnes FY2023: 1,748,730 kg
FY2023: RM45.4 million
FY2023: 72%
FY2023: RM1.7 million
FY2023: 500.5 million ℓ
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 125
Our sustainability efforts revolve around the four core themes of Better Dairy, Healthier Planet, Stronger Communities
and Responsible Governance. Forming the bedrock of our Group-wide sustainability practices, these pillars categorise the
key sustainability topics that guide the disclosures in this statement.
We have further harmonised these pillars with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), echoing
the principles outlined in the Dairy Declaration of Rotterdam, which recognises the UN SDGs as the overarching
framework for the dairy industry’s contribution to sustainable development by 2030.
BETTER
DAIRY
STRONGER
COMMUNITIES
HEALTHIER
PLANET
RESPONSIBLE
GOVERNANCE
Animal Health &
Welfare
Food Safety &
Quality
Circular Practices
Energy & Emissions
Sustainable
Packaging
Responsible Water
Stewardship
Local Economy
Contribution
Community
Development
Employee Health,
Safety & Well-being
Fair & Ethical
Employment
Anti-Corruption
Cyber Security &
Data Privacy
OUR CORE SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
Farm Fresh Berhad
126
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Stakeholder Group Their Expectations Mode and Frequency of Engagement
Customers
High-quality, safe and nutritious products that are
competitively priced, ethically sourced and tailored to
their dietary needs and taste preferences.
O Corporate website
O Advertising campaigns (both above-the-
line and below-the-line)
O Social media platforms
P Customer surveys and focus groups
P Face-to-face interactions (both at
roadshows and on-ground marketing
events)
Distributors
Clear, transparent and updated information on our
product range, distribution areas and resale prices,
alongside business development and sales support
to stockists and dealers enrolled in our home dealer
programme.
P Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
P Circulars and email communication
P Visits and assessments
P Distributor training courses
Employees
Fair compensation, a safe, non-discriminatory and
respectful working environment, training support,
career development opportunities and leadership
engagement.
P Circulars and email communication
P Employee town halls
P Training courses
SA Team-building events
A Employee appraisals
Governments &
Regulators
Compliance with food safety, health and nutrition
standards, as well as regulations and laws
concerning the environment, labour and
sustainability, while contributing to national
development through community outreach and
knowledge transfer initiatives.
O Email communication
O Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
P Seminars, training sessions and dialogues
P On-site inspections and audits
A Integrated Annual Reports
Investors &
Shareholders
Securing sustainable and profitable long-term growth
while upholding a stellar reputation of ethical and
responsible business practices.
O Investor Relations website
P Email communication
P One-on-one meetings
P Investor briefings
P Site visits
P Quarterly financial results briefings
A Annual General Meetings
A Integrated Annual Reports
Local
Communities
Distribution of socioeconomic benefits through
employment opportunities, support for local
suppliers, adoption of environmentally sustainable
practices, active community engagement, educational
initiatives and charitable contributions.
O Community initiatives and outreach
programmes
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Visits to local communities
Suppliers
Ensuring transparency and fairness in our
procurement systems, preserving strict anti-bribery
and anti-corruption practices, and providing support
to local business ecosystems.
O Email communication
P Face-to-face interactions and phone calls
P Supplier visits and assessments
To ensure our sustainability efforts are comprehensive, inclusive and aligned with the expectations and needs of those
impacted by our activities, we prioritise regular, meaningful stakeholder engagement. This continuous dialogue allows us
to understand the diverse perspectives and concerns of our stakeholders, from employees and customers to local
communities and distributors.
Armed with their feedback, we can identify and prioritise the sustainability issues that matter most to them, ensuring a
targeted and effective approach to long-term value creation for both our business and the communities we serve.
O = Ongoing | P = Periodically | SA = Semi-Annually | A = Annually
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 127
Our materiality assessments are integral to our sustainability and risk management strategy, enabling us to identify and
prioritise the most significant environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues affecting our operations and stakeholders.
In determining these matters, we consider the priorities and expectations of our stakeholders, alongside external factors
with the highest potential to influence our value creation, operational stability and environmental impact. We also consider
sector-specific risk factors and those unique to our business, with key risks regularly reviewed by the Audit and Risk
Management Committee (ARMC).
By focusing our resources on these material matters, we enhance the credibility, transparency and value of our
sustainability reporting, facilitating informed decision-making and value creation.
MATERIALITY MATRIX
During FY2024, we updated our list of material topics to better align with the changing sustainability landscape and the
importance of emerging ESG matters to our stakeholders. We have renamed and streamlined several material matters,
while expanding our disclosures with three new topics covering ethics and governance issues: Fair & Ethical Employment,
Anti-Corruption and Cyber Security & Data Privacy.
The materiality matrix below shows the importance of each sustainability issue to both the Group and our stakeholders,
as determined through our latest materiality assessment process, which evaluates impact and stakeholder interest.
Significance to Farm Fresh Berhad
Significance to Stakeholders
Food Safety &
Quality
Producing
Healthy Products
Animal Health &
Welfare
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
Regenerative
Agriculture
Local Economy
Contribution
Youth
Outreach
Employee
Welfare
EMERGING PRIORITY HIGH
PRIORITY
Quality Dairy Stronger Communities Healthier Planet
Sustainable
Packaging
Climate
Action
MATERIALITY DETERMINATION
Farm Fresh Berhad
128
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Material Matter Why It Matters Who It Matters To
BETTER DAIRY
Animal Health &
Welfare
The well-being of our livestock significantly impacts the nutritional
value and safety of our products, which, in turn, affects our
reputation and growth potential.
Food Safety &
Quality
As dairy producers, prioritising health, safety and nutrition in our
products is crucial for maintaining competitiveness and sustainability.
HEALTHIER PLANET
Circular Practices
Adopting circular agricultural practices allows us to produce in
harmony with the natural environment, enhancing product quality
and benefiting local communities.
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
As a farm-based business, we acknowledge our responsibility to
extract and treat water responsibly, minimising our environmental
impact and safeguarding local resources.
Energy &
Emissions
Addressing climate change requires careful management of our
emissions performance and greater use of renewable energy to
reduce our carbon footprint.
Sustainable
Packaging
Sustainable packaging minimises the ecological impact of our
products and empowers customers to make environmentally-
conscious choices.
STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Local Economy
Contribution
Given our farms’ rural and suburban locations with below-average
income, we acknowledge our duty to drive positive change and
improve livelihoods.
Community
Development
By instilling positive lifestyle and nutrition habits in local children
and youth, we can create lasting beneficial behaviours.
Employee Health,
Safety & Well-
being
A supportive, secure and well-equipped work environment enhances
productivity and safeguards our people, our most vital assets.
Fair & Ethical
Employment
Upholding fairness and ethics in the workplace fosters a high-
performance culture aligned with our social responsibilities.
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE
Anti-Corruption
Ethical conduct across the organisation promotes fairness, integrity
and accountability, laying the foundation for long-term value
creation.
Cyber Security &
Data Privacy
Prioritising data privacy and cybersecurity is essential in today’s
digital landscape, ensuring compliance and maintaining stakeholder
trust.
The table below outlines the significance of each of our sustainability material matters and identifies the stakeholders for
whom these matters are of high priority.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY MATERIAL MATTERS
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 129
Our approach to sustainability governance ensures effective oversight and integration of sustainability principles
throughout our operations. At its core, this framework is built on established principles, structures and reporting
mechanisms to facilitate the seamless integration of sustainable practices into our day-to-day activities.
At the apex of our sustainability governance hierarchy sits the Board of Directors (Board), wielding final authority and
holding ultimate responsibility for our sustainability agenda. Tasked with overseeing the integration of ESG matters into
our corporate strategy, the Board strives to balance the interests of various stakeholders while fostering responsible
growth and long-term value creation.
Assisting the Board in its oversight function is the ARMC, which plays a pivotal role in identifying and mitigating
sustainability-related risks. Drawing on the insights from the ARMC, the Board conducts annual assessments of critical
sustainability issues to ensure the alignment and effectiveness of ongoing strategic efforts.
Upon completion of these assessments, designated Key Senior Management take charge of executing relevant initiatives,
relying on operational assistance from relevant members of various departments, divisions and operating entities for the
effective implementation of strategies, before reporting back to the Board on outcomes.
To maintain momentum and ensure alignment with our sustainability goals and roadmap, our Management teams deliver
an annual review of the Group’s sustainability actions to the Board, highlighting the progress made within key sustainability
focus areas.
Underpinning our sustainability governance structure is a series of policies aimed at fostering responsible business
conduct and ethical human rights practices across the Group. Accessible for viewing and download on our corporate
website1, these policies, including our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (CCBE), Conflict of Interest Policy and Ethical
Trading Policy, serve as guiding principles for our workforce, business relationships, strategies and processes.
Supported by the rollout of targeted training modules, we remain dedicated to embedding these policies at every level
of the Group, ensuring their effective implementation and reinforcing our commitment to sustainable practices.
1 https://www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Farm Fresh Berhad
130
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Highest Governance Body
Audit And Risk
Management Committee
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT IN
CHARGE OF SUSTAINABILITY
1. Group Managing Director and
Group Chief Executive Officer
2. Group Chief Financial Officer
3. Group Chief Operating Officer
4. Farm Director
Members of
Individual
Departments/
Divisions/
Operating
Companies
Nomination of
Committee
Members
Approval of
sustainability topics,
based upon risks
identified
Identification of
potential
sustainability
risks for board
consideration
Delegation to relevant Key Senior
Management in charge of
Sustainability
1
3
2
4
Comprising
of
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 131
BETTER
DAIRY
Farm Fresh Berhad
132
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Related
UNSDG
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Investing in the care, comfort and nutrition of our dairy
herd extends beyond regulatory compliance and moral
obligations; it signifies an investment in the lasting
success and resilience of our business. Prioritising the
health and well-being of our cows and their offspring is
vital in safeguarding the quality of our dairy products,
which, in turn, secures the long-term prospects of our
business and reinforces our reputation as a conscientious
dairy leader.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Robust Guidelines and Constant Innovation
All our farms rigorously follow the Group’s Good Animal
Husbandry Practices (GAHP), which provide detailed
guidelines for animal nutrition, healthcare and housing.
These practices, aligned with the Malaysian Good
Agricultural Practices (myGAP) and standards set by the
World Organisation for Animal Health, ensure our farms
uphold the highest animal health and welfare standards.
To stay at the forefront of industry best practices, we
continuously invest in research and development to
improve animal health and welfare methods suited for
tropical climates. This allows us to implement strategies
that ensure the comfort and well-being of our herd while
maximising milk production, yield and longevity. Through
our commitment to sharing these practices with our
partner farmers, we help elevate livestock rearing
standards across the nation.
Optimising Feed Nutrition
We prioritise the optimal nutrition of our entire herd
through a total mixed-ration feeding system, crafting
specific feed formulas tailored to the unique nutritional
requirements of each animal at various stages of their
breeding cycle. As a result, we are able to enhance the
health, productivity and longevity of our cows.
Our feed strategy is exemplified by our conscientious
cultivation of on-site-grown grass, which is tended without
pesticides and enriched through vermicomposting, a
sustainable approach that utilises broken-down animal
waste to fortify our feed while simultaneously reducing
our environmental footprint. Supplemented with a variety
of farm-grown crops, including corn, soybeans and palm
kernel, we ensure a well-balanced, abundant and
nutritious diet for our herd.
Upholding Animal Well-being
Dedicated animal healthcare teams, led by Animal Herd
and Veterinarian Manager and further comprising
veterinarians and animal science graduates, have been
stationed at each of our farms. From assisting with
deliveries to administering medical treatments for sick
animals and conducting routine health checkups, they
guarantee the well-being of every member of the herd
through comprehensive veterinary care.
To ensure optimal cow health and mobility, we give
utmost priority to hoof care, which involves trimming the
hooves twice a year, precisely 60 days before calving and
again 120 days after calving. This meticulous practice
promotes proper weight distribution and prevents hoof
lesions, enabling comfortable movement between milking
parlours, feed bunks and watering areas.
ANIMAL HEALTH & WELFARE
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 133
We take immense pride in our accreditation of Certified
Humane® accreditation from Humane Farm Animal Care
for all our completed farms in Malaysia. As trailblazers in
Asia for attaining this esteemed certification, we remain
steadfast in our commitment to extending this accreditation
to our Taiping and Australian farms in the near future.
Fostering Comfort and Resilience
We have adopted various practices both inside and outside
our barn facilities to actively safeguard the comfort and
welfare of our Australian Friesian-Sahiwal and Holstein
Jersey cows in Malaysia, where they face heightened heat
and humidity stress as non-native breeds.
Our farms have tunnel and ventilated barns designed
specifically to maintain a cool environment and promote
optimal milk production. Additionally, we have installed
soakers in the barns, delivering regular intervals of water
spray to enhance the cows’ comfort. Furthermore, our
cows have access to clean, dry bedded areas where they
can freely eat, drink and relax. Meanwhile, our Australian-
based farms provide outdoor grazing opportunities,
allowing the cows to feed on grass outside their barns.
Besides these environmental adaptations, we employ
strategic animal breeding processes to bolster our herd’s
resilience. Our dedicated in vitro fertilisation (IVF) unit
conducts ongoing research aimed at improving the genetic
makeup of our cows, enabling us to breed animals better
suited to thrive in Malaysia’s tropical climate. By alleviating
the heat and humidity stresses faced by non-native breeds,
we also enhance their feed intake, milk production and
reproductive efficiency, safeguarding the long-term health
and resilience of our herd.
Assessing Biodiversity Risks
We are dedicated to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems
in all our operations and promoting responsible practices
both within our organisation and throughout our supply
chain. Beyond our humane treatment of dairy animals and
regenerative agriculture practices, we collaborate closely
with stakeholders to ensure environmentally and socially
responsible operations at current and prospective sites.
In conducting biodiversity risk assessments, we engage
with relevant stakeholders, including local authorities and
surrounding communities, to identify potential biodiversity
risks associated with our operations. To develop effective
mitigation strategies and minimise impacts, we will work
with external biodiversity experts to support our assessment
and management processes.
Pioneering Cutting-Edge Animal Health and Welfare
To enhance the health and welfare of our herd while contributing towards regional best practices, we engage in strategic
collaborations with veterinary institutions, corporations and research centres. These partnerships help reduce the cost of
herd medical care, shift resources to preventive care, and boost yields through improved animal well-being and
productivity.
Collaborating Partner Collaboration Objective and Intended Long-Term Outcome
Malaysian Agricultural
Research and
Development Institute
(MARDI)
Researching local herbs as a sustainable and organic alternative to veterinary drugs for
controlling the bovine mastitis disease – inflammation of the mammary glands or udder – in
our cows.
Bayer Malaysia Investigating the impact of Catosal™, a source of Vitamin B12 and phosphorus, on milk yield in
our peak- and late-lactation stage cows, aiming to enhance milk productivity, reduce potential
nutritional deficiencies and preserve their strength, health and proper nourishment.
Universiti Putra Malaysia
(UPM)
Identifying correlations between claw trimming, claw health, animal welfare and milk production
to develop customised best practices in claw trimming across our farms.
Better Dairy
Farm Fresh Berhad
134
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
OUR PERFORMANCE
• 100% of our Malaysian farms adhere to the Group’s GAHP.
• 100% of our completed Malaysian farms (Taiping is not fully completed yet) have received the Certified Humane®
accreditation.
• 86.45% of all our farms’ cows have access to tunnel-ventilation barns, representing an increase of 4.17% over
FY2023.
• 100% of all our farms’ cows have access to dry bedded areas, lounging areas, compost and tunnel areas for
relaxation.
LOOKING AHEAD
• We will steadily increase the training provided to our farm staff on hoof care and other animal husbandry
practices.
• We will continue investing in animal health and welfare technologies across all our farms, deepening our
partnerships with veterinary institutions, corporations and research centres to advance practices suited to
tropical climates.
• We will freely and actively share the outcomes of our research and development efforts with the Malaysian
government through the National Dairy Industry Development (NDID) programme, aiming to drive positive
transformation throughout the industry.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 135
W
WHY IT MATTERS
Ensuring the quality and safety of our products is central
to our sustainability agenda and embodies our collective
vision to prioritise consumer well-being. By delivering safe
and high-quality products that are free from harmful
substances and optimised for nutritional benefits, we foster
greater customer loyalty and trust while delivering a
positive impact on local communities.
O OUR ACTIONS AND INITIATIVES
Adopting Top Global Standards across our Integrated
Supply Chain
As a vertically integrated dairy producer, we span from
farming to distribution, which allows us to minimise reliance
on external suppliers, robustly control product quality and
ingredients, and ensure rigorous internal controls across
our operations for product safety. As a result, we are able
to ensure that all our offerings adhere to the highest
standards of food safety and meet stringent quality
requirements.
Our farms and processing facilities in Malaysia and Australia
have all adopted the following top global recognised
standards and systems, with staff members regularly
provided training on best practices to uphold safety and
quality throughout the production process:
• Halal Certification: This globally recognised Malaysian
accreditation certifies that all our products are prepared
using Halal methods.
• Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices (myGAP):
Introduced by the Malaysian Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Security, this comprehensive certification scheme
recognises farms adhering to Good Agricultural Practices
(GAP), ensuring high levels of food safety.
• MS 1514: 2022 Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP): Defined and certified by the Malaysian Ministry
of Health, these standards encapsulate essential
principles of food hygiene and safety in food processing.
• Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points
(HACCP): A management system that controls biological,
chemical and physical hazards across the production
chain, from procurement and production to
manufacturing, distribution and consumption.
• Veterinary Health Marks (VHM): Formulated by the
Department of Veterinary Services under the Malaysian
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, this
management education programme for total quality
management is specific to the livestock industry and
includes codes of practice at all supply chain levels.
FOOD SAFETY & QUALITY
Safety Controls and Practices Frequency
Review of critical control points (CCP) monitoring record and implementation of
corrective actions
Daily
Inspection of cleaning and maintenance activity records Daily
Food Safety team meetings Twice per year or as deemed necessary
Testing of raw materials and finished products Daily
Review of HACCP plan Half-yearly and every time a report is made
Examination of mock recall reports Yearly
Full internal audits Yearly
Management review meetings Yearly and as deemed necessary
The Farm Fresh Food Safety Management System
Building upon the controls established by the HACCP and GMP standards, our internal food safety management system
consists of various key practices to provide sufficient management and oversight of our safety and quality control
processes, as described in the accompanying table:
Better Dairy
Farm Fresh Berhad
136
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
A dedicated team has been established to oversee our
food safety management system. This team includes a
Food Safety Leader, maintenance supervisors, internal
auditors, quality assurance (QA) professionals and
production managers. Operating independently from our
operational teams, they are authorised to implement
additional processes and actions as needed, such as:
• Random product samplings
• Laboratory-based chemical analyses
• Gap analyses of staff training and food safety knowledge
• Evaluations of compliance with national food safety
regulations
• Review of food safety documentation
• Customer complaint reviews
The food safety management team is also responsible for
supervising routine maintenance activities for our existing
equipment, ensuring they function to the highest standards.
Delivering Healthy and Nutritional Products
Our food safety and quality initiatives also extend to the
consideration of consumer health, with our range of fresh
milk products renowned for being free from preservatives
and colourings while being rich in nutrients such as high-
quality protein, vitamins and minerals that are easily
absorbed. We also manufacture Ultra Heat Treatment
(UHT) or ambient varieties with extended shelf lives to
ensure product freshness following distribution beyond
major urban areas.
Conscious of evolving consumer preferences and dietary
needs, we are also growing our portfolio of alternative milk
products and plant-based options. Our strong research
and development team has enabled us to be the first local
player to introduce organic A2 milk, kurma milk, lactose-
free milk, oat milk and almond milk in Malaysia. Also, other
new flavours released during the year, Choco mint and
Riceberry Flavour. Leveraging on our ongoing innovation,
we are on track to further grow our portfolio in this sector
with the launch of a new plant-based yoghurt product later
this year.
We also recently expanded our reach into the growing up
milk segment with the launch of Farm Fresh Grow in
FY2023, which offers pure cow’s milk fortified with essential
vitamins and nutrients crucial for children’s healthy
development. Following strong consumer response, we
have grown our presence in this segment with the launch
of a whole milk powder variant of Farm Fresh Grow in
November 2023, which is similarly free from sugar,
maltodextrin and other unnecessary ingredients.
While maintaining the quality of our products, we are
similarly committed to honest and responsible advertising
and marketing. All promotional materials are reviewed by
designated leadership personnel to ensure they align with
our core values. Our branding and labelling reflect these
principles, and we strive to continuously improve our
marketing practices to effectively communicate the value
and benefits of our products to stakeholders.
Biosecurity Practices
The good health of our herd is crucial for ensuring the
safety of our dairy products. To achieve this, we have
implemented rigorous protocols across all our farms that
align with the guidelines outlined in our GAHP manual and
the myGAP certification, prioritising the health and well-
being of our dairy livestock according to established animal
welfare practices. For more information, refer to the
“Animal Health & Welfare” section of this statement.
As part of these comprehensive measures, all cows at our
Malaysian farms are vaccinated against Foot and Mouth
Disease. Additionally, we proactively monitor global
biosecurity risks to identify potential threats and promptly
introduce further vaccinations as needed.
Oversight and Support of External Supply Chain
Alongside our internal controls, we place emphasis on
managing the quality of externally sourced dairy ingredients.
With the bulk of our external raw materials primarily
sourced from our established satellite network of partner
farmers, we undertake significant efforts to ensure their
alignment with our practices.
These include comprehensive training on our processes
and standards and frequent seminars, alongside the
provision of technical support. By actively transferring our
knowledge to this expanding community, we are empowered
to maintain exceptional nutritional quality standards as we
grow our production capacity and capabilities.
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 137
OUR PERFORMANCE
LOOKING AHEAD
We will strengthen our
collaboration with partner
farmers to ensure the adoption
of GAHP and MyGAP standards
across all farms supplying dairy
to the Group.
We will persist in our research
and development efforts to
innovate and broaden our
assortment of dairy and plant-
based recipes, while seeking
w a y s t o e n h a n c e t h e i r
nutritional and functional
advantages.
We will heighten awareness
and uptake of our products
among children and families,
leveraging our portfolio of
children’s nutrition products,
consisting of Farm Fresh Grow
growing up milk in liquid and
powder format, as well as our
participation in the School Milk
Programme.
100% of our products meet
endorsed nutritional guidelines.
100% of our processing facilities
across Malaysia and Australia are
operated in accordance with the
GMP and HACCP food safety and
quality principles and Dairy Food
Safety Act (Australia).
All our staff in our processing
facilities are trained in GMP and
HACCP food safety practices.
Our efforts to deliver healthy dairy
products were once again
recognised and appreciated by
consumers, as we picked up our
third consecutive Platinum Award
in the Beverage – Dairy category of
the Putra Brand Awards 2023.
We have recorded no product
recalls due to safety reasons since
2014.
Farm Fresh Berhad
138
O u r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y J o u r n e y
Better Dairy
Integrated Annual Repor t 2024 139
