SHARE CAPITAL
RM380.61 million
TOTAL NO. OF ISSUED SHARES
1,857,954,837
OUR INVESTOR RELATIONS PORTAL
We are committed to providing our shareholders and the general public with a comprehensive and transparent
reflection of our ongoing performance via our Investor Relations portal at https://www.farmfresh.com.my/
investor-relations/. The website provides convenient access to our investor communications, corporate info,
annual and quarterly reports, stock information and other various resources for investors.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022 B. FINANCIAL REVIEW
54
INVESTOR RELATIONS
As at 31 March 2022
Now, as economies re-open and trade restrictions are lifted, the investments we have made ensure we are
well placed to further extend our capabilities across new product categories and execute on our regional
expansion plans.
This review of our operations looks at the actions we have taken at each stage of our vertically integrated
value chain, and examines its potential or realised impact on our business.
Against a challenging macroeconomic backdrop exacerbated
by pandemic impacts, we proved the resilience of our
business – moving ahead with new farm openings and
upgrades to our production facilities, launching a range of
new SKUs and expanding our multi-channel distribution
network.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
| 01 | 02 | Section 03 Management Discussion and Analysis | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
55
OPENING OUR TAIPING FARM
FY2022 saw a significant expansion to our total acreage
with the commencement of farm operations at our
Taiping farm, with the new farm adding an additional
828 acres to our total landbank size. Furthermore, we
have added a total of 500 acres of land from the
Pahang State Government which we have agreed to
lease for a 30-year period. This will increase the total
land size at our Muadzam Shah Farm to approximately
1,105 acres which once completed will have a capacity
to house up to 6,000 dairy cows. The addition of our
Taiping farm and additional land in Muadzam Shah
has increased our total farm area to 5,416 acres across
Malaysia and Australia.
In line with our drive towards sustainable dairy farming,
our Taiping farm contains a state-of-the-art 60 bail
rotary milking station, compost bedded tunnel-
ventilated barns, a flood wash waste collection system,
an automated waste collected system and a sustainable
waste to fertiliser management system. It also contains
ground wells and rainwater reservoirs to ensure
adequate water supply while minimising our use of
municipal and surface water. Upon completion, an
on-site processing facility will have the capacity to
produce 20.8 million litres of finished goods annually,
ensuring speed-to-market in the Northern region of
Peninsular Malaysia.
At the date of publishing, the farm houses approximately
1,400 dairy cows, with a total capacity of 3,000 dairy
cows upon full completion.
EXPANDING OUR UPM FARM
During the year in review, we also completed the
planned development of our UPM farm into a full-
fledged domestic tourist attraction – named ‘Farm
Fresh@UPM’ – that educates the public on dairy
farming, the benefits of fresh milk, and our brands.
Capitalising on growing consumer demand for
sustainable edu-tourism, the farm offers a range of
agricultural attractions including tractor rides around
the farm, barrel rides for children, horse and pony
rides, a greenhouse showcasing aquaponic and
hydroponic systems, a green plantation including fresh
picks available for purchase, a mini animal enclosure,
a fighting fish aquarium and a koi pond. Visitors can
also get a first-hand view of our dairy farming processes
through dairy cow milking sessions and farm tours,
while an on-site recycling centre – run in collaboration
with Tetra Pak – will create awareness of effective
recycling habits that can be adopted at homes and
workplaces.
GROWING OUR AUSTRALIAN FARM OPERATIONS
Our Australian farm operations play a key role in
meeting dairy demand within the Malaysian market,
and will function as a regional production hub as we
expand to new markets across Asia.
In FY2023, we have entered into and completed two
land transactions – to sell a 350-acre farm property
and separately, to acquire a 300-acre farm property,
both situated in Kyabram, Victoria. The farm property
sold was the land which we had intended to use to
develop our factory in Australia before we acquired
the Kyabram facility, but as we had already developed
our Kyabram facility, we decided to dispose of the
farm property. We used the proceeds to fund the
acquisition of the new farm, which is strategically
situated near our Kyabram facility and enables us to
absorb all the treated wastewater from our Kyabram
trade waste pond. The farm will be developed into
our breeding farm for Australian Friesian-Sahiwal (AFS)
UPSTREAM
breed development, while also enabling us to expanding
our dairy herd size in Australia and produce more milk
in-house to supply to our Kyabram facility.
FYE
31 March 2021
FYE
31 March 2022
Farms
5 (4 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
6 (5 in Malaysia,
1 in Australia)
Total
Acreage
4,088 acres 5,416 acres
Total Dairy
Herd
Capacity
8,250 9,650
Total Dairy
Herd Size
7,922 8,938
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022 C. OPERATIONAL REVIEW
56
FARMING
EXPANDING OUR PRODUCTION CAPACITY
With a view to penetrating regional markets in the
medium-term, we have been actively expanding our
production capacity through strategic investments in
both Malaysia and Australia.
Our Kyabram processing facility currently houses our
raw milk processing lines, which commenced operations
in October 2020, and processes raw milk from our
Australian Greater Shepparton farm and milk purchased
from third party farmers in Australia to be used by
our operations in Malaysia. We have invested in the
latest technology including bactofuge, homogenisation,
pasteurisation and reverse osmosis to ensure that high
quality milk ingredients can be produced without any
high heat treatment, thus retaining the flavour quality
of fresh milk. Through continuous upgrades to
machinery, it possesses a total production capacity of
MIDSTREAM
84 million litres of processed milk annually. Looking
forward, a planned Phase 2 expansion of the facility,
due to be completed in Q2 2023, will involve the
installation of additional filling and packaging lines,
enabling the production of UHT and Extended Shelf
Life (ESL) milk for exports to the Asia-Pacific region.
To meet demand for fresh milk, we have made progress
on plans to expand our production capacity within
Malaysia. Two new processing facilities based in our
UPM and Taiping farms respectively will be operational
in 2022, providing an additional 24.1 million litres in
production capacity upon completion. Meanwhile, with
the installation of new filing and packaging lines within
our existing processing facilities, we have increased
our production capacity at our Larkin facility and
Muadzam Shah facility by 10.2 million litres and
57
| 01 | 02 | Section 03 Management Discussion and Analysis | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
MANUFACTURING
INTRODUCING AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGY
In an increasingly competitive global dairy market,
new entrants are gaining an advantage by adopting
automation technologies that lower the cost of
production and maximise margins.
With the launch of new processing facilities and the
upgrading of existing ones, we have been implementing
such technologies wherever possible. In FY2022 this
included the installation of a robotic palletising system
at our Muadzam Shah processing facility, consisting
of robotic arms that lift milk cartons and arrange them
into pallets, thus reducing manual labour and time
required to pack products for distribution.
MAINTAINING OUR COST PROPOSITION
The affordability of our products is central to the
proposition of our brands, and as a vertically integrated
dairy company we have historically been well placed
to produce quality products with a high degree of
cost-efficiency.
With the reopening of the global economy in the
post-pandemic era leading to supply chain bottlenecks
around the world, and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine
conflict causing spikes in raw material prices,
maintaining our cost proposition has been a challenge.
Faced with increased ingredient and logistical costs,
the situation necessitated an across-the-board increase
in our product prices by an average of 5%, executed
across our chilled products in September 2021 and
our UHT/ambient products in December 2021. This
was our first price increase in four years and represents
a modest price increase when compared to other
players in the industry, many of whom have increased
their prices a number of times over recent years with
a more substantial price increase quantum.
In mitigating against the negative impact of any further
instability, we are actively optimising our internal costs,
and one way we can do this is by being closer to our
customers and thereby reducing our logistics costs.
Our Taiping processing plant, which we have forged
through to completion despite the challenges and
restrictions faced during the COVID-19 pandemic, is
expected to be completed by end-2022. Once
completed, we will be able to reduce logistics costs
to serve our chilled products to the northern states
of Peninsular Malaysia, as currently our chilled milk
comes from either our Muadzam Shah facility in
Pahang or our Larkin facility in Johor.
Additionally, we are continuously optimising our feed
vis-à-vis the increasing prices of certain feed costs
arising from the Russia-Ukraine conflict. As an example,
we have increased the use of spent grain from other
industries, thereby reducing our purchases of corn
grain which has increased in price significantly. In
addition, our adoption of regenerative farming practices
means that we have reduced our reliance on externally
sourced inputs such as chemical fertilisers. This delivers
benefits not only for our bottom line but for the
sustainability and nutritional benefits of our products.
We will continue to seek out and implement innovative
farming and production methods that leverage our
integrated supply chain for increased cost-efficiency
and reduced operational risk.
17.3 million litres respectively. Furthermore, by end-
2022, two additional new lines will be installed at our
Larkin and Muadzam Shah facilities that will increase
their production capacities by a further 2.9 million
litres and 6.8 million litres respectively upon completion.
Looking forward, we plan to establish a new
manufacturing hub in the Central Region of Peninsular
Malaysia and a new dairy farm and integrated
processing facility in East Malaysia. These developments,
which are in the planning phase, will enable us to
better meet demand across the country and launch
new products in the dairy and plant-based categories.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022 C. OPERATIONAL REVIEW
58
MANUFACTURING
GROWING OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
Fruit Punch Yoghurt Drink
(July 2021)
Lychee Yoghurt Drink
(July 2021)
Banana Milk
(August 2021)
Henry Jones A2 Organic Milk
(April 2021)
Farm Yogurt
(relaunched with new packaging)
(September 2021)
Greek Yogurt
(relaunched with new packaging)
(January 2022)
Empowered by the expansion of our total production capacity, we launched a total of 13 SKUs in FY2022, as
shown below:
59
| 01 | 02 | Section 03 Management Discussion and Analysis | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
Products launched covered two categories where we became the first dairy company to introduce an offering
in the Malaysian market:
During the year in review, the Board decided to undertake a rationalisation exercise of our business under the
Henry Jones brand, involving amongst other things the downsizing of our fruit jam business. This was completed
in October 2021 with the redundancy of 16 staff and the ceasing of our production of fruit jams for modern
trade which had previously resulted in the losses incurred by our Australian operations. With the downsizing
completed, we are now well placed to focus on growing our dairy business in Australia.
Looking forward, the trajectory of our product portfolio growth is set to continue. Most immediately, we plan
to launch a fresh-milk based fortified growing up milk for children aged two to six years old in 2022, catering
to demand from parents for a more nutritious alternative to powder-based and reconstituted milk-based
products which are high in apparent and hidden sugar. Accordingly, our growing up milk will be free of any
preservatives, artifical flavouring, vegetable oil, calcium carbonate (from limestone) and most importantly hidden
sugar in the form of maltodextrin, in keeping with our core consumer promise.
Driven by the improved production capabilities that our central processing facility will provide us, we are
exploring expansion into other product categories and non-dairy packaged food and beverage products.
FYE 31 March 2021 FYE 31 March 2022
Processing Facilities 3 (2 in Malaysia, 1 in Australia) 3 (2 in Malaysia, 1 in Australia)
Annual Production
Capacity (Finished Goods)
109.5 million litres 137.0 million litres
Annual Production
Capacity (Processed Milk)
38.5 million litres 84.0 million litres
SKUs 122 135
Organic Milk:
Introduced under the Henry
Jones brand, our A2 Organic milk
is certified organic by the
National Association for
Sustainable Agriculture Australia
(NASAA)
Oat and Almond milk:
Introduced under the Farm Fresh
brand, these two plant-based
beverages cater to vegan and
lactose-intolerant consumers
while offering a healthy dairy
milk alternative for all
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022 C. OPERATIONAL REVIEW
60
MANUFACTURING
GROWING OUR HOME DEALER NETWORK
Our network of home dealers – the largest amongst
dairy companies in Malaysia – is one of our key
competitive advantages as a company. It provides us
with unrivalled reach throughout rural areas of Malaysia,
allows us to minimise our advertising and promotion
expenses, and connects us to valuable consumer
insights that we use to improve our products and
pricing. It also empowers ambitious micro-entrepreneurs
– 80% of which are women – to improve their financial
standing and generate a sustainable livelihood for
their families.
In FY2022, we continued to grow our home dealer
network, actively recruiting new stockists, home dealers
and agents across East and West Malaysia, with a
focus on increasing representation in areas of the
country which remain underpenetrated. As a result,
we now boast a total of 45 stockists, 900 home dealers
and 1,772 agents.
This strong network has paid dividends over the past
several years as the continued impact of the pandemic
caused consumers to pivot away from supermarket
purchases and towards home deliveries. As a result,
our home dealer network now contributes 30% of our
total revenue, ahead of sales to the HORECA market
and only behind large format retailers in terms of sales
contribution.
DRIVING REGIONAL EXPANSION
As mentioned above, we are aggressively pursuing
regional expansion opportunities that would see our
products reach consumer markets beyond our current
base of Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei.
We are currently undertaking an expansion of our
Kyabram facility, which upon completion will serve as
a hub for dairy exports to the Asia-Pacific region. We
also intend to set up processing facilities in both
Indonesia and the Philippines to focus on the chilled
market in both countries.
Meanwhile in January 2022, we incorporated a
subsidiary in Hong Kong (FFM HK) to facilitate the
importation, marketing and FDA approval of specific
products in our portfolio, using the sales and distribution
model that we have employed in Singapore as a model.
We plan to obtain all the necessary approvals and
start exporting to Hong Kong by the end of 2022.
DISTRIBUTION
61
| 01 | 02 | Section 03 Management Discussion and Analysis | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
DISTRIBUTION
FYE 31 March 2021 FYE 31 March 2022
Finished Goods Sold
(dairy and plant base
products)
75.5 million litres 78.6 million litres
Stockists (Home Dealer
Programme)
38 45
Home Dealers (Home
Dealer Programme)
871 900
Agents (Home Dealer
Programme)
1,609 1,772
Large Format Retailers 15 15
HORECA Outlets 7 hotels and 203 cafes 7 hotels and 252 cafes
Convenience Stores >5,000 >7,200
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022 C. OPERATIONAL REVIEW
62
DISTRIBUTION
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin
Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Loi Tuan Ee
Non-Independent Executive Director,
Group Managing Director and
Group Chief Executive Officer
Loi Foon Kion
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Independent Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Chairman:
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Members:
·
· Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan
Nizam
·
· Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chairman:
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Members:
·
· Loi Foon Kion
·
· Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
·
· Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan
Nizam
·
· Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
REGISTERED OFFICE
Suite 1301, 13th Floor
City Plaza, Jalan Tebrau
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel. No. : +607 332 2088
HEAD/MANAGEMENT OFFICE:
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel. No. : +607 232 3463
Website : www.farmfresh.com.my
E-mail : custsvc@farmfresh.com.my
REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : +603 2783 9299
COMPANY SECRETARY
Tricor Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.
Suite 1301, 13th Floor,
City Plaza, Jalan Tebrau,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel. No. : +607 332 2088
AUDITORS & REPORTING ACCOUNTANTS
KPMG PLT
Level 3, CIMB Leadership Academy
No. 3, Jalan Medini Utara 1
Medini Iskandar
79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor
Tel. No. : +607 266 2213
PRINCIPLE BANKERS
• CIMB Bank Berhad
• Hong Leong Bank Berhad
• Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group Limited
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name : FFB
Stock Code : 5306
Company : Farm Fresh Berhad
DATE OF LISTING
22 March 2022
63
CORPORATE INFORMATION
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section  04   Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
7MALAYSIANS
4
1
3
5
1
3
2
3
2
1
INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
MALAY
MALES
BELOW 50 YEARS OLD
51-60 YEARS OLD
NON-INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
CHINESE
FEMALES
ETHNICITY
GENDER
NATIONALITY
AGE GROUP
2
1
61-70 YEARS OLD
ABOVE 70 YEARS OLD
INDIAN
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
64
BOARD AT A GLANCE
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI HAJI MEGAT NAJMUDDIN
BIN DATUK SERI DR. HAJI MEGAT KHAS
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk
Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas graduated with an Honours
Degree in Law from the University of Singapore in 1970.
Upon graduation, he commenced his career as an
Executive Trainee with First National City Bank (now
Citibank) for 2 years until 1972. Thereafter, he commenced
legal practice and practiced at a leading law firm in
Kuala Lumpur for another 2 years, after which he went
on to establish his own law firm, Megat Najmuddin,
Leong & Co.
He retired from legal practice in 1986 and went into
politics. He was also once the UMNO Chief of Petaling
Jaya.
He was elected as the State Assemblyman of Kelana
Jaya for two terms, from 1986 until 1990 and from 1990
until 1995. He was also a municipal councillor for Majlis
Perbandaran Petaling Jaya and Majlis Perbandaran
Subang Jaya for 20 years. He had a stint as the Chairman
of the Public Accounts Committee of the Selangor State
Assembly and was once a director of the Selangor
Agricultural Development Corporation and the Selangor
Industrial Corporation, respectively. He left active politics
in 1995.
In the late 1990s, he was appointed as member of the
National Economic Consultative Council 2 (NECC 2) by
the then Prime Minister of Malaysia, where he was
involved in human resource development. In September
1999, he was also appointed to the Capital Market
Strategic Committee by the then Finance Minister of
Malaysia and in August 2001, he was appointed as
member of the Corporate Debt Restructuring Committee
(CDRC) of Bank Negara Malaysia (“BNM”).
He was elected as an Executive Committee Member of
the Federation of Public Listed Companies (“FPLC”) in
August 1994 and was appointed as its President in
October 1997. He represented the FPLC to the High
Level Finance Committee of the Ministry of Finance
Malaysia until 2000.
Nationality Malaysian
Age 78
Gender Male
Date of Appointment 25 September 2021
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
6 months
Number of Board Meetings Attended 5/5
Membership(s) of Board Committees Nil
He was a member of BNM’s Financial Directors’ Education
Steering Committee (FIDE). He was also one of the first
members of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
(MACC) when it was established to replace the Anti-
Corruption Agency (ACA). He also served as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of Petroliam Nasional Berhad
(PETRONAS) from April 2010 until April 2017. He retired as
the Chairman of Omesti Berhad (formerly known as Formis
Resources Berhad) and as Advisor of Tradewinds Corporation
Berhad in January 2018 whilst in June 2018, he retired as
Chairman of Majuperak Holdings Berhad. He is currently
the Chairman of Asian Pac Holdings Berhad and SEG
International Berhad. On 1 July 2020, he was recently
appointed as Chairman of Sime Darby Plantations Berhad.
Presently, he is the Honorary Patron of the Malaysian
Institute of Corporate Governance (MICG), of which he was
its first President and founder from April 1998 until 2015.
He is also a member of Transparency International Malaysia
(TIM) and holds chairmanships in a number of non-listed
companies namely, the Malaysian Institute of Management
(MIM), Ulink Ascot Sdn. Bhd. and Kuber Venture Berhad.
Recently in February 2021, he was appointed as Advisor
of Dialog Corporate Sdn. Bhd. whilst in March 2021, he
was appointed as Chairman of MYSJ Sdn. Bhd. (MySejahtera).
On the social front, he is the current President of Persatuan
Darul Ridzuan in Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur and
Selangor (a welfare organisation). He was the President of
Kelab Golf Negara Subang for 6 years and is the Advisor
and Trustee of the Tan Sri Muhiyiddin Charity Golf Foundation.
He is also a Trustee of MyKasih (Charity) Foundation and
the Vijayaratnam Foundation, as well as a council member
of Quest International University in Perak, Malaysia.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
65
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
LOI TUAN EE
Non-Independent Executive Director,
Group Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer
Loi Tuan Ee is one of the co-founders of our Group. He
attended Sekolah Menengah Jenis Kebangsaan Ayer
Tawar, Sitiawan, Perak for his secondary education until
1980. He commenced his career with Ayer Hitam Oil
Mill Sdn. Bhd. as a supervisor in 1982. He subsequently
joined Kartika Machinery Sdn. Bhd. in 1984 as a sales
representative and was involved in the sales and
marketing of industrial products.
He left Kartika Machinery Sdn. Bhd. to establish Ready
Chemical (M) Sdn. Bhd. and Multiview Enterprise Sdn.
Bhd. in 1984, companies which were principally involved
in the sale of household care products and the sale of
packaging materials respectively. In 1991, he joined
Century Bond Berhad as a director before being
redesignated as Deputy Managing Director in 2002
where he was responsible for, amongst others, developing
and managing strategic plans for the group.
In 2005, he left Century Bond Berhad to venture into
the farming business through the establishment of
Rainforest Capital where he was the Managing Director.
In 2010, he co-founded The Holstein Milk Company Sdn.
Bhd. and was instrumental in expanding our Group’s
operations in the dairy business since.
Nationality Malaysian
Age 59
Gender Male
Date of Appointment 24 March 2010
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
12 years 0 month
Number of Board Meetings Attended 7/7
Membership(s) of Board Committees Nil
As our Group Managing Director, he is primarily
responsible for the business development and direction,
strategic corporate planning and the overall operations
and management of our Group. Under Loi Tuan Ee’s
leadership, our Group was awarded “Best Dairy Farm”
by Asia Livestock in 2015 and in 2020, our Group received
the ASEAN Inclusive Business Award. In his personal
capacity, his notable achievements include being selected
as an “Endeavour Entrepreneur” at the 65th Endeavour
International Selection Panel in Bali in July 2016 as well
as being nominated for Ernst & Young’s Malaysia
Entrepreneur of the Year in 2016.
He was appointed as a permanent executive committee
member of the National Food Security Council on 17
June 2020. He was also appointed as a committee
member of the Program Review Committee of Universiti
Putra Malaysia’s faculty of educational studies on 22 July
2021. He currently holds directorships in other private
limited companies.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group.
He is the brother to both Loi Tuan Kin and Loi Foon
Kion. He has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed of any
public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
LOI
Non-I
Group
N
A
G
D
L
(
N
M
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
66
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
LOI FOON KION
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Loi Foon Kion graduated with a Bachelor of Science
(First Class Honours) in Food Science and Nutrition from
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia in 1991. She also holds
a Certified Diploma in Accounting and Finance from
The Chartered Association of Certified Accountants since
1996.
She commenced her career with Wattie Food Services
Sdn. Bhd. in 1991 as a food technologist and was
subsequently promoted to quality assurance officer,
where she was primarily responsible in setting up the
company’s quality assurance program and food safety
standards.
In 1994, she joined T.A.S. Leisure Sdn. Bhd. (“T.A.S. Leisure”)
as Special Projects and Administration Manager where
she was involved in procurement, quality assurance and
finance matters. She was also a member of the pioneer
team of T.A.S. Leisure which was instrumental in the
establishment of the first two Chilli’s Grill & Bar outlets
in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Nationality Malaysian
Age 55
Gender Female
Date of Appointment 25 September 2021
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
6 months
Number of Board Meetings Attended 5/5
Membership(s) of Board Committees
Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
She left T.A.S Leisure in 1997 to join Interni Asia Sdn.
Bhd. (“Interni Asia”), a company principally involved in
interior furnishing as a General Manager. She left Interni
Asia in 1999 and was on a seven-year sabbatical to pursue
her personal interests. In 2006, she joined Rainforest
Capital (as an Executive Director, which is an investment
holding company founded by her brother, Loi Tuan Ee).
She currently holds directorships in other private limited
companies.
She does not have any conflict of interest with the Group.
She is the sister to both Loi Tuan Ee and Loi Tuan Kin.
She has not been convicted for any offences within the
past five (5) years nor has she been imposed of any
public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
LOI
Non-In
N
A
G
D
L
(a
N
M
67
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly graduated from University of
Queensland with a Bachelor of Commerce, Accounting
and subsequently obtained a Master of Business
Administration, MIT Sloan Fellows Program from the
Massachusetts institute of Technology and Master of
Commerce, Finance and Business Information System
from University of Sydney.
He joined Khazanah Nasional Berhad (“Khazanah”) in
July 2007 and is currently the Head of Consumer. He
spent his earlier years in Khazanah covering the
infrastructure and telecommunication space, particularly
on UEM Group of companies, Telekom Malaysia, and
Astro Berhad. In 2017, upon his return from a one-year
stint in the Khazanah San Francisco office, he was made
Director of Internet & Technology (I&T) and Innovation
and Entrepreneurship (IxE) space, leading initiatives such
as TIDE and KNEO. Effizal is also currently serving as
the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of UEM
Sunrise Berhad. Prior to Khazanah, he spent 4 years as
a business analyst with Citibank Berhad. He is currently
a board member of UEM Sunrise Berhad.
EFFIZAL FAIZ BIN ZULKIFLY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality Malaysian
Age 43
Gender Male
Date of Appointment 18 April 2022
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
0 years
Number of Board Meetings
Attended
None, as he was appointed after
the close of the FY2022 ﬁnancial
year
Membership(s) of Board
Committees
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
E
N
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
68
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SUKANTA KUMAR DUTT
Independent Non-Executive Director
Sukanta Kumar Dutt has extensive experience in the
fields of governance, financial reporting and risk
management, having worked for 42 years at Messrs.
Ernst & Young (“EY”).
He commenced his career with EY as a trainee in 1977
and rose to admission as an audit partner in 1991. His
work experience spanned supporting and leading roles
on audit engagements and corporate exercises such as
mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings and
debt offerings. He subsequently held positions in EY as
Professional Practice Director (Malaysia and Far East),
Managing Partner, Quality & Risk Management (Far East
and Asia Pacific) as well as Managing Partner, Global
Risk Management Infrastructure. His responsibilities
included the integration, execution and monitoring of
risk processes, methodology and professional standards.
In 2015, he was appointed as Global Risk Management
Leader, a position he held until his retirement in 2019.
During his tenure as Global Risk Management Leader,
he chaired the Global Risk Management Executive
Committee, Audit Committee of EY global entities as
well as the Insurance Oversight Committee. As Global
Risk Management Leader, he was closely involved in
areas such as enterprise risk management, ethics,
compliance, internal audit, business continuity,
independence and conflicts of interest.
Nationality Malaysian
Age 64
Gender Male
Date of Appointment 25 September 2021
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
6 months
Number of Board Meetings
Attended
5/5
Membership(s) of Board
Committees
• Audit and Risk Management
Committee (Chairman)
• Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (Chairman)
SUKA
Indepe
N
A
G
D
Le
(a
N
A
M
C
He was previously a board member of the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board, the Malaysian Auditing
and Assurance Standards Board and a two-term board
member of the International Auditing and Assurance
Standards Board. He has been an independent director
of CIMB Bank Berhad since October 2019 and assumed
the Chair of CIMB Bank Berhad’s Board Risk and
Compliance Committee in January 2021.
He has been a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Certified Public Accountants since 1984 and the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants since 1990.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
69
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam has
over 36 years of experience in the field of veterinary
medicine and livestock production. He graduated with
a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from Universiti Pertanian
Malaysia in 1984 and subsequently obtained a Master
of Science in Epidemiology and Preventive Veterinary
Medicine from Free University of Berlin, Germany in
1994.
He commenced his career with the Department of
Veterinary Services (“DVS”) as a Veterinary Officer in
Negeri Sembilan from 1984 to 1989 where he was involved
in managing beef cattle at the Jelai Gemas Farm. In
1989, he was re-assigned to the DVS’ headquarters in
Kuala Lumpur where he worked as a Veterinary Officer
(Farm Division) until 1993.
He left the DVS to pursue his Masters in Germany in
1993 and upon returning to Malaysia in 1995, he worked
as a Veterinary Officer involved in educating
undergraduates, farmers and DVS personnel and
managing the dairy farm at the Veterinary Institute in
Kluang, Johor until 2000. He was subsequently promoted
to become the State Director of the DVS in the state
of Kedah from 2000 until 2007 and the state of Perak
from 2008 until 2011. During his stint as State Director,
he was instrumental in amongst others, developing the
livestock industry, raising the income of farmers and
ensuring overall animal health status, including preventing
zoonotic diseases.
DATO’ DR. QUAZA NIZAMUDDIN
BIN A. HASSAN NIZAM
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality Malaysian
Age 62
Gender Male
Date of Appointment 25 September 2021
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
6 months
Number of Board Meetings
Attended
5/5
Membership(s) of Board
Committees
• Audit and Risk Management
Committee
• Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
D
B
I
Throughout his career, he has held various positions
within the DVS, including as Director of the Livestock
Technology Resources Development division from 2011
until 2015 and as Deputy Director-General of the DVS
for Development and Veterinary Health from 2015 until
2017.
He was appointed as the Director-General of the DVS
in 2017, a position which he has held until his retirement
in 2020. His notable achievements throughout his 36-
year career with the DVS include being involved in
establishing rules and regulations under the Feed Act
2009, the formulation of the Animal Welfare Act 2015
in Malaysia and preparing and implementing strategic
plans for dairy and beef development programs for
Malaysia. He was also involved in overseeing effective
disease control programs, implementing standards and
certification for farms and processing plants and
negotiating for exports of livestock and its products to
other countries.
He is currently a board member of Lembaga Totalisator
Malaysia and a director of the Malaysian Equine Council.
He also holds directorships in other private limited
companies.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
70
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng has over 20 years of experience
in the fields of marketing, business development, and
management.
She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts majoring in
General Psychology from the University of Waterloo,
Canada in 1985 and subsequently obtained a Master of
Arts in Psychology from Duquesne University, United
States of America in 1986. She commenced her career
with Rima College as a Psychology and Sociology lecturer
under the American Degree Program in 1987. At the
end of 1987, she joined the Stamford College Group
where she continued her stint as a Psychology and
Philosophy lecturer until September 1988.
From September 1988 until January 1994, she held the
positions of Brand and Market Research Manager of
Malaysian Tobacco Company Bhd. As Market Research
Manager, she was tasked with providing analysis and
information on market trends and consumer demands.
Subsequently, she was promoted to Brand Manager,
where she was primarily involved in promoting the
company’s brands. Thereafter, she joined Quality Bakers
(M) Sdn. Bhd. in July 1994 as a Marketing Manager.
She left Quality Bakers (M) Sdn. Bhd. in August 1996 to
join JT International as Group Product Manager and was
responsible for promoting the company’s brands.
Subsequently, she joined Danone Marketing (Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd. in March 2001 as a Marketing Manager in the
Snacks Division and thereafter, the Marketing Director
of Biscuits and Snacks where she oversaw the marketing
team in the promotion of the company’s products.
JOCELYN NG LAI LENG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality Malaysian
Age 58
Gender Female
Date of Appointment 25 September 2021
Length of Service
(as at 31 March 2022)
6 months
Number of Board Meetings
Attended
5/5
Membership(s) of Board
Committees
• Audit and Risk Management
Committee
• Nomination and Remuneration
Committee
JOC
Indepe
N
A
G
D
L
(a
N
A
M
C
In August 2004, she embarked on a two-year sabbatical
to pursue her personal interests in art and fitness. She
returned from her sabbatical in January 2007 to join
Danone Dumex Sdn. Bhd. as the Marketing Director and
subsequently also assumed the role of Medical Marketing
Director. She was responsible for the promotion of brands
in both the consumer and medical sectors until July 2010.
She was appointed as the Head of Marketing (Foods &
Beverages) of PepsiCo Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. in November
2010. In March 2012, whilst in her capacity as Head of
Marketing (Foods & Beverages), she was further entrusted
with the portfolio of Head of Commercial (Foods). In
June 2013, she was promoted to the position of General
Manager of Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Mongolia, and
Pacific Islands, where she was responsible for various
functions, including amongst others, managing business
relationships with food and beverage distributors.
She joined Uniqlo Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. as the Senior Director
of Operations in March 2015 and was promoted to Chief
Operating Officer in September 2015, a position she held
until 2017. Currently, she is the sole proprietor of her own
consulting firm, where she provides consulting services
in respect of management and marketing matters. She
also holds a directorship in a private limited company.
She does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. She has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has she been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
71
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
Azmi Bin Zainal attended Sekolah Teknik Tuanku Jaafar,
Ampangan Seremban for his secondary education until
1983.
He began his career with the Federal Land Development
Authority (“FELDA”) in 1989 as a land planning officer for
Felda Lok Heng Barat where he was responsible for
managing FELDA settlers’ farming and social matters.
Subsequent to leaving FELDA in 1997, he founded his
own business, Gemilang Packaging Sdn. Bhd., where he
was involved in, amongst others, the trading and supply
of industrial packaging.
From 2006 to 2008, he was on a two-year sabbatical
where he pursued his personal interests. In 2008, he
joined Nu Moto Sdn. Bhd., a company involved in the
trading and supply of motorcycles to FELDA and Army
co-operatives as a sales representative.
He was appointed as the Chief Operating Officer of The
Holstein Milk Company in 2010 and is responsible for
managing the operations and sales of our Group. He is
also actively involved in the distribution and marketing
of our Group’s products. He currently holds directorships
in other private limited companies.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director,
member of key senior management or major shareholder
of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed
of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
AZMI BIN ZAINAL
Group Chief Operating Officer
56 Male Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
24 March 2010
LOI TUAN EE
Group Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer
For details on Loi Tuan Ee’s profile, refer to Directors’ profile on page 66.
MOHD KHAIRUL
BIN MAT HASSAN
Group Chief Financial Officer
43 Male Malaysian
Date of Appointment:
8 June 2020
Mohd Khairul Bin Mat Hassan graduated from the University
of Queensland, Australia in 2001 with a Bachelor of Commerce
and subsequently obtained a Master of Commerce from
the University of New South Wales, Australia in 2002. He
commenced his career with Pricewaterhouse Coopers
(Malaysia) as an Associate in 2002 and subsequently assumed
the role of Senior Associate, where he was involved in
assurance, audit and business advisory assignments until
2005. In 2006, he joined Pricewaterhouse Coopers Americas
(Bermuda) as a Senior Associate before being promoted to
the position of Manager, where he continued to be involved
in assurance, audit and business advisory assignments.
He returned to Malaysia in 2007 and worked with UEM
World Berhad from 2007 to 2008 as a Manager in the
corporate finance department of the group. He was
subsequently reassigned to UEM Sunrise Berhad (formerly
known as UEM Land Holdings Berhad) in 2008 as a Deputy
Senior Manager in the corporate planning and business
development department before leaving the group at the
end of 2011 to pursue a full-time one-year Masters in Business
Administration (MBA) programme in 2012 with the INSEAD
Business School (“INSEAD”).
After completing his masters studies, he worked with A.T.
Kearney, Inc. (Malaysia) from February 2013 to April 2014 as
a management consultant. He then joined NUR Power Sdn.
Bhd. (“NUR Power”) as the Senior General Manager, Finance
before being promoted to become the Chief Financial Officer
of NUR Power group in May 2014. He left the NUR Power
group in May 2020 and joined our Group as the Group Chief
Financial Officer in June 2020. He brings with him over 17
years of experience in the field of accounting and finance.
He is responsible for the overall finance function, strategic
and corporate finance matters, and general management
of our Group.
He also holds a MBA from INSEAD since 2012 and has been
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Australia since 2005 and the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants since 2016.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group
nor any family relationship with any other Director, member
of key senior management or major shareholder of the
Group. He has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed of any
public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
72
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Loi Tuan Kin is one of the co-founders of our Group. He has over 12 years’ experience in the dairy industry. He attended
Sekolah Menengah Rendah Jalan Tok Perdana, Sitiawan, Perak for his secondary education until 1981. Upon completing
his secondary education, he was on a two-year sabbatical from 1982 until 1984 to pursue his personal interests.
He began his career as a production supervisor at Century Bond Berhad in 1985. He was subsequently promoted to
production manager and was responsible for overseeing plant operations. In 2005, he left Century Bond Berhad to
join Rainforest Capital as an Executive Director and was tasked with overseeing the farming operations of the company.
In 2010, he co-founded The Holstein Milk Company Sdn. Bhd. together with Loi Tuan Ee and was instrumental in
establishing our Mawai farm in that same year. He currently oversees and manages all operational matters at both
our Mawai Farm and Larkin Facility, which includes, amongst others, daily milk transfers from farm to factory, the
processing of raw materials to finished goods, and the logistics coordination and distribution of our products within
Malaysia and Singapore. He currently holds directorships in other private limited companies.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group. He is the brother to both Loi Tuan Ee and Loi Foon Kion.
He has not been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed of any public
sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
LOI TUAN KIN
Plant Operations Direction
58 Male Malaysian
Date of Appointment: 24 March 2010
Jacob a/l Mathan graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science (Hons) in livestock production from Universiti
Malaysia Sabah in 2014 and has been with our Group since. He commenced his career as a Farm Executive at our
Mawai Farm in 2014 and was instrumental in the setup and development of our Muadzam Shah Cattle Research and
Innovation Centre in Pahang. He was subsequently promoted to lead our Muadzam Shah Farm in 2015 and was
appointed as Group Senior Farm Manager in 2018. He currently oversees the development and management of all
our farming operations across Malaysia.
He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group nor any family relationship with any other Director, member
of key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed of any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
JACOB A/L MATHAN
Group Senior Farm Manager
32 Male Malaysian
Date of Appointment: 1 January 2018
Adam Graeme Pretty has over 27 years of experience as a livestock manager with Green ham in Victoria, Australia.
Prior to joining our Group in 2017, he established Dairy Livestock Exports Pty Ltd, an Australian based company which
is principally involved in the export of cows to Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, UAE, China and Indonesia.
He currently oversees our Group’s Australia farming operations and is actively involved in the day-to-day operations
of our Australian business. He does not have any conflict of interest with the Group nor any family relationship with
any other Director, member of key senior management or major shareholder of the Group. He has not been convicted
for any offences within the past five (5) years nor has he been imposed of any public sanction or penalty by any
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
ADAM GRAEME PRETTY
Managing Director of the Australian Business
49 Male Australian
Date of Appointment: 5 October 2017
73
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Brand
Management
Product
Development
Group Chief
Operating Officer
Azmi Bin Zainal
Plant Operations
Director
Loi Tuan Kin
Micro-Entrepreneur Plant Management
Sales
(Modern Trade)
Engineering
Sales
(HORECA)
Warehouse,
Logistics and
Distribution
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
74
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Group Managing Director &
Group Chief Executive Officer
Loi Tuan Ee
Group Senior Farm
Manager
Jacob a/I Mathan
Group Chief
Financial Officer
Mohd Khairul Bin Mat
Hassan
Managing Director
of the Australian
Business
Adam Graeme Pretty
Muadzam Shah
Farm
Finance
Production/
Operations
Taiping Farm Human Resource Sales & Marketing
Mawai Farm
Corporate Finance/
Strategy
Desaru Farm IT & ERP
UPM Farm
75
| 01 | 02 | 03 | Section 04 Leadership | 05 | 06 | 07 | 08 |
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
IT IS MY PLEASURE TO PRESENT OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
2022, OUR FIRST AS A PUBLIC LISTED COMPANY. AS WE EMBARK
ON AN EXCITING NEW ERA FOR FARM FRESH BERHAD, THIS
STATEMENT AND ITS ATTENDANT REPORTS OUTLINE THE APPROACH
TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WHICH WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED
TO SAFEGUARD THE INTERESTS OF THE GROUP, ITS SHAREHOLDERS
AND STAKEHOLDERS.
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI HAJI MEGAT NAJMUDDIN
BIN DATUK SERI DR. HAJI MEGAT KHAS
Chairman
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
76
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As the Group aggressively pursues growth and expansion
opportunities, and engages with a wider range of
partners and suppliers, it is of utmost importance that
we adhere to the highest standards in ethical business
conduct and provide all stakeholders with channels to
voice any concerns or issues that arise. To this end, the
five new policies and codes adopted during FY2022 will
play an important role.
In navigating the evolving challenges posed by the
rapidly changing post-pandemic business environment,
the Group has instituted a sound and comprehensive
approach to risk management. This is spearheaded by
the members of our Audit and Risk Management
Committee (ARMC) and the Group’s Internal Audit
Department, which will continue to work closely with
the ARMC and the Board to evaluate the adequacy of
the Group’s internal control system and effectively
address any instances of non-compliance.
Furthermore, I am pleased to report that the policies
and codes adopted by the Group, and the practices of
our Board Committees, are in line with the
recommendations of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (MCCG) 2021. This aligns our practices with
global principles and internationally recognised
practices of corporate governance, providing a strong
basis for us to strengthen board oversight and integrate
sustainability considerations at all levels of the Group.
As expanded upon across this Integrated Annual Report,
we are operating in a unique time in global history; one
where the forces of globalisation and digitalisation are
converging with unprecedented concern over
environmental issues, all set against a backdrop of
turbulent macroeconomic conditions. This poses various
challenges for companies of all sizes, but above all
means that we must formulate strategies that deliver
balanced growth and drive shared value.
In this respect, it gives me great confidence to note that
our Board of Directors brings a combination of skills,
knowledge and perspectives to the table. Their experience
spans dairy farming and production, investment
management, corporate governance, government
relations and more, providing the Group with both sound
oversight and clear direction as it seeks to cement its
position in the Malaysian market and sustainably
penetrate new markets outside the country.
As the Group navigates the challenges and opportunities
presented in this new era, I look forward to continuing
our collective work towards delivering greater value for
all our stakeholders.
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin
Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
Chairman
77
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
IN ENHANCING AND SAFEGUARDING THE INTERESTS OF STAKEHOLDERS AND
ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (“THE BOARD”)
OF FARM FRESH BERHAD RECOGNISES THE IMPORTANCE OF UPHOLDING
GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ITS RESPONSIBILITY OF MAINTAINING
HIGH STANDARDS OF TRANSPARENCY, ACCOUNTABILITY AND INTEGRITY.
In addition, the Group is committed to upholding good Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices
and works towards embedding sustainability into its business processes. A full disclosure of our sustainability
initiatives and practices can be found in the Sustainability Statement within this Integrated Annual Report,
containing in-depth analysis of our sustainability performance in relation to ESG matters material to the Group
and its stakeholders, as well as our support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is prepared in accordance with the Main Market Listing
Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), in line with the
principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) 2021 under the leadership of the
Board during the financial year ended 31 March 2022 (“FY2022”).
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board is responsible for determining the Group’s overall direction, thereby ensuring the delivery of sustainable
value to our stakeholders while protecting the interests of the Group. In doing so, the Board champions good
governance and ethical practices, provides leadership in guiding the creation of corporate strategies, and works
to ensure the effective execution of these strategies.
The governance structure of the Board is as follows:
Audit and Risk Management
Committee (“ARMC”)
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (“NRC”)
BOARD
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
78
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
In maintaining effective supervision and accountability
of the Board and the management, the position of
Chairman and Group Managing Director/Chief Executive
Officer are held by different individuals, thereby
ensuring balance of power and authority. The roles
and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are specified
in the Board Charter and accessible at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
The Board has full and unrestricted access to all
information pertaining to the Group, in addition to
the services of the Group’s Company Secretary and
senior management at all times to aid in the proper
discharge of their fiduciary duties. The notices and
the meeting papers are sent to all members of the
Board and Board Committees ahead of scheduled
meetings, ensuring sufficient time to peruse issues to
be deliberated.
During FY2022, the Board adopted the following new
policies and codes:
· Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
· Conflict of Interest Policy
· Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
· Ethical Trading Policy
· Whistle Blowing Policy
These documents define the Group’s commitments
towards issues relevant to good corporate governance
and are periodically reviewed to ensure relevance and
applicability. They are accessible at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board comprises seven (7) experienced and
competent members with different areas of expertise,
out of which four (4) members are Independent Non-
Executive Directors (“INED”). None of the members of
the Board is a former key audit partner of the external
auditors of the Company.
The Board has established the Audit and Risk
Management Committee (“ARMC”) and the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) to assist in the
execution of its responsibilities. Each of the Board
Committees is chaired by an INED who is not the
Chairman of the Board. The functions, duties and
authorities of the Board Committees are set out in
their Terms of Reference, which are accessible at
https://www.farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
The Board via the NRC has established a set of criteria
for the assessment of all directors including independent
directors. The criteria adopted serve as a reference for
the Board’s annual assessment of prospective and
incumbent directors and are reviewed regularly to
maintain their relevance. Furthermore, the effectiveness
of the Board, its Committees and each individual
director is reviewed annually. Moving forward, the
Board shall engage professional, experienced and
independent experts at least every three (3) years, to
facilitate objective and candid board evaluation.
(i) Assessment of independence of INEDs
As part of the IPO process, the Company together
with its advisors have assessed the independence
of all INEDs, focusing not only on whether a
director’s background and current activities qualify
him or her as independent but also whether the
director can act independently of the management
and free from any business or other relationship
which could interfere with the exercise of
independent judgement or their ability to act in
the best interests of the Group. Going forward,
the NRC shall perform such assessments annually.
The NRC has determined that all INEDs have
remained objective and independent. Each of the
INED has provided a confirmation of his/her
independence to the NRC.
(ii) Review of the effectiveness of the individual
Directors, Board Committees and the Board
The NRC has reviewed the competencies,
contributions and performances of each individual
Director, all Board Committees and the Board as
a whole. In carrying out its assessments, the NRC
is satisfied with the effectiveness of all parties.
(iii) Review of the AC, external auditors and internal
auditors
The NRC in conjunction with its annual processes,
will review the independence, composition, skills
and expertise, term of office and overall performance
of the ARMC. The NRC has also, through the ARMC,
reviewed the objectivity, independence,
competency, professionalism and resource capacity
of the Group’s external and internal auditors, and
is satisfied with its findings.
79
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
(iv) Review of the remuneration of Directors
The NRC has reviewed Directors’ remuneration,
which includes fees, salary, benefits-in-kind and
other emoluments. At the recommendation of
NRC, the Board is of the view that the current
Directors’ fees of RM150,000 for Chairman and
RM400,000 for other Directors are sufficient to
attract and retain high calibre Directors to serve
on the Board. The total proposed Directors’ fees
of RM550,000 for FY2022 will be tabled at the
forthcoming 11th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
of the Group for the approval of shareholders.
(v) Rotation of Directors
As per the Constitution of the Company
(“Constitution”), 1/3 of Directors with a minimum
of one (1) year of service shall retire from office and
shall be eligible for re-election at every AGM. The
Constitution also provides that all Directors shall
retire from office at least once in every 3 years.
All seven Directors on the Board are standing for
re-election at the forthcoming 11th AGM, and all
have indicated their intentions to seek re-election.
Having considered the suitability, effectiveness
and attendance of the Directors in question at
Board and Board Committee meetings during
the year in review, as well as other criteria such
as directorships on other public listed and public
companies, and the potential for any conflicts of
interest with the Group, the Board recommends
their re-election to be approved by shareholders
at the forthcoming 11th AGM.
With regard to Board and Board Committee
meetings, these are scheduled quarterly with
additional meetings convened as and when
necessary. Meetings are conducted based on a
formal agenda containing time allocated for
matters to be discussed and time for deliberation.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairperson
of the respective Board Committees chair the
meetings with a proper record of minutes kept
by the Company Secretary. The draft minutes are
made available to all the members of the Board
and Board Committees before the confirmation
of minutes at the next meeting. Each Director
must attend at least fifty (50) percent of the
Board meetings held in each financial year.
The attendance of members of the Board and Board Committees during FY2022 were as follows:
Name of Director Board ARMC NRC
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk
Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
5/5* N/A N/A
Loi Tuan Ee
Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer
7/7 N/A N/A
Loi Foon Kion
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 N/A 2/2
Tan Mei Shwen Serena
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
7/7 N/A 2/2
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 2/2* 2/2*
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 2/2 2/2
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 2/2 2/2
* Chairperson of the Board/Board Committee
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
80
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Members/Date of Meeting
7 Apr
2021
(02/2021)
9 Jul
2021
(03/2021)
27 Sep
2021
(04/2021)
18 Oct
2021
(05/2021)
5 Jan
2022
(01/2022)
11 Feb
2022
(02/2022)
8 Mar
2022
(03/2022)
Number of
Meetings
Attended
Loi Tuan Ee
(Appointed w.e.f. 24.03.2010)
7/7
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin
Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.09.2021)
– – 5/5
Loi Foon Kion
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.09.2021)
– – 5/5
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.09.2021)
– – 5/5
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.09.2021)
– – 5/5
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.09.2021)
– – 5/5
Tan Mei Shwen Serena
(Resigned w.e.f. 18.04.2022)
7/7
DIRECTORS’ TRAINING
All Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities.
Furthermore, Directors are required to evaluate their own training needs on a continuous basis with the
overriding objective of staying abreast of relevant regulatory requirements and ongoing business
developments. The Board is committed to stay abreast of training programmes and workshops conducted
by Bursa Securities and other training providers, while receiving updates of new statutory and regulatory
requirements from time to time.
During FY2022, since their appointment, the Directors have attended various training programmes, seminars,
conferences and forums, details of which are set out below:
Directors Training Programme Organizer Date
1. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri
Haji Megat
Najmuddin Bin
Datuk Seri
Dr. Haji Megat Khas
Khazanah Megatrends Forum Khazanah Nasional Berhad 4th-6th October 2021
Sime Darby Plantation Board
Webinar on Environment, Social
& Governance (ESG) – Insights
for Directors
Sime Darby Plantation
Berhad
15th December 2021
2. Loi Tuan Ee Bursa Mandatory Accreditation
Program
ICDM 15th-17th March 2022
3. Loi Foon Kion Bursa Mandatory Accreditation
Program
ICDM 15th-17th March 2022
4. Sukanta Kumar Dutt Board Sustainability Training CIMB 21st October 2021
Budget Seminar EY 12th November 2021
Board Sustainability Training CIMB 3rd December 2021
FIDE Annual Dialogue with
BNM Governor
FIDE 20th January 2022
Asean Finance Executive Forum EY 27th January 2022
FIDE Masterclass/MY FinTech
Week
FIDE 15th February 2022
Bursa Mandatory Accreditation
Program
ICDM 15th-17th March 2022
81
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
Directors Training Programme Organizer Date
5. Dato’ Dr. Quaza
Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam
Bursa Mandatory Accreditation
Program
ICDM 15th-17th March 2022
6. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng Forum: Conversations with
Mentor: BoardRoom Realities:
Are you Ready?
30% Club 9th November 2021
Bursa Mandatory Accreditation
Program
ICDM 15th-17th March 2022
REMUNERATION
In order to attract and retain high calibre Directors, the Group aims to maintain competitive remuneration
packages comprising a basic salary, allowances, bonuses and other benefits-in-kind.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is linked to their experience and the level of responsibilities they
undertake. The Director concerned is abstained from deliberation and voting on decisions concerning his or
her remuneration package.
Name/Designation
Directors’
Fees (RM)
Basic
Salary
(RM)
Allowance
(RM)
Others
(EPF, SOCSO, EIS)
(RM)
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin
Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
Independent Non-Executive Director
150,000 – 6,000 –
Loi Tuan Ee
Non-Independent Executive Director
– 1,187,097 245,760 143,376
Loi Foon Kion
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 6,000 –
Sukanta Kumar Dutt
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 8,000 –
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 8,000 –
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
Independent Non-Executive Director
100,000 – 8,000 –
Tan Mei Shwen Serena – – – –
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly – – – –
Total 550,000 1,187,097 281,760 143,376
Senior Management’s Remuneration for FY2022
The breakdown of remuneration of our top five key senior management comprising salary, allowance, bonus,
benefits in-kind and other emoluments in bands of RM50,000 are as set out below:
Key Senior Management Total Remuneration (RM)
Loi Tuan Ee 1,550,000 - 1,600,000
Mohd Khairul Bin Mat Hassan 1,150,000 - 1,200,000
Loi Tuan Kin 800,000 - 850,000
Azmi Bin Zainal 700,000 - 750,000
Adam Graeme Pretty 600,000 - 650,000
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
82
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The ARMC is led by an INED who is not the Chairman
of the Board. The ARMC comprises three (3) INEDs,
each satisfying the “independence” requirements set
out in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
At least one (1) member of the ARMC must be a
member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants or
have at least three (3) years’ working experience and
have passed the examinations specified in Part I of
the First Schedule of the Accountants Act, 1967, or be
a member of one (1) of the associations of accountants
specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the
Accountants Act, 1967. In addition, at least one (1)
member of the ARMC must fulfil such other
requirements as prescribed or approved by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad. Furthermore, all AC
members are financially literate, with extensive
corporate experiences and the requisite business skills
to carry out their role.
The roles and responsibilities of the ARMC cover the
following areas:
a) Risk Management and Internal Control
b) Internal Audit
c) External Audit
d) Audit Reports
e) Financial Reporting
f) Related Party Transactions
g) Allocation under Employees’ Share Option Scheme
(ESOS)
h) Whistleblowing
A summary of activities carried out by ARMC in
discharging its functions in FY2022 is disclosed in the
‘Audit and Risk Management Committee Report’ of
this Integrated Annual Report on page 89. Profiles of
ARMC members are accessible at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
FRAMEWORK
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound risk
management and internal control system, regularly
reviewing its relevance and effectiveness, and putting
in place adequate measures to safeguard the interests
of shareholders and the Group.
In delivering sound oversight of the Group’s risk
management and internal control procedures, the
Board is assisted by the ARMC. The ARMC reviews
pertinent risks and analyse each risk’s potential impact
to the Group, providing feedback for management
actions based on the analysis carried out. Key matters
identified are further escalated to the Board for its
attention and further action.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
83
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of transparency
and accountability in its communication with the
Group’s shareholders.
To this end, the Board communicates information on
the operations, activities and performance of the Group
through its Integrated Annual Report, various corporate
announcements made to Bursa Securities and the
Company’s corporate website, while engaging
stakeholders through dialogues, discussions and
briefings with the press, fund managers and analysts
through its programme of investor relations activities.
Stakeholders may direct their queries or concerns to
the Company Investor Relations function via telephone
or email.
In line with Paragraph 15.26(a) of the Listing
Requirements, the Directors are also responsible for
the preparation of financial statements for each
financial year that provide a true and fair view of the
financial position, financial performance and cash flows
of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that proper
accounting and other records are kept which disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group. Financial statements must
comply with the Companies Act 2016, the applicable
approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the
Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities. In ensuring
an effective system of checks and balances to this
end, the ARMC reviews the Group’s quarterly financial
results and annual Audited Financial Statements to
ensure accuracy, adequacy and completeness prior to
presentation of the statements for Board approval.
For more information on our stakeholders’ activities
and issues raised with stakeholders, please refer to
“Key Stakeholder Engagement” on pages 36-39.
CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Notice of all general meetings are sent to shareholders
at least 14 days before the meeting or at least 21 days
prior to the meeting where any special resolution is
to be proposed or where it is an AGM.
During general meetings, shareholders will be given
opportunity and sufficient time to express their views
or raise issues in connection with the Group’s financial
performance, business operations, corporate governance
and any other matters relevant to their interests, with
the Directors, senior management and auditors of the
Group present in person to respond to the issues
raised.
In line with Paragraph 8.29A of the Listing Requirements
of Bursa Securities, the Board has implemented poll
voting for all the resolutions set out in the notice of
general meetings and the appointment of at least
one (1) independent scrutineer to validate the votes
cast at the general meetings. The outcome of general
meetings including results of poll voting are announced
to Bursa Securities on the same day after the meetings
are concluded and are accessible at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/or via www.
bursamalaysia.com/market_information/announcements/
company_announcement.
Summaries of the key matters discussed at general
meetings are accessible at https://www.farmfresh.com.
my/investor-relations/.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was
approved by the Board on 21st July 2022.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND
MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
84
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board affirms its commitment and overall
responsibility and oversight of the system of internal
control and risk management of Farm Fresh Berhad
and its subsidiaries (the Group).
The Board confirms that there is continuous effort to
enhance the Group’s overall risk management and
internal control processes by pursuing various initiatives
that involve the Group. The Board is supported by the
Audit and Risk Management Committee (ARMC), which
reviews and monitors the Group’s risk exposures and
the design and operating effectiveness of the underlying
risk management and internal controls systems by
periodically reviewing the following:
· the principal business risks and control measures
to mitigate or reduce such risks;
· the strengths and weaknesses of the overall internal
controls system and action plans to address the
risk of weaknesses or to improve the assessment
process;
· the business internal processes and operations
reported by the Internal Audit Department,
including action plans to address the identified
control weaknesses, the monitoring of
implementation of its recommendations and status
updates; and
· the reports by the external auditors of any control
issues identified in the course of their audit related
and non-audit related work and the discussion
with external auditors of the scope of their respective
review and findings.
The ARMC reports to the Board on significant issues
that it has deliberated and dealt with. The Board
remains responsible for the governance of risk
management and internal control, and for the actions
of all Board Committees with respect to the execution
of its delegated oversight responsibilities.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
Management is accountable to the Board and is
responsible for effective implementation of risk
management and control mechanisms, including:
· providing executive leadership in the management
of risk within their work responsibilities
· identifying and evaluating risks faced by the group
· formulating and implementing internal control and
risk management actions and mechanisms
· implementing remedial actions in response to
significant risks, and to address compliance and
control issues
· the overall achievement of business objectives and
strategies
Management is committed to operating a sound
system of internal control and the internal control
system will continue to be reviewed, updated, and
improved upon in line with changes in the operating
environment. Key to this is to identify significant threats
and opportunities, evaluate the risk profile and drive
mitigation strategies on a regular basis. All heads of
departments, managers and senior executives are
required to assume responsibility for risk management
within their areas of responsibility and ensure that risk
management is embedded in day-to-day business and
decision-making processes.
The Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief
Financial Officer have provided assurance to the Board
that the Group’s risk management and internal control
systems are operating adequately and effectively.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has put in place an Enterprise Risk
Management (“ERM”) framework, in accordance with
the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, to
ensure that there is an on-going process of identifying,
evaluating, and managing significant business risk
exposure. The Group’s ERM framework aims to facilitate
the execution of strategic business plans to achieve
the Group’s objectives by implementing relevant
controls to mitigate the principal risks of the business.
The Group’s ERM framework is based on the
internationally recognised COSO (Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations) framework. Risk factors are
incorporated into the risk register and individually
rated as High, Medium or Low risk. The rating process
is guided by a matrix of ‘likelihood’ and ‘impact’, with
both financial and non-financial impact being
considered. Thereafter, owners of these risk factors
drive the implementation of risk mitigation measures
towards achieving a residual risk that is within
acceptable tolerance.
85
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group has an Internal Audit Department to support the ARMC and the Board. The Internal Audit Department
conducts an audit on the Group’s operations as mandated by the ARMC based on the approved annual audit plan.
The Internal Audit function evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
Furthermore, the Internal Audit function checks and monitors compliance to ensure adherence to the Group’s
policies and procedures.
Relevant findings with respect to non-compliance are highlighted to the Board via the ARMC, with corrective
measures identified for the onward action of Management. The Head of Audit and Risk reports the audit
findings and management action plans to the ARMC on a quarterly basis.
PRINCIPAL RISKS
Principle Risks Description Key Mitigation Measures
COVID-19 Risk COVID-19 can result in various
business and operational
disruptions.
· Implementing a Work from Home policy to
minimise the risk of COVID-19 spread among
employees.
· Continuously performing COVID-19 testing,
reinforcing the Standard Operating Procedures and
working closely with the authorities to ensure
employees are fully vaccinated.
· Frequent communication of personal hygiene and
health awareness.
Cyber Security
Risk
Lack of awareness of cyber
security risk might cause
financial losses to the company.
· Providing training to all employees through a
Cybersecurity Awareness Day to ensure they are
aware of and continue to be vigilant towards cyber
security risks (i.e. phishing scams, ransomware, etc).
· Continuously emphasising the importance of using
stronger passwords, and enforcing the practices of
no password sharing, no saving of passwords in
browser, restricting access to personal details in
social media, and promptly reporting any cyber
security threat.
Product
quality Risk
Poor product quality risks
reputational damage to the
Group.
· Continuously adhering to the Good Manufacturing
Practices (GMP) and quality guidelines.
· Strengthening quality checks on raw material and
finished goods.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
86
Principle Risks Description Key Mitigation Measures
Livestock
Management
Risk
Any diseases or health risks
within our herd can result in
l o w e r r e p r o d u c t i v i t y ,
performance and yield, and
also cause reputational
damage to the Group.
· Strictly adhering to scheduled vaccinations for our
dairy herd for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) and
other diseases such as Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD).
· Adherence to Good Animal Husbandry Practices
(GAHP) Manual which governs our farm practices
and Malaysia Good Agricultural Practices (MyGAP)
guidelines on good agricultural practices for
livestock.
· Assigning a designated veterinary team to each
farm in the Group, to ensure continuous monitoring
is carried out and adequate treatment provided to
livestock.
· Using technology such as artificial insemination
and in-vitro fertilisation (“IVF”) to propagate our
herd from our current top performing cows based
on aspects such as milk yield, fertility levels,
longevity and adaptability to harsh tropical
environments.
Fraud Risk Being responsive and decisive
in detecting and preventing
fraud-related issues reduces
the Group’s risk of suffering
losses due to any occurrence.
· Maintaining whistleblowing procedures to respond
to non-compliance or ethical issues reported. An
external party will soon be engaged to operate an
independent hotline to manage confidentiality and
to provide additional confidence to parties who
wish to lodge a report.
· Currently, we are in the midst of engaging an
external party to manage the hotline to ensure the
confidentiality and creditability of such reports.
INTERNAL CONTROL STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES
· Board and Management Committees
Board Committees such as the Audit and Risk Management Committee and the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee have been set up by the Board and delegated with specific responsibilities which are all governed
by clearly defined terms of reference and authority for areas within their scope. The Board Charter sets out
the responsibilities and functions of the Board and the supporting Board committees.
· Organisation Structure
The Group has a defined organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility, authority and accountability
which enable the Management to act in the best interest of the shareholders.
· Policies and Procedures
There is extensive documentation of policies, procedures and guidelines in the form of Operational Manuals
on key business processes and supporting functions which include financial reporting, human capital,
procurement and information technology systems. These policies and manuals are reviewed and revised
periodically to meet changing business, operational and statutory reporting needs.
87
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
· Limits of Authority (“LOA”)
Major investments and capital expenditure are reviewed and approved by the Board. All other procurements
and payments are approved by the various levels of Management in accordance to their authorisation limits.
The LOA is reviewed and updated periodically to reflect any changes.
· System and Information Security
The Group Information Technology Department is responsible for continuously monitoring and resolving
security threats to the Company both internally and externally. The Group has an IT Security Policy that
regulates the use of information technology resources and system data.
· Compliance to Regulatory Requirements
The Group has maintained the effectiveness of its internal control function and remains in compliance with
requirements such as MACC Anti Bribery Act.
· Reporting and Review
The Group is equipped with computerised systems that are capable to capture, compile and analyse data
for management decision-making purposes. Monthly management reports containing financial results, ratio
analysis and operational performance indicators are reviewed by the Management and Senior Management
while the quarterly report on consolidation results is submitted for the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and the Board’s attention.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the
external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. Their limited
assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued
by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
risk management and internal control systems of the Group.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was approved by the Board on 21st July 2022.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
88
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF FARM FRESH BERHAD (“BOARD”) IS PLEASED
TO PRESENT THE GROUP’S AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022.
ARMC MEMBERS
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director who
is not the Chairman of the Board and comprises three (3) members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive
Directors who satisfy the “independence” requirements contained in the Main Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
Members Position
Sukanta Kumar Dutt Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
ARMC MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
The ARMC convened a total of two (2) meetings during FY2022. These meetings were held on 21 December
2021 and 8 March 2022 respectively. The details of attendance of each member who served the ARMC during
FY2022 are as follows:
Members
Number of Meetings
Attended
Attendance Record (%)
Sukanta Kumar Dutt 2/2 100%
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam 2/2 100%
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 2/2 100%
Other members of the Board, members of the Group’s management team, the Group’s external auditors and
the Group’s Company Secretary were invited to attend the meetings, as and when necessary.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF THE ARMC
The functions and duties of the ARMC are set out in its terms of reference and available at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
In discharging its functions, duties and responsibilities, the ARMC has undertaken the following activities during
FY2022:
a) Risk Management and Internal Control
b) Internal Audit
· Reviewing annual internal audit deliverable plans for year 2022
· Monitoring the control gap highlighted by the External Auditors
c) External Audit
· Reviewing audit plans and work of audit scope for FY2022
d) Financial Reports
· Reviewing the financial reports/accountant report for recommendation to the Board for approval
89
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
e) Related Party Transactions
· Reviewing the terms and conditions of call option exercise granted, and ensuring that it is not detrimental
to the Group and its minority shareholders
f) Allocation under Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
· Verifying that the allocation corresponds with the conditions for allocation
g) Whistleblowing
· Reviewing the proposal by the Head of Internal Audit of outsourcing the whistleblowing system service
to an external party
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group’s Internal Audit Department reports directly to the ARMC on its activities. With respect to the Group’s
internal control system, its function is to conduct audits on the Group’s operations and thereby provide
independent assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance and internal control processes
adopted.
Based on the evaluations carried out in FY2022, recommendations were developed and circulated to the
management for their onward action, with these recommendations also highlighted to the ARMC. Based on
the management’s responses, the Internal Audit Department then ensured that appropriate actions were taken
and thereafter reported to the Board.
This Audit and Risk Committee Report is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board on 21st July
2022.
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
90
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF FARM FRESH BERHAD (“BOARD”) IS PLEASED
TO PRESENT THE GROUP’S NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022, OUTLINING THE
GROUP’S APPROACH TO NOMINATING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND THE
ACTIVITIES IT UNDERTAKES IN DISCHARGING ITS RESPONSIBILITIES.
NRC MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
The NRC convened a total of 2 meetings during FY2022.
These meetings were held on 5 January 2022 and 8
March 2022 respectively. The details of attendance of
each member who served the NRC during FY2022 are
as follows:
Members
Number of
Meetings Attended
Attendance
Record (%)
Sukanta Kumar Dutt 2/2 100%
Loi Foon Kion 2/2 100%
Tan Mei Shwen Serena 2/2 100%
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin
Bin A. Hassan Nizam
2/2 100%
Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 2/2 100%
Other members of the Board, members of the Group’s
management team, the Group’s external auditors and
the Group’s Company Secretary were invited to attend
the meetings, as and when necessary.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF THE NRC
The functions and duties of the NRC are set out in its
terms of reference and available at https://www.
farmfresh.com.my/investor-relations/.
In discharging its functions, duties and responsibilities,
the NRC has undertaken the following activities during
FY2022:
a) Nomination Matters
· Noting the Directors retiring pursuant to the
constitution of the Company at the forthcoming
AGM of the Company.
b) Remuneration Matters
· Recommending directors’ fees for FY2022 and
FY2023
· Recommending the benefits payable to the non-
executive Chairman and non-executive Directors
c) Other Matters
· Reviewing and recommending to the Board the
adoption of Board evaluation forms for the
conduct of annual assessments of the effectiveness
of the individual directors/key officers.
THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Responsibility for the nomination and remuneration
of Board members is undertaken by the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).
The principal objective of the NRC is to assist the
Board in overseeing matters related to the nomination
of new directors, reviewing regularly the structure, size
and composition (including the skills, knowledge,
independence), diversity (including gender diversity
and experience) required of the Board, undertaking
assessment of the effectiveness of the Board as a
whole, the various board committees and performance
contribution of each individual director, and determining
and recommending the general remuneration policy
and packages for directors and senior management.
The NRC is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive
Director who is not the Chairman of the Board and
has five (5) members, comprising exclusively of non-
executive directors, a majority of whom must be
Independent Non-Executive Directors (“INED”) who
satisfy the “independence” requirements contained in
the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing
Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
Members Position
Sukanta Kumar
Dutt
Chairman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Loi Foon Kion Member
(Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Tan Mei Shwen
Serena
Member
(Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director)
Dato’ Dr. Quaza
Nizamuddin Bin
A. Hassan Nizam
Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Jocelyn Ng Lai
Leng
Member
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
91
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE REPORT
1. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable to the external auditors and its affiliate corporations
for the audit and non-audit services rendered to the Group for FY2022 are as follows:
Type of Services/External Auditors
Fees (RM’000)
Company Group
Audit
fees:
· KPMG PLT
· Other auditor
165,000
–
288,000
231,189
Total Audit Fees 165,000 519,189
Non-audit
fees
· KPMG PLT
· Local affiliates of KPMG PLT
Malaysia
830,000
20,000
830,000
60,000
Total Non-Audit Fees 850,000 890,000
Non-audit services include the following:
i) tax compliance and advisory services
ii) due diligence in relation to corporate exercises
iii) accountants’ reports for the Group’s Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) exercise
2. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There were no material contracts entered into by or subsisting between the Group and/or its subsidiaries
involving Directors’ and major shareholders’ interests during FY2022.
3. Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
Under the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (ESOS), the Group granted and vested 37,159,000 ESOS options
under the First Tranche of the ESOS to the eligible employees of the Group and its subsidiaries during
FY2022.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
92
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
The Board is responsible for the preparation of of the annual financial statements of Farm Fresh Berhad, and
for ensuring their integrity. As required by the Companies Act 2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 have
been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Act. Moreover, the Board is responsible for ensuring that proper
accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group.
The Board declares that in preparing the financial statements, the Group has used the appropriate accounting
policies, which have been consistently applied and are supported by reasonable and prudent judgement and
estimates. Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that the information contained in the financial statements provide
a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year.
The Board assumes, amongst others, leadership, due care and fiduciary duties as governed by the Constitution
of the Company, the Companies Act 2016 (“Act”), the MMLR of Bursa Securities, MCCG, Board Charter and
other relevant laws, rules and regulatory guidelines in discharging its duties and responsibilities as follows:-
(a) set the corporate values and promote a good corporate governance culture within the Group, which
reinforces ethical, prudent and professional behaviour and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and
other stakeholders are met;
(b) review, challenge and decide on proposals put forward by the Management for the Company, and monitor
its implementation by Management;
(c) review and oversee the implementation of the strategic business plan of the Group to ensure that it
supports long-term value creation and promotes sustainability, taking into consideration the economic,
environmental and social considerations;
(d) oversee the conduct of the Group’s business and operations to ensure that the businesses are being
properly managed;
(e) review and ensure the adequacy and integrity of the internal controls and management systems of the
Group, including systems for compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules, directives and guidelines;
(f) identify the principal risks of the business of the Group and recognise that the business decisions involve
the taking of appropriate risks;
(g) set the risk appetite within which the Board expects the Management to operate and ensure that there
is an appropriate risk management framework to identify, analyse, evaluate, manage and monitor significant
financial and non-financial risks;
(h) ensure that all members of the Board and the Management team are of sufficient calibre;
(i) ensure that the Company has in place the appropriate corporate disclosure procedures to ensure effective
communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders;
(j) ensure that all members of the Board are able to understand financial statements and form a view on
the information presented; and
(k) ensure the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
93
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | Section 05 Governance | 06 | 07 | 08 |
STATEMENT OF BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
AS A HOMEGROWN COMPANY FOUNDED TO PROVIDE A MORE NUTRITIOUS
DAIRY ALTERNATIVE TO MALAYSIANS, OPERATING SUSTAINABLY HAS ALWAYS
BEEN CORE TO OUR PURPOSE AT FARM FRESH.
Apart from our central commitment to develop healthy and safe dairy and plant-based products for our
customers, we have a responsibility to produce our products using farming and processing practices that
minimise our impact on the environment, an objective which we are continually making progress towards
through our adoption of sustainable practices across all our farms and the completion of our inaugural carbon
footprint inventory exercise.
At the same time, we aspire to generate shared value between our business and local communities – providing
long-term employment and career advancement opportunities to locals, upskilling our partner-farmers and
supporting micro-entrepreneurs in rural and economically disadvantaged areas. These efforts are in addition
to the youth outreach and CSR programmes which we have developed in-house and in collaboration with
government agencies.
In totality, our sustainability efforts represent a holistic approach to value creation; one that will continue to
deliver sustainable, long-term value for communities, our stakeholders and the planet in proportion with our
expansion as an organisation.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
94
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
This report has been prepared in compliance with the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements and in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) Standards. With guidance from the GRI Standards, the report covers the following
key principles:
Stakeholder
Inclusiveness
Identifying and
addressing our
stakeholders’
expectations
Sustainability
Context
Presenting our
performance in
the wider context
of sustainability
Materiality
Identifying and
prioritising the key
sustainability
issues that the
Group encounters
Completeness
Reporting all
sustainability
topics that are
relevant to the
Group, and which
influence our
stakeholders
SCOPE & BOUNDARY
This report includes all subsidiaries under Farm Fresh Berhad, with an emphasis on
Malaysia due to the concentration of the Group’s operations in the country.
REPORTING PERIOD & CYCLE
This statement covers our sustainability performance for the financial year ended 31
March 2022 (“FY2022”), unless otherwise stated.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
In the continued development of our approach towards sustainability reporting, we
have maintained an internal review methodology for the disclosure of this year’s
Sustainability Statement. As the Group makes further traction within our sustainability
journey, we will firmly consider the adoption of an external assurance for our disclosures
in the near future.
In addition, we have aligned our sustainability practices with the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (“UN SDGs”).
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
95
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
335.0
million litres
of Farm Dairy Effluent (FDE)
recycled and removed from
waste discharge
FY2021: 289.6 million litres
18.8%
of our portfolio comprises
alternative milk products
All our completed Malaysian
farms have received the
Certified Humane®
accreditation
We recorded
zero
work-related fatalities and
serious injuries in FY2022
FY2021: Zero fatalities and
serious injuries
RM
133.9million
in income generated for
stockists, dealers and agents
under our home dealer
programme
FY2021: RM151.5 million
428.8
million litres
of municipal water saved
through rainwater harvesting
and tube well pumping
FY2021: 401.5 million litres
28%
of turnover from products
using fully recyclable,
sustainably sourced packaging
FY2021: 33%
RM
3.2million
in income generated for our
partner-farmers
FY2021: RM8.6 million
The carbon emissions intensity
of our Malaysian farms is
27% lower than the
average Asian dairy farm
72%
of our total workforce across
farms and production facilities
recruited from rural and
underserved communities
FY2021: 72%
86.4 million kg
of solid waste recycled and
removed from waste discharge
FY2021: 64.8 million kg
687,876 kg
of chemical fertiliser removed
from our cycle
FY2021: 573,000 kg
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
96
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
Our sustainability efforts are anchored on the three key focus areas of Better Dairy, Stronger Communities
and Healthier Planet.
Each of these focus areas have been aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN
SDGs”), in line with the The Dairy Declaration of Rotterdam, which recognises the UN SDGs as the overarching
framework for the dairy industry in achieving sustainable development by 2030.
The mapping of the UN SDGs to each focus area and in turn each of our sustainability material matters is
shown below and further explored within this statement.
Better
Dairy
Stronger
Communities
Healthier
Planet
Producing Healthy
Products
Local Economy
Contribution
Regenerative
Agriculture
Animal Health
& Welfare
Employee Welfare
Responsible Water
Stewardship
Food Safety
& Quality
Youth Outreach
Climate
Action
Sustainable
Packaging
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
97
OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
Our stakeholders provide us with insight into the full impact of our business practices, empowering us to
formulate sustainability strategies that balance their needs and those of our business. We practice open dialogue
with each of the groups shown below, with their input being the first step in our detailed materiality determination
process.
Stakeholder Their Expectations Mode and Frequency of Engagement
Customers
Delivering safe, healthy and affordable food
that meets their nutritional needs and taste
preferences at a reasonable price
O Our corporate website
O Our social media channels
P Customer surveys and focus groups
P Face-to-face interactions at roadshows
and other on-ground marketing events
Distributors
Providing full and updated information on
our products, clarity on distribution area and
product resale price, and (specifically for
stockists and dealers under our home dealer
programme) support in business development
and sales
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Circulars and e-mail communication
P Visits and assessments
P Distributor training courses
Employees
Providing a working environment and culture
that is safe and respectful, while offering fair
opportunities for career advancement, skills
development and income growth
P Circulars and e-mail communication
P Employee townhalls
P Training courses
SA Team-building events
A Employee appraisals
Governments
& Regulators
Operating in accordance with all local, state
and federal laws and regulations, while
contributing to national development
through community outreach and knowledge
transfer initiatives
O E-mail communication
O Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Seminars, training sessions and dialogues
P On-site inspections and audits
A Our Integrated Annual Report
Investors &
Shareholders
Ensuring sustainable and profitable long-
term growth while safeguarding against
reputational damage through ethical and
responsible business practices
O IR website
P E-mail communication
P One-on-one meetings
P Investor briefings
P Site visits
P Our quarterly financial result briefings
A Our Annual General Meeting
A Our Integrated Annual Report
Local
Communities
Sharing the economic benefits of our growth
by providing employment and collaborative
business opportunities, while protecting
communities against negative environmental
or social impacts
O Community initiatives and outreach
programmes
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Visits to local communities
Suppliers
Maintaining a fair and robust procurement
system and approach to anti-bribery and
anti-corruption, while supporting the
Malaysian business ecosystem
O E-mail communication
P Face-to-face interactions and calls
P Supplier visits and assessments
O = Ongoing P = Periodically SA = Semi-Annually A = Annually
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
98
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We have developed a comprehensive materiality determination process to provide an objective view on the
issues that are most important towards generating shared value. This process uses the insights provided by
our stakeholders, allied with analysis of prevailing issues, risks and trends that are relevant to the food and
dairy industry and our business, resulting in the identification of sustainability material matters which then
form the basis for our sustainability efforts each year.
MATERIALITY MATRIX
The matrix shown below was generated as a result of our materiality determination process, detailing the
significance of each sustainability material matter to the Group and to our stakeholders.
Determination of Risks
The Audit and Risk Management Committee
develops a robust list of risks specific to the food
and dairy industries and our business, with a focus
on our core market of Malaysia.
Assessment of Business Impact
The Board of Directors conducts a thorough
assessment of each risk, with factors considered
including consumer needs, impacts to communities
where we operate, regulatory concerns and
potential impacts to brand reputation.
Significance to Farm Fresh Berhad
Significance to Stakeholders
Food Safety &
Quality
Producing
Healthy Products
Animal Health &
Welfare
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
Regenerative
Agriculture
Local Economy
Contribution
Youth
Outreach
Employee
Welfare
EMERGING
PRIORITY
HIGH
PRIORITY
Quality Dairy Stronger Communities Healthier Planet
Sustainable
Packaging
Climate
Action
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
99
DETERMINING WHAT MATTERS
MAPPING OUR SUSTAINABILITY MATERIAL MATTERS
The table below describes why each of the sustainability material matters disclosed in this statement is
significant to the Group, and indicates stakeholders which ranked the matter as ‘high priority’ during our
engagements with them.
Sustainability
Material Matter
Why It Matters Who It Matters To
BETTER DAIRY
Producing
Healthy
Products
Producing fresh and healthy dairy and plant-based products is
our core mission as an organisation and our point of difference.
Animal Health
& Welfare
The health of our livestock has a direct impact on the nutritional
value and safety of the products we pass to our customers, and
in turn our reputation and potential for growth.
Food Safety &
Quality
As a dairy producer, we must ensure that our products meet
the highest food safety standards while providing for key
nutritional needs.
STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Local
Economy
Contribution
Many of our farms are located in rural and suburban areas,
where average monthly income is below the national average.
We have the opportunity to empower change and uplift
livelihoods.
Employee
Welfare
Ensuring that our employees can work in a happy, safe
and well nourished environment enhances productivity and the
sustainability of our business.
Youth
Outreach
By enforcing good habits – in life and nutrition – amongst
the youth of today, we can leave a positive legacy that lasts for
generations.
HEALTHIER PLANET
Regenerative
Agriculture
Producing in balance and equilibrium with our natural
environment by adopting regenerative agriculture practices is
the best way to ensure product quality and deliver long-term
impact for the environment and local communities.
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
Our business is farm based, and we have a responsibility to
extract and treat water in ways that minimises our impact on
the environment and on the livelihoods of local communities.
Climate
Action
The agrifood industry is one of the largest contributors to global
greenhouse gas emissions, and carbon emissions are increasingly
becoming a major determinant of consumer purchasing
decisions.
Sustainable
Packaging
Adopting sustainable packaging reduces the ecological footprint
of our products while encouraging our customers to reduce
their environmental impact as well.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
100
DETERMINING WHAT MATTERS
To deliver on our sustainability agenda, we leverage a robust governance structure that provides the necessary
leadership, oversight and accountability for sustainability across the Group.
The Board of Directors (“Board”) forms the highest sustainability governance body within Farm Fresh Berhad.
The Board is supported by the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), who are responsible for
identifying risks related to sustainability.
Based on risks and potential topics identified by the ARMC, the Board plans to select key sustainability material
matters that form the pillars of our sustainability initiatives each year. The ARMC then forms working groups
to mobilise strategies and initiatives addressing the specific sustainability material matters selected by the
Board. These working groups may comprise members of the Board, members of key management, and
employees whose work scope aligns with the topic in question. Through well-established data management
processes, outcomes of strategies are then reported by working groups to the ARMC, who then report directly
to the Board.
Finally, the Board plans to conduct quarterly reviews of the Group’s sustainability roadmap, priorities and key
challenges, assessing how the individual sustainability working groups are implementing its sustainability
strategies against targets set.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Highest governance body
Audit and Risk Management
Committee
Sustainability
Working Groups
Identification
of potential
sustainability
risks for board
consideration
Delegation of management
of sustainability topic to
appointed working group
Nomination of
committee
members
Approval of
sustainability
topics, based upon
risks identified
comprising of
members of
individual
departments/
divisions/
operating
companies
2
4
3
1
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
101
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Better
Dairy
1
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
102
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
Since our founding, producing healthy dairy has been our core
mission, reflected in our tagline of “Dairy, Just As Nature Intended”.
Over the years, consumers have come to associate our brands
with dairy and plant-based products that are free of preservatives,
unnatural colourings and other foreign substances, and maintaining
this commitment is critical to executing on our expansion plans
and delivering value over the long-term.
·
· 100% of our products are free from
preservatives, artificial colourings and
flavourings, and other foreign
substances
·
· 100% of our products meet endorsed
nutritional guidelines
·
· 18.8% of our portfolio of products
comprise alternative milk products
to cater to a wider range of
preferences and dietary requirements
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Adopting an Integrated Supply Chain
As a fully vertically integrated dairy producer with a presence from farming to distribution, we are uniquely
placed to accurately monitor the quality of our products and its ingredients. Accordingly, all our products meet
the highest food and safety standards, leveraging a healthy dairy livestock who are treated in line with recognised
animal welfare practices (see ‘Food Safety & Quality’ and ‘Animal Health & Welfare’ for more).
The oversight capabilities we have developed have in turn enabled us to successfully launch a satellite network
of partner-farmers to whom we provide training on our processes and standards. Through ongoing mentorship,
frequent seminars and technical support provided to these farmers, we have been able to transfer our knowledge
to the growing Malaysian dairy farming community and increase our production capacity while maintaining our
high standards in nutritional quality.
Developing Complementary Nutrition Products
As consumer preferences and dietary requirements continue to evolve, alternative milk products and plant-based
milks are capturing a growing market share. Supported by our strong research and development capabilities,
we have responded proactively, becoming the first company to launch organic milk, kurma milk, lactose-free
milk, oat milk and almond milk products within the Malaysian market. Free from preservatives and colourings,
just like our dairy varieties, these new additions to our product range are equally nutrient-dense, providing high
quality protein, vitamins and minerals in an easily absorbable form. Furthermore, many are available in UHT/
ambient varieties, maximising their shelf life and hence their reach outside larger population centres.
Future Plans
·
· We will continue to explore ways to enhance the nutritional and functional benefits offered by all our
products and carry out further research and development into new dairy and plant-based recipes.
·
· We will further drive awareness and uptake of our products amongst children and families, aided by
our strategic penetration into school canteens and our impending development of a fresh-milk based
formula milk for children aged two to six years old.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
103
PRODUCING HEALTHY PRODUCTS
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
Our animals are the foundation of our success. By ensuring that
they are well looked after, comfortable and nutritiously fed, we
are not only taking care of their health and that of their offspring,
but the long-term health of our business.
·
· All our farms adhere to the Group’s
Good Animal Husbandry Practices
(GAHP)
·
· All our completed Malaysian farms
have received the Certified Humane®
accreditation
·
· 60% of our cows across all farms have
access to tunnel-ventilation barns
·
· 95.9% of our cows across all farms
have access to dry sand-bedded
areas for relaxation
All our farms adhere to the Group’s Good Animal Husbandry Practices (GAHP), which sets out specific and
strict practices in animal health care, nutrition and housing. The code was developed in line with the
Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices (myGAP) and the World Organisation for Animal Health’s guidelines.
Moreover, we continuously research, develop and implement animal health and welfare practices that are
optimised to tropical climates, maximising the wellbeing and comfort of our herd while increasing their
raw milk output, yield and longevity. These best practices trickle down to our network of partner-farmers,
raising standards in livestock rearing across the country.
Animal Feed Practices
To ensure that our entire herd receives a ration that is well balanced nutritionally, we employ a total mixed
ration feeding regime. Different in-house feed formulas are developed for different members of our herd,
taking into consideration their specific nutritional needs and their point in the breeding cycle.
The bulk of our feed mix is comprised of grass planted on-site at our farms, which are free of pesticides
and are organically fertilised using animal waste broken down through the process of vermicomposting.
This sustainable practice not only reduces the animal waste we generate but also produces more nutritious
feed for our cows. A variety of farm-grown and pesticide-free crops, including corn, soybean, and palm
kernel, are also added to the mix for volume and nutritional balance.
Animal Healthcare Practices
At each of our farms we have designated teams responsible for animal healthcare, including veterinarians
as well as animal science and husbandry graduates, and led by an Animal Health Compliance Manager.
The responsibility of these teams is to provide veterinary care for the entire herd, including delivery of
newborns and medical treatment of sick animals, and to carry out daily health checks on all members of
our herds.
A major part of their work is in caring for cow hoofs. Hoof care is a major contributor to cow health,
ensuring their ability to move between milking parlour, feed bunk and watering holes in comfort. To
optimise hoof health, all cows have their hoofs trimmed twice per year – 60 days before giving birth and
120 days after giving birth – to ensure that their weight is properly distributed on all four legs and to
prevent hoof lesions.
All our completed Malaysian farms have received the Certified Humane® accreditation from Humane Farm
Animal Care, a globally-recognised non-profit certification programme aimed at improving the lives of farm
animals. We are the first player in Asia to receive this certification and we intend to obtain similar
certifications for our Taiping farm and for our farms in Australia.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
104
ANIMAL HEALTH & WELFARE
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
Animal Welfare Practices
Our Australian Friesian-Sahiwal and Holstein Jersey cows are not native to Malaysia, and are particularly
susceptible to stresses from heat and humidity which can lower feed intake, milk production and reproductive
efficiency. To mitigate against these risks, we have implemented a variety of solutions to maximise comfort
inside and outside barns.
To keep our cows cool enough to produce abundant milk, tunnel ventilation barns have been installed at
all our farms. All barns are equipped with soakers that spray water on the cows at six regular intervals
throughout the day, further enhancing cow comfort. All cows also have access to clean and comfortable
dry sand bedded areas where they can eat, drink and relax freely, while cows at our Australia-based farms
are allowed to graze on grass outside their barn.
Our efforts to maximise animal welfare are aided by our animal breeding processes, whereby our dedicated
IVF unit continually conducts research and development with the objective of optimising the genetic mix
of our cows, enabling the breeding of cows ideally suited to our harsh tropical climate.
Driving Innovation in Animal Health and Welfare
With the aim of developing improved practices for the health and welfare of our cows and contributing
to best practices in our region, we continually engage in fruitful collaborations with tertiary institutions
and scientific research firms. These collaborations serve to lower the cost of herd medicinal care, shift
resources to preventive care, and to improve yields through increased animal wellbeing and productivity.
Collaboration Objective Intended Long-Term Outcome
Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development
Institute (MARDI)
Research the potential of local herbs
as a remedy to control bovine mastitis
in cows.
Adopt local herbs as a sustainable
and organic disease control solution,
substituting the use of clinical drugs.
Bayer Malaysia Research the effect of Catosal™ on
milk yield in peak- and late-lactation
stage cows. Catosal™ is a source of
Vitamin B12 and phosphorus for the
prevention or treatment of deficiencies
of these nutrients in animals
Increase milk productivity while
ensuring that our cows remain
strong, healthy and well-nourished
with important nutrients.
Universiti Putra Malaysia
(UPM)
Investigate the relationship between
claw trimming and claw health, animal
welfare and milk production.
Establish best practices in claw
trimming that are specific to our
climactic conditions, and that
can be applied across our farms.
Future Plans
·
· We will continue to invest in state-of-the-art animal health and welfare technologies at all our farms
while furthering our collaborations with tertiary institutions and research firms to develop improved
animal health and welfare practices catered to tropical climates.
·
· We will share the outcomes of our R&D activities with the Malaysian government under the National
Dairy Industry Development (NDID) programme with the aim of empowering positive impact across the
industry.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
105
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
The quality and safety of our products is core not only to our
sustainability agenda but our business as a whole. By maintaining
the highest and most stringent standards in our farming,
production and distribution processes, we have been able to
deliver nutritional benefit to our customers, grow trust in our
products and deliver a stronger impact for local communities
through our continued growth and expansion.
·
· 100% of our processing facilities
across Malaysia and Australia are
operated in accordance with the
GMP and HACCP food safety and
quality principles
·
· All our staff in our processing facilities
are trained in GMP and HACCP food
safety practices
·
· We have had no product recalls due
to safety reasons since 2014
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
As a fully vertically integrated dairy company, we maintain strong oversight of our inputs, processes and
outputs across the value chain with minimal reliance on external suppliers. Even dairy that has been
acquired from outside the Group predominantly comes from our satellite network of partner-farmers, who
adhere strictly to our processes and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
In alignment with international standards, all our processing facilities in Malaysia and Australia adhere to
the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP) control system and the Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP), with all our staff in our processing facilities trained in GMP and HACCP food safety practices.
Adoption of Local and International Standards
All our farms and processing facilities have been certified against the following standards and systems:
·
· The Halal certification – an international accreditation certifying that all of our products are prepared by
Halal methods.
·
· The Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices (myGAP) – a comprehensive certification scheme introduced
by the Malaysian Department of Agriculture for the agricultural, aquaculture and livestock sector. The
scheme recognises farms which adhere to the Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) resource management
system, which provides practices that ensure high levels of food safety.
·
· The Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) – a set of standards that encapsulate the essential principles
of food hygiene and safety in the food processing industry. The standards are defined and certified by
the Malaysian Ministry of Health’s section for food safety and quality.
·
· The Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP) – a management system that assists with the control
of biological, chemical, and physical hazards across the production chain, from procurement and production,
to manufacturing, distribution and consumption.
·
· The Quality Assurance Programme (QAP) – a management education programme for total quality
management formulated and implemented by the Department of Veterinary Services, under the Malaysian
Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-Based Industry. The QAP is specific to the livestock industry, and
encapsulates specific codes of practice at all levels of the supply chain.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
106
FOOD SAFETY & QUALITY
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
The Farm Fresh Food Safety Management System
Building upon the controls established by the HACCP and GMP standards, our in-house food safety
management system includes the following key controls amongst others:
Action Frequency
Review of critical control points (CCP) monitoring record
and implementation of corrective actions
Daily
Checking of clearning and maintenance activity records Weekly
HACCP team meetings Twice monthly
Testing of raw materials and finished products Quarterly
Review of HACCP plan Half-yearly and every time a report is made
Checking of mock recall reports Yearly
Supplier audits Yearly
Full internal audits Yearly
Management review meetings Yearly and as deemed necessary
A dedicated food safety management team, comprising an HACCP team leader, maintenance supervisors,
internal auditors, Quality Assurance (QA) professionals and our production managers, are responsible for
the implementation of the system. The team is independent of our operational teams and have the
authority to initiate additional processes and actions as they deem necessary including:
·
· Mock product recalls
·
· Random samplings of products
·
· Laboratory-based chemical analyses of products
·
· Gap analyses of staff training and knowledge standards with respect to food safety
·
· Evaluations of comformity to national-level food safety regulations
·
· Review of food safety documentation
·
· Customer complaint reviews
The food safety management team are also responsible for overseeing the regular maintenance of existing
equipment to ensure they are functioning to the highest possible standards.
Biosecurity Practices
Cognisant of the major risk that any outbreak of diseases poses to our herd and our business, we have
adopted strict herd biosecurity measures across all our farms in adherence with our GAHP manual and
the practices outlined by the myGAP certification.
In line with its attendant practices, all cows at our Malaysian farms are given vaccinations for Foot and
Mouth Disease (FMD), while global biosecurity risks are consistently monitored to advise the addition of
further vaccinations as may be deemed necessary.
Future Plans
·
· We aim to have 100% of our processing facilities attain the FSSC 22000 certification – a standard
recognised by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) – by the end of 2022.
·
· We will step up our work with our partner-farmers to implement HACCP and GMP standards across all
farms that supply dairy to the Group.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
107
Stronger
Communities
2
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
108
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
Within Malaysia, our products reach many suburban and rural
areas, the majority of which are underserved and suffer from a
lack of economic opportunities. As a vertically integrated dairy
producer, we have the responsibility to provide sustainable
employment opportunities within these communities and
empower people through skills development and education
programmes. Doing so generates shared value that uplifts these
regions while aiding our business objectives.
·
· 72% of our total workforce across our
farms and processing facilities were
recruited from rural and underserved
communities
·
· 116 students from local universities
and colleges have benefitted from
our internship programmes
·
· We have 45 stockists, 900 home
dealers and 1,772 agents within our
home dealer programme
·
· 80% of the micro-entrepreneurs
within our home dealer programme
are women
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Rural Employment and Talent Development
Across our operational footprint, we have adopted a “local first” policy, where we first seek to fulfil staffing
requirements within local communities before exploring options available in key urban markets. Presently,
72% of our total workforce across our farms and processing facilities have been recruited from rural
communities within Malaysia, including 11 from within the indigenous Orang Asli community.
We have also developed a range of talent development programmes that provide a pathway for local
graduates to become productive members of our workforce. Our range of internship programmes include
collaborations with reputable universities and colleges, providing internships and potential fulltime
employment to 116 high-performing students since 2019.
In 2021, we collaborated with the East Coast Economic Region Development Council (ECERDC) to launch
the Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme, providing Orang Asli children with educational and financial
support from primary to university level. The first pilot batch of the programme included the top 20 Orang
Asli students at Standard 5 and Standard 6 levels across five local schools in the district of Rompin, and
we aim to ensure that 80% of the selected students successfully pursue university studies and 100% go
on to work with us in future.
Uplifting Local Farmers
With the aim of promoting fair pricing for local farmers and cost-effectively meeting our dairy sourcing
demands, we set up a satellite network of partner-farmers based in rural areas of Malaysia whose dairy
we would purchase for sale under the Farm Fresh brand. This is more than a supplier-buyer relationship,
with partner-farmers availed of knowledge transfer opportunities through mentorship and able to access
technical support from the Group at all stages of the production process.
Since 2011, we have met our dairy sourcing needs using this network, paying our partner-farmers rates a
fair market price for raw milk and helping to raise national dairy production levels in line with the Malaysian
government’s aspiration for domestic consumption in this sector to be self-sufficient by the year 2025.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
109
LOCAL ECONOMY CONTRIBUTION
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
The Farm Fresh Home Dealer Programme
In 2016, we established our home dealer programme, a first-of-its-kind distribution network spanning rural
regions in Malaysia that do not have a major grocery store or supermarket. The network not only enabled
us to expand the reach of our products, but has also provided sustainable income generating opportunities
to micro-entrepreneurs in underserved areas. Presently, we have 45 stockists, 900 home dealers and 1,772
agents across all states in Malaysia, of which 80% are women. These independent contractors distribute
Farm Fresh and Yarra Farm products within their communities, earning income on a commission basis
while educating their friends and family on the nutritional benefits of dairy products.
As part of our commitment to their professional development, we conduct frequent seminars and courses
for our stockists, ensuring that they are fully up to date on our product range, pricing and their distribution
area. We also launched an e-commerce website in 2019 called Farm Fresh Mart which supports the sales
efforts of stockists and home dealers. The website details home dealers and their agents by location and
availability of stock, providing customers with the option of either purchasing our products online from
the home dealer or agent, calling a home dealer or agent directly, or heading to the nearest stockist or
home dealer to purchase our products. As a result, it has assisted significantly in the business development
efforts of our stockists and dealers.
Thanks to the home dealer programme, stockists can earn up to RM25,000 a month while home dealers
can generate a monthly income of up to RM5,000, a significant improvement on average salaries in these
regions. Meanwhile, our sales to stockists within the network comprised 30% of our total revenue in FY2022,
evidence that the programme has delivered a strong impact on our bottom line.
Furthermore, we received the ASEAN Inclusive Business Award in 2020 as a testament to the positive
social benefits that we have provided through our home dealer programme.
Future Plans
·
· We plan to expand the Farm Fresh Scholarship Programme to an additional 24 schools in Pahang
pending the completion of our pilot year
·
· With the growth of our product portfolio, we will further expand our home dealer programme through
roadshows and other outreach avenues, providing additional income generation opportunities across
Malaysia
·
· We will develop strategies to increase female representation within the home dealer network, with an
emphasis on enabling economic empowerment and financial freedom for housewives
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
110
LOCAL ECONOMY CONTRIBUTION
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
Healthy and nutritious food has a major role to play in the
development of future generations, and as Malaysia’s leading
homegrown dairy company we are uniquely positioned to inculcate
better consumption habits, starting at school.
·
· We have engaged students from
64 schools under the Amalan
Perkhidmatan Kantin Terbaik
campaign since 2018
·
· We have distributed 6,178,020 packets
of milk to 205,934 students across
2,987 schools under the Rancangan
Makanan Tambahan supplementary
food programmes
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Since 2018, we have stewarded two ongoing school programmes that are aligned with our vision of
promoting better nutrition and health amongst youth.
Amalan Perkhidmatan Kantin Terbaik
Translating to ‘Best Canteen Service Practices’, Amalan Perkhidmatan Kantin Terbaik was created by the
Malaysian Ministry of Education and aims to raise awareness on the importance of healthy, safe, and
hygienic food practices in schools while educating students about the importance of consuming foods
that are free of preservatives, colourings and added sugar. The campaign addresses the increasing incidence
of obesity amongst Malaysia, harnessing a school-wide effort involving students and teachers, canteen
operators, and Parents and Teachers Associations (PIBG) to impact change at a young age.
We have participated in Amalan Perkhidmatan Kantin Terbaik since 2018, and have engaged with a total
of 64 schools within this time period.
Rancangan Makanan Tambahan (RMT)
Since 2018, we have also participated in the Malaysian Ministry of Education’s supplementary food
programmes which provide free meals to primary school students from rural areas and low-income
households. Through our involvement, we supply 200ml UHT chocolate milk packets for every RMT meal,
playing our part to meet the nutritional requirements for physical growth and mental development.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
111
YOUTH OUTREACH
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
The majority of our employees are based in our farms and
processing facilities, facing occupational hazards that involve
dealing with heavy machinery, working with livestock in high
heat and humidity, and engaging in construction or repair
work. Our commitment to them is to make their work as safe
as possible by aligning our practices with international
standards in occupational health and safety measures, while
providing employee healthcare, subsidised meals, and a holistic
employee experience that caters to the development of the
whole person.
·
· We recorded zero work-related
fatalities and serious injuries in
FY2022
·
· Our employees received an average
of 4 hours of safety and health
training in FY2022
·
· 100% of our employees are covered
by our Safety Management System
and our Safety, Health and
Environmental Policy
·
· S u b s i d i s e d m e a l s a n d f r e e
accommodation are provided to 80%
and 50% of farm employees
respectively
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Our approach to employee welfare encompasses implementing robust occupational health and safety
systems for all staff across our farms and processing facilities, and providing housing and resources for
sustainable and healthy living to our farm-based employees.
Establishing the Farm Fresh Safety Management System
To cater to the unique challenges that our workplaces pose our employees, we developed a Safety
Management System (SMS) and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Policy in accordance with Malaysian
regulations and laws, including:
·
· Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) 1994
·
· Use and Standard of Exposure Chemical Hazardous to Health (USECHH) 2000
·
· Control of Industrial Major Accident Hazards (CIMAH) 1996
·
· Environmental Quality Act 1974: Environmental Quality (Prescribed Premises) (Scheduled Wastes Treatment
and Disposal Facilities) Order 1989 and 2006
·
· Fire Services Act 1988
This management system and policy encompasses safe work practices for functions across our operations,
in line with international and national-level standards including:
·
· MS 1722:2003
·
· OHSAS 18001
·
· ISO 1400
Implementing Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC) Procedures
Our HIRARC procedures provide an important control mechanism when carrying out potentially hazardous
activities, with specific procedures outlined for operating and conducting maintenance on machines
enforced across all farms and production facilities. Furthermore, additional measures have been implemented
to ensure that emerging hazards are detected early, including:
·
· Periodic safety audits of processing facilities
·
· Chemical exposure monitoring to measure and control exposure to hazardous chemicals
·
· Annual audiometric testing carried out on employees working at our processing facilities to measure
noise exposure and its effects on hearing
·
· Establishing internal Emergency Response Teams (ERT) to evacuate employees and fight fires in the
event of an emergency
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
112
EMPLOYEE WELFARE
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
Our HIRARC procedures are overseen by dedicated safety officers, who monitor personnel safety and
conduct periodic safety audits of our factory premises to ensure that they are maintained as a safe
environment of work.
In addition, employees are provided with occupational first aid training, Confined Space training, forklift
handling training, reachtruck handling training and Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Determining
Control (HIRADC) training according to the demands of their role, while Personal Protection Equipment
(PPE) is given to employees wherever necessary to ensure their safety. The orientation programme offered
to all new employees also includes a comprehensive safety awareness component.
Engaging In Dialogue with Our Employees
Our Safety, Health & Environment Committee has several key responsibilities:
·
· Carrying out regular inspections of workplaces, including specific inspections of machinery, equipment,
substances, appliances and processes employed in the course of work
·
· Investigating any workplace accidents, near miss accidents, dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning
and occupational diseases, and to report any significant findings and recommended corrective actions
to the management
·
· Assisting in the development of safety and health rules, and safe systems of work
·
· Reviewing the effectiveness of existing safety and health policies and recommending revisions where
necessary
The committee includes employer and employee representatives, facilitating meaningful dialogue on health
and safety issues while providing an avenue for emerging risks to be elevated to the attention of the
management.
Encouraging Sustainable Living
Through our farms, we aim to support the economic advancement of rural communities (see ‘Local
Economy Contribution’ for more), and our commitment in this area extends to providing our farm-based
employees with meal subsidies and free accommodation. Presently, subsidised meals and free accommodation
are provided to 80% and 50% of farm employees respectively. These employees are also provided with
access to vegetables and fish grown and reared on-site to nourish their daily meals.
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
113
Healthier
Planet
3
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
114
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
Our farms span a total of 5,416 acres of land, a large footprint
that encompasses landbanks in close proximity to protected
natural environments and local communities. As such, it is vital
that we adopt circular farming practices which minimise external
and unnatural inputs, reduce the waste we generate, and nourish
the land upon which we produce. By doing this, we can accrue
value across our value chain, from the health of our livestock to
the nutritional benefits enjoyed by our customers, while protecting
our landbanks from degradation.
·
· 34.3 million kg of organic fertiliser
produced from animal waste
·
· 335.0 million litres of FDE recycled
and removed from waste discharge
·
· 86.4 million kg of solid waste recycled
and removed from waste discharge
·
· 687,876 kg of chemical fertiliser
removed from our production cycle
·
· 267.7 acres of farmland irrigated by
recycled FDE
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Since 2014, we have progressively implemented regenerative agriculture practices at our Muadzam Shah
and UPM farms which are geared towards two key outcomes:
1 Minimising non-recyclable organic waste generated
2 Maximising the use of natural resources that we have access to
To achieve circularity in our farming practices, we strive to remove our dependency on external inputs
such as chemical fertilisers and instead use waste generated by our herd to fulfil key functions, as the
chart below shows.
Specifically, through a process of vermicomposting, we utilise treated solid waste to form part of the mix
for animal bedding, increasing our herd comfort and health, and as organic fertiliser for grass grown at
both farms, which in turn forms a major component of the feed provided to our cows. We also treat liquid
animal waste to aid with pasture irrigation and use it together with recycled rainwater for the washing
and flushing of our barns.
Through the adoption of these practices, we have diverted animal waste discharge from landfills and
sewerage systems, indirectly reducing the amount of methane released into the environment through
landfill decomposition and the use of chemicals to treat waste in the sewerage systems. Concurrently, we
benefit from a reduced reliance on external sources of water for our operations, and usage of chemical
fertilisers, which are known to degrade soil health.
Sedimentation Phytoremediation Slow Sand Filtration
Rainwater Harvesting
Microbial
Vermifiltration
Pasture
Irrigation
Barn Washing
& Flushing
Vermi-Composting
Organic
Fertiliser
Compost
Bedding
COWS
Solid Separation
Solid Waste Farm Dairy Effluent (FDE)
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
115
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
The table below outlines the regenerative agricultural practices we have adopted and the benefits they
enable in greater detail:
Function Processes Undertaken Benefits
Compost
Bedding
African Nightcrawler worms are used to break
down solid waste produced by our cows into
vermicompost (worm castings), which is then
used as part of the mix for the bedding of
our cows.
·
· Promotes claw health and creates a
comfortable environment for cows
·
· After 5 to 6 months of composting,
the bedding becomes the perfect
feed for vermiculture composting
·
· Minimises waste discharge that
enters the drainage system
Organic
Fertiliser
The vermicompost produced from solid waste
is also spread over our pasture as an organic
fertiliser for grass, which in turn forms a major
component of the feed provided to our cows.
·
· Reduces the usage of chemical
fertilisers, which are known to
degrade soil health
·
· Minimises waste discharge that
enters the drainage system
·
· Improves physical characteristics of
the soil such as water holding
capacity, aeration and porosity, all
of which benefit soil fertility
·
· Using organic fertiliser results in
more nutritious feed for our cows
Barn Washing
and Flushing
After solid separation, the Farm Dairy Effluent
(FDE) that is isolated undergoes three major
processes:
1. It is filtered by sitting in sedimentation ponds.
This process uses gravity to split and remove
any remaining solids from the liquid waste
2. Phytoremediation uses living plants to
effectively treat the effluent against
contaminants and excess nutrient content
3. Finally, the effluent goes through a slow
sand water purification process that removes
turbidity and pathogenic organisms
The resulting water is then used in tandem
with recycled rainwater for the washing and
flushing of our barns.
·
· Reduces reliance on external sources
of water
·
· Minimises waste discharge that
enters the drainage system
·
· Minimises contamination of
groundwater and surface water by
reducing the amount of toxic waste
released into the environment
Pasture
Irrigation
FDE can also be used for irrigating our pasture,
provided that it goes through microbial
vermifiltration after the solid separation and
sedimentation processes.
Vermifiltration is a biological wastewater
treatment process that uses composting
worms to treat water, with the output being
water that is suitable for watering pasture.
·
· Filtered FDE contains beneficial
nutrients for plant growth, feeding
a positive cycle that in turn leads to
more nutritious feed for our cows
and produce for our customers
·
· The use of irrigation ponds mean
that our pastures can be adequately
watered even during the dry season,
thus producing nutritious grass all
year round
Future Plans
·
· We aim to implement regenerative agriculture practices across all our farms within the next three years
·
· We aim to launch our first biogas plant at our Muadzam Shah farm, which will utilise animal waste to
produce biofuel for our operations, thereby reducing our carbon footprint
·
· We will develop an action plan to implement regenerative agriculture practices at all farms operated by
our partner-farmers
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
116
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
The sustainable extraction and discharge of water is central to
maintaining the health of our soil and the long-term quality of
our products. In addition, our farms and processing facilities are
located in close proximity to local communities who depend on
the land for their livelihoods. As a result, we have a responsibility
to lessen our disruption to the natural water table and minimise
water-based discharge that enters local waterways.
Water withdrawn by
source
FY2022
(megalitres)
Municipal sources* 2,883.8
Groundwater and
Surface water (incl.
tube well pumping,
rainwater, water from
rivers)
428.8
Total 3,312.6
*
Includes 2,397 megalitres from our Australian
farms, where there are no groundwater and
surface water sources available for extraction.
·
· 428.8 million litres of municipal water
saved per year through tube well
pumping and rainwater harvesting
·
· 13% reduction in municipal water
usage due to adoption of tube well
pumping and rainwater harvesting
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
We aim to minimise our extraction of surface and municipal water, and have consciously invested in new
technologies that allow us to harness rainwater and groundwater in serviceable volumes. Our efforts are
aided by our adoption of regenerative agriculture practices (see ‘Regenerative Agriculture’ for more), which
utilise treated liquid animal waste for use in barn washing and pasture irrigation, minimising our reliance
on the water table for our needs.
Harnessing Groundwater and Rainwater
We have installed rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping systems across all our farms, reducing our
use of municipal water by a total of 428.8 million liters.
By extracting groundwater found at the bottom of the water table, tube well pumping reduces the impact
of our water withdrawal needs on surface water, which is a crucial resource for soil health and neighbouring
farms. Additionally, groundwater is more easily available year round and less susceptible to droughts,
meaning that during such occurrences we are less reliant on municipal water as a backup resource.
Meanwhile, our rainwater harvesting systems channel rainwater for use in barn washing and flushing,
irrigation, the washing of our herd and the maintenance of our farm-based machinery.
The Role of Regenerative Agriculture Practices
Untreated animal waste poses a major threat to water sources, with the potential for contamination that
would affect the entire dairy production value chain. By introducing regenerative agriculture practices
which treat solid and liquid animal waste for use across key functions, we have effectively distanced water
from animal waste and mitigated against this risk.
In total, our regenerative agriculture practices remove 86.4 million kg of solid waste and 335.0 million litres
of liquid waste per year from potential entry into the water table and local waterways.
Future Plans
·
· We will continue to scale up our rainwater harvesting and tube well pumping systems with the goal of
attaining a 60% reduction in the use of municipal water by 2025, compared to peak levels
·
· We will develop an action plan to implement sustainable water withdrawal and management strategies
at all farms operated by our partner-farmers, in addition to implementing regenerative agriculture
practices at these farms
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
117
RESPONSIBLE WATER STEWARDSHIP
WHY IT MATTERS:
OUR PERFORMANCE1:
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, 31% of all human-caused
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions come from agrifood systems. This includes emissions from farming and land
use, food production and the food supply chain, all of which apply to our operations.
Therefore, as an environmentally responsible organisation, it is incumbent upon us to seek out and implement
sustainable measures to reduce our carbon footprint, including by introducing renewable sources to our energy
mix. In doing so, we can set an impactful example in environmental management as a leader within the Malaysian
and regional dairy farming communities.
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Our emissions come from a variety of sources including methane from enteric fermentation, nitrous oxide
from fertilisers, carbon dioxide from tillage, and the burning of fossil fuels to power our processes and
maintain machinery across our farms and processing facilities.
In seeking to reduce our footprint, we have implemented regenerative agriculture practices (see ‘Regenerative
Agriculture’ for more) across our Muadzam Shah and UPM farms, before taking our efforts further with our
inaugural carbon emissions inventory which was conducted in 2021. The exercise helped us identify actionable
strategies to further reduce emissions which we are progressively introducing across our value chain.
Description Daily Spread Compost % Decrease
Amount of manure discharged (kg N) 42,619 19,440 54.4
GHG Emissions (tCO
2
eq/year) 307 146 52.5
Reduced Emissions Due to Transition From Daily Spread to Composting of Manure
The table below shows the substantial decrease in untreated manure discharged into the environment,
and its corresponding reduction in GHG emissions, as a result of our transition from daily spread to
composting of cow manure.
Our Australian farms have an emissions
intensity of
0.7kgco2e/kg FPCM
(47% lower than the average of dairy
farmer in Oceania)
Our Malaysian farms have an emissions
intensity of
2.4kgco2e/kg FPCM
(27% lower than 2015 average of dairy
farms in Asia)
FPCM = fat and protein corrected milk
Benchmarking of Our Emissions Against Dairy Farms in Asia and Oceania2
Total Emissions (tCO2eq)
by Scope
Total Emissions (tCO2eq)
by Farms/Manufacturing Plants
Total Emissions (tCO2eq)
by Country of Operation
Malaysia Australia
74%
26%
Total Absolute
GHG Emissions
47,339
tCO2eq
Farms Manufacturing
Plants
Total Absolute
GHG Emissions
47,339
tCO2eq
67%
33%
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
76%
1%
23%
Total Absolute
GHG Emissions
47,339
tCO2eq
1	
Carbon footprint exercise completed in July 2021 by an external consultant, based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Agriculture Guidance.
2	
Based on comparison with report issued by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and Global Dairy Platform Inc. in 2019.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
118
CLIMATE ACTION
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
Reducing Nitrous Oxide Emissions
As part of our regenerative agriculture practices, we use treated animal waste for pasture fertilisation.
Normally, pasture fertilisation would necessitate the use chemical fertilisers, leading to the release of Nitrous
Oxide – a Greenhouse Gas. Therefore, by using vermicompost as a substitute we have been able to reduce
our emissions and improve soil quality at the same time, leading to nutritionally superior feed for the
benefit of our cows at a lower cost to the environment.
Nitrous Oxide is also released from untreated waste matter, so by reusing animal waste for productive
purposes we have enabled a further reduction to our farm-based emissions.
Adopting Renewable Energy
Leveraging our regenerative agricultural practices, we are set to launch our first biogas plant at our
Muadzam Shah farm by 2023. The plant – our first renewable energy source – will use animal waste to
produce biogas which will displace diesel usage for our boilers, accelerating the decarbonisation of our
operations, and will be followed by an additional biogas plant at our Taiping farm. We already have solar
PV running in both our Muadzam Shah and Larkin facilities, and a further one currently being planned
for our Taiping facility.
In totality, our progressive introduction of renewable energy is helping us reduce our dependence on the
Malaysian national power grid. We aim to become a net energy producer in the mid-to-long-term, allowing
us to sell the excess energy we generate back to the grid at a profit and open a new and sustainable
revenue stream.
Undertaking A Group-wide Carbon Inventory
In July 2021, we completed a Group-wide carbon footprint inventory exercise based on the GHG Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, covering the period of January 1 to December 31 2020,
across our farms and processing facilities in both Malaysia and Australia.
The exercises covered all three emissions scopes:
·
· Scope 1 GHG emissions, comprising mainly direct emissions from machinery, equipment and motor
vehicles operated at our farms and processing facilities, as well as enteric fermentation, manure
management, and soil management at the farms
·
· Scope 2 GHG emissions, including indirect emissions related to the electricity purchased and consumed
by the machinery and equipment at the farms and processing facilities
·
· Scope 3 GHG emissions, comprising mainly indirect emissions that are not recognised in Scope 2 plus
emissions from business travel including by car, train and flight
In addition to enabling the development of emissions reduction strategies (see the ‘Future Plans’ section
for more), the findings of the inventory exercise revealed that the emissions intensity of our Malaysian and
Australian farms are 27% and 47% lower than the average of dairy farms in Asia and Oceania respectively
(both based on a 2015 averages), providing a strong base upon which to achieve further improvements.
Future Plans
Based on the insights provided by our carbon footprint inventory exercise, we have identified a variety of
strategies to further reduce our Group-wide carbon footprint, including:
·
· Replacing existing anaerobic lagoons with anaerobic digestion tanks at our Muadzam Shah Farm, enabling
us to use our farm-sourced manure to produce biofuel
·
· Installing solar thermal systems to reduce the use of diesel for our boiler and generator units
·
· Installing biogas and solar energy generation systems across various farms and processing facilities, as
explained above
Looking forward, we target for our initiatives to achieve a 25% reduction in our Group-wide GHG emissions
over the next five years (an average reduction of 5% per annum).
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
119
WHY IT MATTERS: OUR PERFORMANCE:
As a producer of packaged goods, we have a duty to consider a
variety of sustainability issues including the origin and volume of
the raw materials used, the environmental impact of processes
used to manufacture the packaging, the recyclability of the
packaging and the ability of the packaging to contribute to food
waste reduction. Each of these factors carries a large potential
ecological footprint.
Moreover, consumers are more environmentally aware than ever
and are increasingly choosing FMCG brands based on their
sustainability credentials, of which packaging is one of the most
visible.
·
· 28% of our turnover comes from
products that use fully recyclable,
FSC® Forest Stewardship Council
certified packaging
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES:
Our commitment to sustainable packaging starts with using packaging that is sustainably sourced – that
is, sourced from rainforests which are sustainably and sensitively managed. Doing this means that we are
limiting the long-term impact that our products have on the depletion of these resources.
The second part of our commitment, which we are currently developing further, is to lower the footprint
of our products after consumption by promoting recycling. While we are transitioning towards using fully
recyclable materials for all our product varieties, we also want to play a bigger role in recycling awareness
and adoption, especially amongst younger generations.
Adopting Sustainably Sourced and Recyclable Packaging
In 2018, we adopted Tetra Pak paper packaging for our UHT products which is made from 75% paper, 20%
plastic, 5% aluminium and is 100% recyclable. Furthermore, all paperboard used in the solution is FSC®
Forest Stewardship Council certified and fully traceable, coming from FSC® certified forests and other
controlled sources.
By purchasing Tetra Pak packaging, we are supporting the socially, environmentally and economically
sound management of forests. Key aspects of Tetra Pak’s commitment also include:
·
· Identifying and upholding indigenous peoples’ legal and customary rights of ownership, use and
management of land, territories and resources affected by activities
·
· Contributing to maintaining or enhancing the social and economic wellbeing of local communities
·
· Maintaining and conserving ecosystem services and environmental values in the area of impact
Moving forward, we strive to ensure that all packaging suppliers we work with have a similarly robust
commitment and action plan relating to sustainable packaging. We will achieve this by developing area-
specific sustainability criteria for suppliers with a focus on ingredients and packaging materials, and by
evaluating a significant portion of our key suppliers according to detailed sustainability assessment templates
that include sustainable packaging.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
120
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
OUR ACTIONS & INITIATIVES: (CONT’D.)
Inculcating Recycling Practices Amongst Malaysians
Recyclable packaging only serves its purpose when it is recycled, and we have developed an awareness
strategy that aims to inculcate recycling as a part of everyday life amongst Malaysians.
By working with Tetra Pak, we have opened a recycling education centre at our UPM farm. The purpose
of the centre is to build awareness of the recyclability of our packaging and educate consumers on how
they can adopt simple and effective recycling habits within their homes and workplaces.
We have also engaged with youth through the Used Beverage Cartons (UBC) Recycling Contest, which
aims to develop an awareness of the circular economy amongst school-going children. The programme
reached a total of 64 schools across Malaysia.
Future Plans:
·
· We intend to increase our use of sustainably sourced Tetra Pak packaging to cover more of our packaging
requirements, including our 200ml and 1L sizes
·
· We strive to launch sustainability-linked supplier criteria within the next two to three years, which will
include criteria on sustainably sourced packaging
·
· We will continue to invest in creating school-based campaigns that educate youth on the importance
of recycling
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | Section  06   Sustainability Statement | 07 | 08 |
121
124 Directors’ Report
130 Statement by Directors
130 Statutory Declaration
131 Independent Auditors’ Report
135 Statements of Financial Position
136 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income
137 Statements of Changes in Equity
139 Statements of Cash Flows
142 Notes to the Financial Statements
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are investment holding, rearing of dairy cows and the production,
marketing, sale of cow’s milk and plant-based related products. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are
disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these
activities during the financial year.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 79,886,892 29,448,909
Non-controlling interests (1,321,546) –
78,565,346 29,448,909
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except as disclosed in the financial statements.
DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The
Directors recommended a final dividend of 1.07 sen per ordinary share totalling RM19,971,723 in respect of
the year ended 31 March 2022 subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed final dividend, which will be accounted for in the
statement of changes in equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending 31 March
2023.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
124
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 March 2022
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Directors Alternate
Mr. Loi Tuan Ee
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin
bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas
(appointed on 25 September 2021)
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin bin A. Hassan Nizam
(appointed on 25 September 2021)
Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt
(appointed on 25 September 2021)
Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
(appointed on 25 September 2021)
Ms. Loi Foon Kion
(appointed on 25 September 2021)
Mr. Effizal Faiz bin Zulkifly
(appointed on 18 April 2022)
Mr. Loi Tuan Kin
(resigned on 25 September 2021)
En. Azmi bin Zainal
(resigned on 25 September 2021)
En. Amran Hafiz bin Affifudin
(resigned on 25 September 2021)
Mr. Tan Chow Yin
(resigned on 25 September 2021)
En. Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan
(resigned on 25 September 2021)
Ms. Tan Mei Shwen Serena Mr. Effizal Faiz bin Zulkifly ^
(resigned on 18 April 2022) (resigned on 25 September 2021)
^ Resigned as alternate Director on 25 September 2021 and appointed as Director on 18 April 2022 respectively.
The names of the Directors of subsidiaries are set out in the respective subsidiaries’ financial statements and
the said information is deemed incorporated herein by such reference and made a part hereof.
125
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The interests and deemed interests in the shares and options over shares of the Company and of its related
corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end (including
the interests of the spouses or children of the Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company)
as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
At
1 April 2021/
date of
appointment Bought Sold
At
31 March
2022
Shareholdings in the Company which Directors have
direct interests:
Loi Tuan Ee 1 – – 1
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin
bin Datuk Seri Dr Haji Megat Khas – 500,000 – 500,000
Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin bin A. Hassan Nizam – 500,000 – 500,000
Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng – 500,000 – 500,000
Number of ordinary shares
At
1 April 2021/
date of
appointment Bought
Bonus
issues Sold
Dividend
in specie
At
31 March
2022
Shareholdings in the Company
which the Directors have
deemed interests:
Loi Tuan Ee 59,500,000 902,300 1,085,000,135 (293,556,700) (23,633,900) 828,211,835
Loi Foon Kion 39,666,668 – 723,333,447 (191,988,600) – 571,011,515
By virtue of their interests in the shares of the Company, Mr. Loi Tuan Ee and Ms. Loi Foon Kion are deemed
to have interests in the ordinary shares of all the wholly-owned of subsidiaries of the Company as disclosed
in Note 7 to the financial statements.
None of the other Directors holding office at 31 March 2022 had any interest in the shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to
receive any benefit (other than those fees and other benefits included in the aggregate amount of remuneration
received or due and receivable by Directors as shown in the financial statements of the Company or of related
corporations) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with
a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial
interest other than disclosed in Note 32 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the
Company or any other body corporate apart from the issue of the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”)
of the Company.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
126
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
ISSUE OF SHARES
During the financial year, the Company issued the following shares:
a) Bonus issue of 1,550,000,138 ordinary shares at NIL consideration without capitalising the retained
earnings or reserves.
The bonus issue was completed and shares were credited as fully paid-up on a pro rata basis to the
existing shareholders based on their respective shareholdings in the Company such that their effective
shareholding in the Company will be the same before and after the bonus issue.
b) 222,954,700 ordinary shares as part of the Initial Public Offering at RM1.35 per ordinary share.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up any unissued shares of the Company during the financial
year apart from the issue of options pursuant to the ESOS.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 21 March 2022, the Company’s shareholders approved the
establishment of the ESOS of not more than 15% of the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital of the
Company to eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The salient features of the ESOS are as follows:
a) The ESOS is administered by a committee appointed by the Board of Directors.
b) The aggregate number of options exercised and options offered and to be offered under the ESOS shall
not exceed fifteen per centum (15%) of the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company at
any point of time during the duration of the ESOS and shall not be more than ten per centum (10%) of
the ordinary shares available under the ESOS shall be allocated to any eligible employee who, either singly
or collectively through his or her associates, holds twenty per centum (20%) or more of the issued and
paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company.
c) The eligible employee must be at least eighteen (18) years of age, is not an undischarged bankrupt nor
subject to any bankruptcy proceedings, must have been confirmed in service, and has not given any notice
of resignation or received a notice of termination or has otherwise ceased or had his/her employment
terminated.
d) The subscription price for each ordinary share shall be the weighted average market price of the shares
of the Company as shown in the Daily Official List issued by Bursa Securities for the five (5) market days
immediately preceding the date of the offer with a discount of not more than ten per centum (10%).
e) The option is personal to the grantee and is non-assignable.
f) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of ten (10) years commencing from the Effective Date (21 March
2022), after which the Board shall have the sole and absolute discretion to extend in writing the tenure
of the ESOS for another five (5) years, in so long that the tenure does not exceed the maximum duration
of a share issuance scheme allowed by the relevant authorities.
127
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COSTS
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Group and
of the Company during the financial year.
QUALIFICATION OF SUBSIDIARIES’ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The auditors’ reports on the audited financial statements of Company’s subsidiaries did not contain any
qualification or any adverse comments.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that:
i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision has been made for doubtful debts,
and
ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been written
down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading, or
iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely to
become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion
of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their
obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the Directors, except for the impairment losses provided for property, plant and equipment
and reversal of tax in respect of year of assessment 2021 recognised in the financial year ended 31 March
2022, as disclosed in Note 3 and Note 22 respectively, the financial performance of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 have not been substantially affected by any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred
in the interval between the end of that financial year and the date of this report.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
128
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
AUDITORS
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
………………………………….......…….......……..........
Loi Tuan Ee
Director
………………………………….......…….......……..........
Loi Foon Kion
Director
Date: 21 July 2022
129
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 135 to 210 are drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as of 31 March 2022 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
………………………………….......…….......…….......... ………………………………….......…….......……..........
Loi Tuan Ee Loi Foon Kion
Director Director
Date: 21 July 2022
I, Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of FARM
FRESH BERHAD, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 135 to 210
are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing
the declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan, NRIC: 790605-11-5353,
MIA CA 40828 at Johor Bahru in the State of Johor on 21 July 2022.
………………………………….......…….......……..........
Mohd Khairul bin Mat Hassan
Before me:
Lau Lay Sung
Commissioner for Oaths
J-246
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
STATUTORY DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
130
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Farm Fresh Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 March 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 135 to 210.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 March 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for
the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of biological assets - Group and Company
Refer to Note 2(g) - Significant accounting policies, and Note 5 - Biological assets.
The key audit matter
The Group and Company held RM92 million and RM34 million of biological assets respectively, comprising
cows, goat herds and bulls, measured at fair value less cost to sell as at 31 March 2022. In determining the
fair value of the biological assets, the Group and the Company used replacement cost approach and comparison
approach. We have identified the valuation of biological assets as a key audit matter because the determination
of the fair values required significant judgement in determining the price per head of comparable breed,
weight, age group and foreign exchange rate.
131
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others:
• We performed physical counting of biological assets;
• We evaluated the valuation techniques adopted in estimating the fair value with reference to the
requirements of relevant accounting standards, our business understanding and industry practice;
• Checked the key inputs used in the valuation to biological assets report as at year end;
• We evaluated the judgement and the key assumptions pertaining to the price per head of comparable
breed, weight, age group and foreign exchange rate against market data; and
• We assessed the adequacy of disclosure in the financial statements in respect of this matter.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing
to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of
the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
132
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad`
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report
to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to
the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company
to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relations and other matters that may reasonably
be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards
applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
the public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
133
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad`
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in the Note 7 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.
KPMG PLT Tan Teck Eng
(LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758) Approval Number: 02986/05/2024 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Johor Bahru
Date: 21 July 2022
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
134
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Farm Fresh Berhad`
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 339,570,028 307,068,897 106,282,619 96,120,337
Right-of-use assets 4 14,820,525 15,819,769 3,636,093 3,368,938
Biological assets 5 95,709,674 69,459,099 34,204,770 27,134,170
Intangible assets 6 20,001,224 19,894,919 2,808,116 2,403,888
Investments in subsidiaries 7 – – 121,370,861 96,411,191
Trade and other receivables 8 740,429 1,077,338 – –
Deferred tax assets 9 9,469,156 3,352,750 – –
Due from subsidiaries 10 – – 67,200,000 18,478,972
Total non-current assets 480,311,036 416,672,772 335,502,459 243,917,496
Inventories 11 118,844,819 105,034,639 36,473,751 35,953,609
Trade and other receivables 8 100,248,170 88,796,172 32,531,102 21,472,301
Due from subsidiaries 10 – – 50,598,012 22,063,278
Current tax assets 393,813 31,070 24,000 –
Derivative financial assets 12 1,518,875 – 2,668 –
Other investments 13 280,594,613 – 260,108,202 –
Cash and cash equivalents 14 28,103,066 11,723,637 9,565,273 6,632,114
Total current assets 529,703,356 205,585,518 389,303,008 86,121,302
Total assets 1,010,014,392 622,258,290 724,805,467 330,038,798
Equity
Share capital 15 380,607,443 87,779,796 380,607,443 87,779,796
Reserves 15 225,335,994 146,863,517 89,872,359 60,423,450
Equity attributable to owners of the
Company 605,943,437 234,643,313 470,479,802 148,203,246
Non-controlling interests 7 5,019,430 6,386,645 – –
Total equity 610,962,867 241,029,958 470,479,802 148,203,246
Liabilities
Deferred income 16 6,496,730 6,768,263 6,496,730 6,768,263
Loans and borrowings 17 232,316,928 101,014,756 201,319,373 24,717,931
Lease liabilities 5,919,368 6,159,799 4,209,312 3,999,703
Deferred tax liabilities 9 7,711,483 5,801,597 5,698,000 4,538,000
Total non-current liabilities 252,444,509 119,744,415 217,723,415 40,023,897
Deferred income 16 270,697 269,861 270,697 269,861
Loans and borrowings 17 52,300,841 140,927,921 4,157,198 50,880,656
Trade and other payables 18 93,075,548 83,078,535 28,470,582 19,530,030
Due to subsidiaries 10 – – 3,392,734 70,930,753
Lease liabilities 959,930 854,653 311,039 46,023
Current tax liabilities – 36,352,947 – 154,332
Total current liabilities 146,607,016 261,483,917 36,602,250 141,811,655
Total liabilities 399,051,525 381,228,332 254,325,665 181,835,552
Total equity and liabilities 1,010,014,392 622,258,290 724,805,467 330,038,798
135
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 March 2022
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Revenue 19 501,921,211 490,498,015 216,066,203 211,810,803
Cost of sales (365,576,725) (349,612,502) (163,193,610) (147,972,965)
Gross profit 136,344,486 140,885,513 52,872,593 63,837,838
Other income 14,820,037 9,021,458 4,681,006 2,756,103
Selling and distribution expenses (32,002,783) (37,522,166) (7,207,734) (11,587,121)
Administrative expenses (35,997,008) (27,060,280) (12,601,060) (7,438,391)
Other expenses (7,655,695) (7,979,608) (802,724) (84,496)
Results from operating activities 75,509,037 77,344,917 36,942,081 47,483,933
Finance income 20 1,266,915 228,033 2,502,736 52,663
Finance costs 21 (11,091,593) (9,984,341) (8,124,598) (4,414,959)
Net finance costs (9,824,678) (9,756,308) (5,621,862) (4,362,296)
Profit before tax 65,684,359 67,588,609 31,320,219 43,121,637
Tax credit/(expense)
– Current tax and deferred tax 2,390,954 (9,052,257) (1,871,310) (2,343,000)
– Additional tax for prior years 22.1 – (25,708,582) – –
– Reversal of tax 22.1 10,490,033 – – –
Total tax credit/(expense) 22 12,880,987 (34,760,839) (1,871,310) (2,343,000)
Profit for the year 23 78,565,346 32,827,770 29,448,909 40,778,637
Other comprehensive (expense)/
income, net of tax
Items that are or may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences/
Other comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year (1,460,084) 10,061,944 – –
Total comprehensive income for the
year 77,105,262 42,889,714 29,448,909 40,778,637
Profit/(Loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 79,886,892 36,228,078 29,448,909 40,778,637
Non-controlling interests (1,321,546) (3,400,308) – –
Profit for the year 78,565,346 32,827,770 29,448,909 40,778,637
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 78,472,477 45,353,427 29,448,909 40,778,637
Non-controlling interests (1,367,215) (2,463,713) – –
Total comprehensive income for the
year 77,105,262 42,889,714 29,448,909 40,778,637
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 24 4.87 2.22
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
136
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 March 2022
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
Non-
controlling
interests
RM
Group
Note
Share
capital
RM
Translation
reserve
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
RM
Total
equity
RM
At 1 April 2020 87,779,796 (5,101,207) 106,611,297 189,289,886 8,475,424 197,765,310
Foreign currency translation differences
for foreign operations/
Total other comprehensive income for
the year – 9,125,349 – 9,125,349 936,595 10,061,944
Profit/(Loss) for the year – – 36,228,078 36,228,078 (3,400,308) 32,827,770
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
for the year – 9,125,349 36,228,078 45,353,427 (2,463,713) 42,889,714
Contributions by and distributions to
owners of the Company
Capital contribution by non-controlling
interests/
Total transactions with owners of
the Company – – – – 374,934 374,934
At 31 March 2021 87,779,796 4,024,142 142,839,375 234,643,313 6,386,645 241,029,958
At 1 April 2021 87,779,796 4,024,142 142,839,375 234,643,313 6,386,645 241,029,958
Foreign currency translation differences
for foreign operations/
Total other comprehensive expense
for the year – (1,414,415) – (1,414,415) (45,669) (1,460,084)
Profit/(Loss) for the year – – 79,886,892 79,886,892 (1,321,546) 78,565,346
Total comprehensive (expense)/income
for the year – (1,414,415) 79,886,892 78,472,477 (1,367,215) 77,105,262
Contributions by and distributions to
owners of the Company
Shares issued for the Public Issue 15 300,988,845 – – 300,988,845 – 300,988,845
Shares issuance expenses for the Public
Issue 15 (8,161,198) – – (8,161,198) – (8,161,198)
Total transactions with owners of the
Company 292,827,647 – – 292,827,647 – 292,827,647
At 31 March 2022 380,607,443 2,609,727 222,726,267 605,943,437 5,019,430 610,962,867
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
137
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 March 2022
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-
distributable Distributable
Company
Note
Share
capital
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Total
equity
RM
At 1 April 2020 87,779,796 19,644,813 107,424,609
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – 40,778,637 40,778,637
At 31 March 2021/1 April 2021 87,779,796 60,423,450 148,203,246
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – 29,448,909 29,448,909
Contributions by and distributions to owners of the
Company
Shares issued for Public Issue 15 300,988,845 – 300,988,845
Shares issuance expenses 15 (8,161,198) – (8,161,198)
Total transactions with owners of the Company 292,827,647 – 292,827,647
At 31 March 2022 380,607,443 89,872,359 470,479,802
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
138
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONT’D)
 For the year ended 31 March 2022
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 65,684,359 67,588,609 31,320,219 43,121,637
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation:
– property, plant and equipment 26,738,344 19,973,666 9,864,574 7,653,229
– intangible assets 233,301 203,309 11,178 6,944
– right-of-use assets 1,600,997 1,236,926 233,330 189,838
Finance income (1,266,915) (228,033) (2,502,736) (52,663)
Finance costs 11,091,593 9,984,341 8,124,598 4,414,959
(Reversal of impairment loss)/
Impairment loss on:
– property, plant and equipment 78,635 4,212,235 – –
– trade receivables (86,020) 609,145 – –
Written off of:
– property, plant and equipment 145,844 – – –
– other receivables – 411,486 – –
– obsolete and slow-moving
inventories 840,027 614,402 258,907 245,522
Gain on disposal of property, plant
and equipment (120,672) (462,667) – –
Amortisation of deferred income (270,697) (266,476) (270,697) (266,476)
Gain arising from changes in fair
value of dairy cows and goats (9,949,771) (4,321,205) (3,187,395) (2,274,532)
Fair value (gain)/loss of:
– derivative financial instruments (1,518,875) – (2,668) –
– other investments 35,124 – 202,728 –
Dividend income from other
investments (629,737) – (310,930) –
Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign
exchange 449,662 (105,526) 87,747 18
Operating profit before changes in
working capital 93,055,199 99,450,212 43,828,855 53,038,476
Change in deferred income – 451,681 – 451,681
Change in inventories (13,927,037) (64,524,686) (55,879) (18,999,571)
Change in trade and other
receivables (11,029,069) (9,032,092) (11,057,266) (7,916,799)
Change in trade and other payables 9,547,351 33,150,750 8,884,620 6,159,237
Change in due from/(to) a
subsidiary – – (144,827,131) (1,689,952)
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations 77,646,444 59,495,865 (103,226,801) 31,043,072
Interest received 1,266,915 228,033 2,502,736 52,663
Tax paid (29,711,427) (56,355) (889,642) (22,931)
Net cash from/(used in) operating
activities 49,201,932 59,667,543 (101,613,707) 31,072,804
139
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 March 2022
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of:
– property, plant and equipment 28 (60,311,001) (75,093,964) (20,075,311) (27,040,096)
– biological assets (25,078,330) (14,966,322) (21,490,000) (11,880,919)
– intangible assets (429,154) (3,470,961) (415,406) (2,410,832)
– right-of-use assets (110,164) – – –
Proceeds from disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 1,082,128 1,072,950 48,455 –
– biological assets 8,025,796 6,797,196 16,883,625 8,525,370
Increase in investment in a subsidiary – – (24,959,670) (20,445,910)
Net investment in other investments (280,000,000) – (260,000,000) –
Net cash used in investing activities (356,820,725) (85,661,101) (310,008,307) (53,252,387)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (8,275,112) (6,832,257) (5,422,081) (1,261,363)
Proceeds from shares issued 15 292,827,647 – 292,827,647 –
Drawdown of Sukuk 200,000,000 – 200,000,000 –
Drawdown of term loan – 21,887,430 – 21,000,000
Repayment of term loans (49,448,263) (8,787,733) (18,010,224) –
Net proceeds from:
– bankers’ acceptances (20,229,429) 23,144,766 (6,423,757) 3,944,086
– revolving credits (4,074,000) 4,074,000 (4,074,000) 4,074,000
– short-term financing (107,420) 1,020,765 – –
Repayment of hire purchase liabilities (37,226,699) (9,883,070) (10,088,227) (3,183,580)
Capital contributed by a minority
shareholder – 374,934 – –
Repayment of lease liabilities (956,485) (515,654) (241,582) (296,190)
Repayment of loan from a shareholder (34,012,603) – (34,012,603) –
Net cash from financing activities 338,497,636 24,483,181 414,555,173 24,276,953
Exchange difference on translation of
the financial statements of foreign
operation (227,078) (561,738) – –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and
cash equivalents 30,651,765 (2,072,115) 2,933,159 2,097,370
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April (2,548,699) (476,584) 6,632,114 4,534,744
Cash and cash equivalents at
31 March 14 28,103,066 (2,548,699) 9,565,273 6,632,114
Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
Included in net cash from operating
activities
Payment relating to short-term leases 23 4,745,774 2,781,426 – –
Payment relating to leases of low-
value assets 23 34,841 24,051 18,140 8,388
Included in net cash from financing
activities
Payment of lease liabilities 956,485 515,654 241,582 296,190
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 21 329,686 249,129 215,722 140,993
Total cash outflows for leases 6,066,786 3,570,260 475,444 445,571
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
140
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 March 2022
Reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
Group
At
1 April
2020
RM
Net changes
from
operating
cash flows
RM
Net changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
Derecognition
of lease
RM
Exchange
difference
RM
At
31 March
2021/
1 April 2021
RM
Net changes
from
operating
cash flows
RM
Net changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
Exchange
difference
RM
At
31 March
2022
RM
Term loans 49,775,004 – 13,099,697 – – 5,793,153 68,667,854 – (49,448,263) – (493,316) 18,726,275
Bankers’ acceptances 38,277,559 – 23,144,766 – – 757,233 62,179,558 – (20,229,429) – (61,600) 41,888,529
Revolving credits – – 4,074,000 – – – 4,074,000 – (4,074,000) – – –
Hire purchase liabilities 21,668,435 – (9,883,070) 43,790,778 – 2,074,428 57,650,571 – (37,226,699) 504,284 (382,777) 20,545,379
Lease liabilities 5,038,016 139,481 (515,654) 2,869,468 (548,975) 32,116 7,014,452 329,686 (956,485) 500,485 (8,840) 6,879,298
Loan from a shareholder 31,000,000 3,012,603 – – – – 34,012,603 – (34,012,603) – – –
Short term financing – – 1,020,765 – – 64,990 1,085,755 – (107,420) – (7,544) 970,791
Sukuk – – – – – – – 2,486,795 200,000,000 – – 202,486,795
Total liabilities from financing
activities 145,759,014 3,152,084 30,940,504 46,660,246 (548,975) 8,721,920 234,684,793 2,816,481 53,945,101 1,004,769 (954,077) 291,497,067
Company
At
1 April
2020
RM
Net changes
from
operating
cash flows
RM
Net changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
Derecognition
of lease
RM
At
31 March
2021/
1 April 2021
RM
Net changes
from
operating
cash flows
RM
Net changes
from
financing
cash flows
RM
Acquisition
of new
assets
RM
At
31 March
2022
RM
Bankers’ acceptances 2,479,671 – 3,944,086 – – 6,423,757 – (6,423,757) – –
Hire purchase liabilities 8,991,354 – (3,183,580) 4,280,453 – 10,088,227 – (10,088,227) – –
Lease liabilities 3,200,071 140,993 (296,190) 1,552,341 (551,489) 4,045,726 215,722 (241,582) 500,485 4,520,351
Loan from a shareholder 31,000,000 3,012,603 – – – 34,012,603 – (34,012,603) – –
Revolving credits – – 4,074,000 – – 4,074,000 – (4,074,000) – –
Term loans – – 21,000,000 – – 21,000,000 – (18,010,224) – 2,989,776
Sukuk – – – – – – 2,486,795 200,000,000 – 202,486,795
Total liabilities from financing activities 45,671,096 3,153,596 25,538,316 5,832,794 (551,489) 79,644,313 2,702,517 127,149,607 500,485 209,996,922
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
141
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 March 2022
Farm Fresh Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed
on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The addresses of the principal place of business and
registered office of the Company are as follows:
Principal place of business
Plot D, KM6
Jalan Muadzam – Rompin
26700 Muadzam Shah
Pahang Darul Makmur
Registered office
Suite 1301, 13th Floor
City Plaza, Jalan Tebrau
80300 Johor Bahru
Johor
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 comprise the
Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually referred to as “Group entities”).
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 do not include
other entities.
The principal activities of the Company are investment holding, rearing of dairy cows and the production,
marketing, sale of cow’s milk and plant-based related products. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are
disclosed in Note 7.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 July 2022.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments of the MFRSs that have
been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been adopted by
the Group and the Company:
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2022
• Amendments to MFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (Annual
Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)
• Amendments to MFRS 3, Business Combinations – Reference to the Conceptual Framework
• Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards
2018−2020)
• Amendments to Illustrative Examples accompanying MFRS 16, Leases (Annual Improvements to
MFRS Standards 2018−2020)
• Amendments to MFRS 116, Property, Plant and Equipment − Proceeds before Intended Use
• Amendments to MFRS 137, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets − Onerous
Contracts − Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
• Amendments to MFRS 141, Agriculture (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
142
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023
• MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts – Initial application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 –
Comparative Information
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Classification of Liabilities as
Current or Non-current and Disclosures of Accounting Policies
• Amendments to MFRS 108, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors –
Definition of Accounting Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 112, Income Taxes – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date
yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate
or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards, interpretations
and amendments in the respective financial year when the above accounting standards, interpretations
and amendments become effective, if applicable.
The initial application of the accounting standards, interpretations and amendments are not expected
to have any material financial impacts to the current period and prior period financial statements of
the Group and the Company upon their first adoption.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis other than as disclosed in
Note 2.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional
currency. All financial information is presented in RM, unless otherwise stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these
estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods
affected.
143
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Use of estimates and judgements (continued)
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting
policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements other than
those disclosed in the following:
• Note 4 – right-of-use assets
• Note 5 – valuation of biological assets
• Note 6 – measurement of the recoverable amounts of cash-generating units
• Note 9 – deferred tax assets
• Note 22 – tax expense
• Note 27.4 – measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
financial statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities, unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. The financial
statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control
commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over
the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such rights
are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee when, despite
not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the
investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at
cost less any impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution.
The cost of investment includes transaction costs.
(ii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition date,
which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For new acquisitions, the Group measures the cost of goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest
in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
144
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(a) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(ii) Business combinations (continued)
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests
in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net
assets at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that
the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in
a loss of control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders.
Any difference between the Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any
consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or against Group reserves.
(iv) Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit
arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted investee or as a financial asset depending
on the level of influence retained.
(v) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not
attributable directly or indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented in the
consolidated statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity within equity,
separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-controlling interests in
the results of the Group is presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for
the year between non-controlling interests and owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling
interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
(vi) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
145
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group
entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting
period are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the
end of the reporting date, except for those that are measured at fair value which are retranslated
to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for
differences arising on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair
value through other comprehensive income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow
hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
In the financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to
a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange
gains and losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment
in a foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented in
the foreign currency translation reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
The assets and liabilities of operations denominated in functional currencies other than RM,
including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at
exchange rates at the end of the reporting period. The income and expenses of foreign operations,
are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated
in the FCTR in equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the
relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling
interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint
control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign operation is reclassified
to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign
operation, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling
interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investment in an associate that includes
a foreign operation while retaining significant influence or joint control, the relevant proportion
of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
146
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments
(i) Recognition and initial measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statement of financial position when,
and only when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or a
financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance.
A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction
price.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract
is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely
related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is
not measured as fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded
derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to the
nature of the host contract.
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business
model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on
the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the business model.
The categories of financial assets at initial recognition are as follows:
(a) Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model
whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding. The financial assets are not designated as fair value
through profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by
impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are
recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit or loss.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount
except for credit impaired financial assets (see Note 2(j)(i)) where the effective interest rate
is applied to the amortised cost.
147
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (continued)
Financial assets (continued)
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
All financial assets not measured at amortised cost are measured at fair value through profit
or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a derivative that is a designated
and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group or the Company may
irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured
at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income as at fair value
through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch
that would otherwise arise.
Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured
at their fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised
in the profit or loss.
All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are subject to
impairment assessment (see Note 2(j)(i)).
Financial liabilities
The categories of financial liabilities at initial recognition are as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss
On initial recognition, the Group or the Company may irrevocably designate a financial liability
that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised cost as at fair value
through profit or loss:
(a) if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would
otherwise arise;
(b) a group of financial liabilities or assets and financial liabilities is managed and its
performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk
management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided
internally on that basis to the Group’s key management personnel; or
(c) if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host is not a financial
asset in the scope of MFRS 9, where the embedded derivative significantly modifies the
cash flows and separation is not prohibited.
Financial liabilities categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured
at their fair value with gains or losses, including any interest expense are recognised in the
profit or loss.
For financial liabilities where it is designated as fair value through profit or loss upon initial
recognition, the Group and the Company recognise the amount of change in fair value of
the financial liability that is attributable to change in credit risk in the other comprehensive
income and remaining amount of the change in fair value in the profit or loss, unless the
treatment of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an
accounting mismatch.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
148
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (continued)
Financial liabilities (continued)
(b) Amortised cost
Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss.
Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
(iii) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable,
using trade date or settlement date accounting in the current year.
Trade date accounting refers to:
(a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date,
and
(b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
Settlement date accounting refers to:
(a) the recognition of an asset on the day it is received by the Group or the Company, and
(b) derecognition of an asset and recognition of any gain or loss on disposal on the day that is
delivered by the Group or the Company.
Any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period between the trade
date and the settlement date is accounted in the same way as it accounts for the acquired asset.
Generally, the Group or the Company applies settlement date accounting unless otherwise stated
for the specific class of asset.
(iv) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured
at higher of:
• the amount of the loss allowance; and
• the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
149
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Financial instruments (continued)
(v) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to the
cash flows from the financial asset expire or transferred, or control of the asset is not retained
or substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred to
another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount
of the financial asset and the sum of consideration received (including any new asset obtained
less any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. A financial liability is also derecognised when
its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are substantially different, in
which case, a new financial liability based on modified terms is recognised at fair value. On
derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any
non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
(vi) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the consolidated
statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has
a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net
basis or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation
and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any
other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use,
and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are
located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and direct labour.
For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy
on borrowing costs. Cost also may include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying
cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised
as part of that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives,
they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by
comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment
and is recognised net within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
150
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised
in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied
within the component will flow to the Group or the Company, and its cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is derecognised to profit or loss. The
costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or
loss as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of
individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the
remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they
are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Property, plant and equipment under
construction are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
Buildings 14 – 25 years
Farm barn, building and electrical installation 5 – 33 years
Milk plant, machinery, tools and equipment 5 – 10 years
Office and shop equipment and design 5 – 20 years
Agrotourism farm 5 – 10 years
Motor vehicles 5 – 10 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting period,
and adjusted as appropriate.
(e) Leases
(i) Definition of a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an identified
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys
the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset - this may be specified explicitly or implicitly,
and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically
distinct asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified;
• the customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of
the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the customer has the right to direct the use of the asset. The customer has this right when
it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose
the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset
is used is predetermined, the customer has the right to direct the use of the asset if either
the customer has the right to operate the asset; or the customer designed the asset in a way
that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.
151
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases (continued)
(i) Definition of a lease (continued)
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group
allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on the basis
of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of properties in which the Group is a
lessee, it has elected not to separate non-lease components and will instead account for the
lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement
date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount
of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement
date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove
the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less
any lease incentives received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are
not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease
or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental
borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their incremental borrowing rate as the
discount rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentives receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the
index or rate as at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise;
and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to
terminate early.
The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of
the underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which the performance or use occurs.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
152
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases (continued)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement (continued)
(b) As a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a
finance lease or an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers
substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If
this is the case, then the lease is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.
In an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15
to allocate the consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.
The Group recognises assets held under a finance lease in its consolidated statement of
financial position and presents them as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment
in the lease. The Group uses the interest rate implicit in the lease to measure the net
investment in the lease.
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and
the sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to
the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset.
If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described
above, then it classifies the sublease as an operating lease.
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or
the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined
on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use
asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements
of the lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an
index or rate, if there is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change
in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value
guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase,
extension or termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying
amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of
the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group recognises finance income over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a
constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net investment in the lease. The Group aims to
allocate finance income over the lease term on a systematic and rational basis. The Group applies
the lease payments relating to the period against the gross investment in the lease to reduce
both the principal and the unearned finance income. The net investment in the lease is subject
to impairment requirements in MFRS 9, Financial Instruments (see Note 2(j)(i)).
153
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on business combinations is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment
losses.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, that acquired by the Group which have infinite useful lives,
are measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
(iii) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits
embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including expenditure
on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iv) Amortisation
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised but are tested for
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use. Amortisation
is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
Trademarks 10 years
Software 5 years
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period and adjusted, if appropriate.
(g) Biological assets
(i) Dairy cows and goats
The Group’s biological assets comprise dairy herds, bulls and dairy goats. The biological assets
are measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently at the end of the reporting period
at their fair value less costs to sell, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss for
the year in which it arises.
The feeding costs, incurred for raising of heifers and calves are capitalised, until such time as the
heifers and calves begin to produce milk.
The Group determines whether an active or other effective market exists for a biological asset in
its present location and condition, and whether there is a quoted price in that market as the
appropriate basis for determining the fair value of that asset. If an active market does not exist
then the Directors use one of the following valuation methods, when available, in determining
fair value:
• the most recent market transaction price, provided that there has not been a significant
change in economic circumstances between the date of that transaction and the end of the
reporting period; or
• market prices, in markets accessible to the entity, for similar assets with adjustment to reflect
differences.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
154
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(g) Biological assets (continued)
(ii) Semen and embryos
Semen and embryos are stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated
impairment losses, where applicable.
Cost includes expenditure that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any
other costs directly attributable to bringing the assets for its intended use.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in first-out method, and includes expenditure
incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in
bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of work-in-progress and finished
goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly
liquid investments which have an insignificant risk of changes in fair value with original maturities of
three months or less, and are used by the Group and the Company in the management of their short
term commitments. For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash
equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits.
(j) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial
assets measured at amortised cost and lease receivables. Expected credit losses are a probability-
weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit loss, except for cash and bank balance for which credit risk has not increased significantly
since initial recognition, which are measured at 12-month expected credit loss. Loss allowances
for trade receivables and lease receivables are always measured at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the Company consider
reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or
effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the
Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-looking
information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses are the portion
of expected credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the 12 months
after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses
is the maximum contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to
credit risk.
155
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment (continued)
(i) Financial assets (continued)
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a
provision matrix with reference to historical credit loss experience.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in
profit or loss and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance
account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost are credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events
that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have
occurred.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent
that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the
Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial
assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with
the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery amounts due.
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amounts of other assets except for inventories, deferred tax assets, lease receivables
and biological assets are reviewed at the end of the reporting period to determine whether there
is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount
is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not
yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each period at the same time.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of other assets or cash-generating units. Subject to an operating segment ceiling test,
for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, cash-generating units to which goodwill has
been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment testing is performed reflects
the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. The goodwill
acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to a cash-
generating unit or a group of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies
of the combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and
its fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating
unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-generating
unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of
cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated
to the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying
amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of cash-generating units) on a
pro rata basis.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
156
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Other assets (continued)
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment
losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last
impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net
of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment
losses are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.
(k) Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised
in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised
directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment
to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position and
their tax bases. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: arising from
the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is
not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred
tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when
they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the
reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same
taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities
on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at
the end of each reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
the related tax benefit will be realised.
Unutilised reinvestment allowance and other similar incentives, being tax incentives that is not a tax
base of an asset, is recognised as a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that the future
taxable profits will be available against the unutilised tax incentive can be utilised.
(l) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in
exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf
of third parties. The Group or the Company recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control
over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains
control of the asset.
157
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(l) Revenue and other income (continued)
(i) Revenue (continued)
The Group or the Company transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless one
of the following over time criteria is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group or
the Company performs;
(b) the Group’s or the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer
controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s or the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use
and the Group or the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance
completed to date.
(ii) Dairy cows/goats and milk
Milk is initially measured at its fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs at the time of milking.
The amount so determined is subsequently carried as the cost of inventory.
The net gain or loss arising from changes of fair value of dairy cows/goats or death is included
in other income/other expenses accordingly.
(iii) Government grant
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable
assurance that they will be received and the Group or the Company will comply with the conditions
associated with the grant; they are then recognised in profit or loss as other income on a systematic
basis over the useful life of the asset.
(iv) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Group’s or the Company’s
right to receive payment is established, which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend
date.
(v) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss
except for interest income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically
for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with the
accounting policy on borrowing costs.
(vi) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the
total rental income, over the term of the lease. Rental income from sub-leased properties is
recognised as other income.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
158
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(m) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets,
which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use
or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are
necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing
costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying
asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
(n) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
subsequently.
(i) Issue expense
Costs directly attributable to issue of equity instruments are recognised as a deduction from
equity.
(ii) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(o) Compound financial instruments
A compound financial instrument is a non-derivative financial instrument that contains both a liability
and an equity component.
Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible notes that can be converted
to share capital at the option of the holder, when the number of shares to be issued does not vary
with changes in their fair value.
The proceeds are first allocated to the liability component, determined based on the fair value of a
similar liability that does not have a conversion feature or similar associated equity component. The
residual amount is allocated as the equity component. Any directly attributable transaction costs are
allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component of a compound
financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Interest and losses and gains relating to the financial liability are recognised in profit or loss. On
conversion, the financial liability is reclassified to equity; no gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
159
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(p) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave
and sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service
is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short term cash bonus or
profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount
as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Group’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial
year to which they relate. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a
cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
The grant date fair value of share-based payment granted to employees is recognised as an
employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees
unconditionally become entitled to the awards. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted
to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions
are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on
the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at
the vesting date.
For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the
share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences
between expected and actual outcomes.
The fair value of the employee share options is measured using a Black Scholes model. Measurement
inputs include share price on measurement date, exercise price of the instrument, expected
volatility (based on weighted average historic volatility adjusted for changes expected due to
publicly available information), weighted average expected life of the instruments (based on
historical experience and general option holder behaviour), expected dividends, and the risk-free
interest rate (based on government bonds). Service and non-market performance conditions
attached to the transactions are not taken into account in determining fair value.
(q) Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted
for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the
effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise convertible notes and share options
granted to employees.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
160
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(r) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which
it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions
with any of the Group’s other components. Operating segment results are reviewed regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Managing Director of the Group, to make
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for
which discrete financial information is available.
(s) Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot
be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is
disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of
one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow
of economic benefits is remote.
(t) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence
of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as
far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group
can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset
or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
161
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Land
and
buildings
RM
Farm barn,
building
and
electrical
installation
RM
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM
Office and
shop
equipment
and design
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Agro
-tourism
farm
RM
Construction
-in
-progress
RM
Total
RM
At cost
At 1 April 2020 34,947,569 57,078,024 108,066,980 4,137,926 5,849,222 – 19,896,431 229,976,152
Additions 6,997,485 12,630,323 82,213,410 1,288,006 2,920,722 – 12,834,796 118,884,742
Disposals/Written off (4,960) – (243,223) – (840,808) – – (1,088,991)
Transfer/Reclassification (1,013,275) 9,453,813 8,707,939 (693,932) 1,481,314 – (17,935,859) –
Exchange difference 6,454,622 298,805 5,992,716 33,791 133,472 – 1,795,313 14,708,719
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 47,381,441 79,460,965 204,737,822 4,765,791 9,543,922 – 16,590,681 362,480,622
Additions – 18,735,055 19,186,640 763,329 1,783,284 275,446 20,071,531 60,815,285
Disposals/Written off – (41,640) (820,504) (26,296) (367,440) – (321,433) (1,577,313)
Transfer – 2,353,422 1,712,685 – 69,600 117,310 (4,253,017) –
Exchange difference (215,864) (13,006) (313,673) 366 (2,403) – 100,339 (444,241)
At 31 March 2022 47,165,577 100,494,796 224,502,970 5,503,190 11,026,963 392,756 32,188,101 421,274,353
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2020 535,439 7,847,736 19,284,467 1,674,228 1,733,371 – – 31,075,241
Depreciation charge 169,821 3,772,803 13,934,880 548,532 1,547,630 – – 19,973,666
Disposals/Written off – – (107,676) – (371,032) – – (478,708)
Transfer/Reclassification – (157,594) (104,429) (35,477) 297,500 – – –
Exchange difference – 11,430 301,988 5,074 42,617 – – 361,109
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 705,260 11,474,375 33,309,230 2,192,357 3,250,086 – – 50,931,308
Depreciation charge 169,820 4,882,847 19,206,500 736,156 1,733,357 9,664 – 26,738,344
Disposals/Written off – (957) (266,914) (17,362) (330,624) – – (615,857)
Exchange difference – 1,954 103,018 1,405 5,265 – – 111,642
At 31 March 2022 875,080 16,358,219 52,351,834 2,912,556 4,658,084 9,664 – 77,165,437
Accumulated impairment loss
At 1 April 2020 – – – – – – – –
Impairment loss – – 4,212,235 – – – – 4,212,235
Exchange difference – – 268,182 – – – – 268,182
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 – – 4,480,417 – – – – 4,480,417
Impairment loss – – 78,635 – – – – 78,635
Exchange difference – – (20,164) – – – – (20,164)
At 31 March 2022 – – 4,538,888 – – – – 4,538,888
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2020 34,412,130 49,230,288 88,782,513 2,463,698 4,115,851 – 19,896,431 198,900,911
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 46,676,181 67,986,590 166,948,175 2,573,434 6,293,836 – 16,590,681 307,068,897
At 31 March 2022 46,290,497 84,136,577 167,612,248 2,590,634 6,368,879 383,092 32,188,101 339,570,028
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
162
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Company
Farm barn,
building
and
electrical
installation
RM
Milk plant,
machinery,
tools and
equipment
RM
Office
and shop
equipment
and
design
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Construction
-in
-progress
RM
Total
RM
At cost
At 1 April 2020 24,222,904 54,754,553 1,240,201 673,583 1,232,695 82,123,936
Additions 8,194,879 20,161,903 408,908 152,811 2,402,048 31,320,549
Disposals/Written off – 1,232,694 – – (1,232,694) –
Transfer/Reclassification 7,364,967 (6,620,178) (744,789) – – –
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 39,782,750 69,528,972 904,320 826,394 2,402,049 113,444,485
Additions 4,352,354 11,423,458 304,151 391,100 3,604,248 20,075,311
Disposals/Written off (123) (48,332) – – – (48,455)
Transfer 1,194,920 1,467,667 – – (2,662,587) –
At 31 March 2022 45,329,901 82,371,765 1,208,471 1,217,494 3,343,710 133,471,341
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2020 3,322,166 5,913,183 222,153 213,417 – 9,670,919
Depreciation charge 1,417,078 5,993,514 117,062 125,575 – 7,653,229
Disposals/Written off (626,346) 677,670 (51,324) – – –
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 4,112,898 12,584,367 287,891 338,992 – 17,324,148
Depreciation charge 1,857,403 7,626,788 197,330 183,053 – 9,864,574
At 31 March 2022 5,970,301 20,211,155 485,221 522,045 – 27,188,722
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2020 20,900,738 48,841,370 1,018,048 460,166 1,232,695 72,453,017
At 31 March 2021/
1 April 2021 35,669,852 56,944,605 616,429 487,402 2,402,049 96,120,337
At 31 March 2022 39,359,600 62,160,610 723,250 695,449 3,343,710 106,282,619
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Carrying amounts of land and buildings
Land 37,528,539 37,712,170
Buildings 8,761,958 8,964,011
46,290,497 46,676,181
163
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Impairment loss – Australia’s operation
The Group has assessed the recoverable amount of plant and machineries under the fruit jam and sauces
divisions and recognised a full impairment loss of RM4,212,235 and RM78,635 in financial year ended
31 March 2021 and 31 March 2022 respectively on certain plant and machineries due to loss incurred
in fruit jam and sauces divisions.
The recoverable amount of plant and machineries is determined based on value in use calculations. See
Note 6 for the significant assumptions used in value in use calculations.
The impairment loss is recognised as other expenses in the statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income.
Assets under hire purchase
Included in property, plant and equipment of the Group and of the Company are motor vehicles and plant
machineries acquired under hire purchase with carrying amount of RM40,347,801 (2021: RM65,317,240)
and NIL (2021: RM13,413,752) respectively.
Security
Certain land and buildings of the Group with carrying amount of RM38,091,344 (2021: RM39,233,183)
are charged to banks as security for banking facilities granted to its subsidiary (see Note 17).
Properties subject to operating lease
The Group leases one of its warehouses to a third party under a short-term lease arrangement.
The Group generally does not require a financial guarantee on the lease arrangement. The rental income
is recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as
disclose in Note 23.
Others
Included in farm barn, building and electrical installation and construction-in-progress are the following
expenses capitalised:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Staff costs 3,174,947 1,419,104 590,185 521,407
Motor vehicles of the Group with carrying amount of NIL (2021: RM66,667) are registered in the names
of the person connected to the Directors held in trust for the Group.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
164
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Land
RM
Buildings
RM
Total
RM
Group
At cost
At 1 April 2020 14,427,273 276,813 14,704,086
Addition 2,059,416 810,052 2,869,468
Depreciation (1,069,659) (167,267) (1,236,926)
Derecognition (533,956) (15,019) (548,975)
Exchange difference – 32,116 32,116
At 31 March 2021/1 April 2021 14,883,074 936,695 15,819,769
Addition 110,164 500,485 610,649
Depreciation (1,104,697) (496,300) (1,600,997)
Exchange difference – (8,896) (8,896)
At 31 March 2022 13,888,541 931,984 14,820,525
Company
At cost
At 1 April 2020 2,325,726 232,198 2,557,924
Addition 1,552,341 – 1,552,341
Depreciation (181,435) (8,403) (189,838)
Derecognition (546,183) (5,306) (551,489)
At 31 March 2021/1 April 2021 3,150,449 218,489 3,368,938
Addition – 500,485 500,485
Depreciation (113,708) (119,622) (233,330)
At 31 March 2022 3,036,741 599,352 3,636,093
The Group and the Company lease a number of land and buildings that run between one year and thirty-
three years.
4.1 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to leases
The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it is reasonably
certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and circumstances including
their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset if an option to extend is
not taken, to help them determine the lease term.
The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing rate
of the respective lease. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates before
using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term, security, value
or economic environment of the respective leases.
4.2 Security
Included in right-of-use assets of the Group with carrying amount of RM1,126,339 (2021: RM1,907,394)
charged to banks as security for banking facilities granted to the subsidiary (see Note 17).
165
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Dairy cows and goats
At fair value
At 1 April 65,708,379 51,754,400 27,134,170 22,472,400
Additions 25,078,330 14,966,322 21,490,000 11,880,919
Disposals (8,025,796) (6,797,196) (16,883,625) (8,525,370)
Net gain arising from changes in
fair value of dairy cows and goats 9,949,771 4,321,205 3,187,395 2,274,532
Transfer to inventories (723,170) (968,311) (723,170) (968,311)
Transfer from semen and embryos 112,806 207,437 – –
Exchange difference (105,521) 2,224,522 – –
At 31 March 91,994,799 65,708,379 34,204,770 27,134,170
Semen and embryos
At cost
At 1 April 3,750,720 3,897,514 – –
Addition 70,164 – – –
Transfer to dairy cows and goats (112,806) (207,437) – –
Exchange difference 6,797 60,643 – –
At 31 March 3,714,875 3,750,720 – –
95,709,674 69,459,099 34,204,770 27,134,170
The quantity of dairy cows and dairy goats owned by the Group and the Company at the end of the
reporting period is shown below.
Group Company
2022
Heads
2021
Heads
2022
Heads
2021
Heads
Goat herds 294 357 – –
Dairy herds 8,938 7,922 2,960 2,844
Bulls 1,371 1,144 650 757
10,603 9,423 3,610 3,601
The raw milk quantity produced from goat herds and dairy herds owned by the Group and the Company
during the financial year is shown below.
Group Company
2022
Litres
2021
Litres
2022
Litres
2021
Litres
Goat herds 32,284 35,246 – –
Dairy herds 25,330,200 22,711,153 7,233,763 5,118,532
25,362,484 22,746,399 7,233,763 5,118,532
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
166
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level
3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Description of valuation technique and inputs used
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship
between significant
unobservable inputs
and fair value
measurement
Malaysian Farm
(a) Replacement cost approach
Reference to expected cost of purchase of cows by other
farms in Malaysia and overseas, adjusted for differences
in breed, weight and age group.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Cows
Calves and heifers: RM5,290 to RM7,990
(2021: RM4,300 to RM6,400)
Milkable cows: RM10,620 to RM12,240
(2021: RM8,490 to RM9,750)
Price per head of
comparable breed
and age group.
The estimated fair
value would increase/
(decrease) if the price
per head is higher/
(lower).
(b) Comparison approach
Reference to sale price of comparable goat herds and
bulls and adjusted for differences in key attributes such
as breed and age.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Goat herds
RM500 to RM3,800 (2021: RM500 to RM3,800)
Bulls
RM2,000 to RM5,000 (2021: RM2,000 to RM5,000)
Australian Farm
Comparison approach: Reference to sale price of comparable
dairy herds and bulls and adjusted for differences in key
attributes such as breed and age.
The table below summarises the price range per head:
Cows
Calves and heifers: RM3,147 to RM5,193
(2021: RM3,163 to RM4,428)
Milkable cows: RM7,868
(2021: RM6,325)
Price per head of
comparable breed
and age group.
The estimated fair
value would increase/
(decrease) if the price
per head is higher/
(lower).
167
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Level 3 fair value (continued)
The fair value of semen and embryos cannot be measured reliably as there is no active market and
transaction data available. The semen and embryos were bought for own use to improve the genetic
quality of the dairy cows and transferred to dairy cows based on the consumption.
No amortisation is recognised for the semen and embryos due to the fact that there is no expiration date
on frozen semen and embryos as these are properly stored.
The Directors monitor on the key factors in determining the fair value such as comparable sales price and
foreign exchange rate affecting import price as part of their financial risk management on biological assets.
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Water-use
license
RM
Goodwill
RM
Software
RM
Trademark
RM
Total
RM
Group
At cost
At 1 April 2020 9,754,553 4,166,848 – – 13,921,401
Addition – – 3,364,691 106,270 3,470,961
Amortisation – – (196,366) (6,943) (203,309)
Transfer (11,733) 11,733 – – –
Exchange difference 1,856,686 794,186 54,994 – 2,705,866
At 31 March 2021/1 April 2021 11,599,506 4,972,767 3,223,319 99,327 19,894,919
Addition – – 409,756 19,398 429,154
Amortisation – – (222,123) (11,178) (233,301)
Exchange difference (56,481) (24,217) (8,850) – (89,548)
At 31 March 2022 11,543,025 4,948,550 3,402,102 107,547 20,001,224
Company
At cost
At 1 April 2020 – – – – –
Addition – – 2,304,562 106,270 2,410,832
Amortisation – – – (6,944) (6,944)
At 31 March 2021/1 April 2021 – – 2,304,562 99,326 2,403,888
Addition – – 396,007 19,399 415,406
Amortisation – – – (11,178) (11,178)
At 31 March 2022 – – 2,700,569 107,547 2,808,116
The amortisation is recognised as administrative expenses in the statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income.
Water-use license
Water-use license is an entitlement to irrigate a specific parcel or parcels of land. The useful lives of the
water-use license are estimated to be indefinite as the water-use license is always attached to the owner
of the land.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
168
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Water-use license (continued)
The recoverable amount of water-use license was determined based on the fair value less to costs of
disposal. The fair value of water-use license is based on market comparison technique within Level 2. The
valuation model is based on market transaction prices published on the relevant authority website. For
the purpose of impairment testing, the management has compared the carrying amount against the
transaction price published on the relevant authority website as at the financial year end.
Based on the management assessment, no impairment is required as the recoverable amount was higher
than carrying amount.
Goodwill
Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating companies which
represent the lowest level within the Group at which the intangible assets is monitored for internal
management purpose.
The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit is as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Australia’s Kyabram facilities and fruit jam and sauces divisions 4,948,550 4,972,767
(a) The recoverable amount of a Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) is determined based on value in use
calculations. These calculations used cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by
Directors for periods covering a five-year period. The management has considered and determined
the factors applied in the financial budgets which include budgeted gross margins, pre-tax discount
rates and estimated growth rates. The budgeted gross margins are based on past performance and
the average growth rates and discount rates used are based on management’s best estimate.
(b) The key assumptions used in the value is use calculations are as follows:
(i) Cash flows were projected based on a 5-year business plan.
(ii) Gross margins are projected based on the historical profit margin achieved or predetermined
profit margin for the products.
(iii) A pre-tax discount rate of 8% has been applied in determining the recoverable amount of the
CGUs. The discount rate was estimated based on weighted average cost of capital of Australian
food and beverage industry.
(iv) The subsidiary will continue its operation indefinitely.
Based on the management assessment, no impairment is required as the recoverable amount was higher
than carrying amount.
169
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cost of investment 60,513,027 60,513,024
Loans to a subsidiary 60,857,834 35,898,167
121,370,861 96,411,191
The loans to a subsidiary are interest-free and unsecured. The settlement of the loans is neither planned
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future. As these loans, in substance, form part of the Company’s net
investment in the subsidiary, they are stated at cost.
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Principal place
of business/
Country of
incorporation
Effective ownership interest
and voting interest
Name of entity Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Farm Fresh Milk
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and goats
and the production, marketing
and sale of cow’s and goat’s milk
and plant-based related products
100 100
GEM Organics (M)
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Property holding 100 100
AFS Dairy Company
Australia Pty Ltd
Australia Holding of the semen and embryos
of Australian Fresian Sahiwal
dairy cattle
100 100
Holstein Dairy (Desaru)
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and sale of
cow’s milk
100 100
Holstein Selama Dairy
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and sale of
cow’s milk
100 100
Serdang Dairy Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Rearing of dairy cows and sale of
cow’s milk
100 100
The Holstein Milk
Company (M) Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 100 –
The Holstein Milk
Company (Australia)
Pty Ltd#
Australia Investment holding 80 80
Farm Fresh Milk (HK)
Limited#
Hong Kong Dormant 100 –
Subsidiaries of Farm Fresh (Australia) Pty Ltd
Goulburn Valley
Creamery Pty Ltd#
Australia Rearing of dairy cows and the
production, marketing and sale
of cow’s milk
80 80
Henry Jones Foods Pty
Ltd#
Australia Manufacturing of jam and sauces 80 80
# Not audited by KPMG PLT.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
170
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
7.1 Non-controlling interests
The Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
2022
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
Other
individually
immaterial
subsidiaries Total
NCI percentage of ownership interest and
voting interest 20%
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Carrying amount of NCI 4,996 23 5,019
Loss allocated to NCI (816) (506) (1,322)
2021
The Holstein
Milk Company
(Australia)
Pty Ltd and
its subsidiaries
Other
individually
immaterial
subsidiaries Total
NCI percentage of ownership interest and
voting interest 20%
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Carrying amount of NCI 5,858 529 6,387
(Loss)/Profit allocated to NCI (3,514) 114 (3,400)
171
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
7.1 Non-controlling interests (continued)
The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination
As at 31 March
Non-current assets 167,965 158,335
Current assets 189,259 142,578
Non-current liabilities (95,202) (55,787)
Current liabilities (237,039) (215,836)
Net assets 24,983 29,290
Year ended 31 March
Revenue 191,509 84,515
Loss for the year (4,079) (17,570)
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 15,015 (31,402)
Cash flows used in investing activities (9,218) (76,437)
Cash flows from financing activities 11,220 97,075
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 17,017 (10,764)
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-current
Net investment in lease 8.1 740,429 1,077,338 – –
Current
Trade receivables 8.2 85,570,786 77,243,695 24,846,729 18,111,630
Other receivables, deposits and
prepayments 8.2 11,000,933 7,989,608 6,236,541 2,916,577
Advance payments 8.3 3,328,554 3,203,155 1,447,832 444,094
Net investment in lease 8.1 347,897 359,714 – –
100,248,170 88,796,172 32,531,102 21,472,301
100,988,599 89,873,510 32,531,102 21,472,301
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
172
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
8.1 Net investment in lease
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At 1 April 1,437,052 1,063,160
Addition – 669,867
Interest income 61,952 51,049
Lease payments received (410,678) (288,576)
Derecognition – (58,448)
At 31 March 1,088,326 1,437,052
The Group leases several motor vehicles to third parties. Each of the leases contains an initial non-
cancellable period of three to five years, with a fixed rent.
These leases transfer substantially all the risk and rewards incidental to ownership of the motor
vehicles. The Group expects the residual value of the motor vehicles at the end of the lease term to
be minimal. These leases do not include buy-back agreements or residual value guarantees.
The lease payments to be received are as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Less than one year 392,528 417,828
One to two years 373,880 392,528
Two to three years 282,325 374,387
Three to four years 126,950 281,950
Four to five years – 120,975
Total undiscounted lease payments 1,175,683 1,587,668
Unearned interest income (87,357) (150,616)
Net investment in lease 1,088,326 1,437,052
173
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
8.1 Net investment in lease (continued)
The following are recognised in profit or loss:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Gain for new finance lease entered into – 212,591
8.2 Included in trade and other receivables are amounts due from companies in which certain Directors
of the Group have substantial financial interests:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade receivables 11,677 8,570
Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 88,973 5,305
100,650 13,875
The Group has collected the non-trade portion of amounts due from companies in which certain
Directors of the Group have substantial financial interests subsequent to the financial year ended 31
March 2022.
8.3 In respect of advance payments paid to suppliers for raw materials and services to be performed.
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Property, plant and equipment – – (11,635,348) (12,071,797) (11,635,348) (12,071,797)
Change in fair value of
biological assets – – (6,635,870) (2,915,621) (6,635,870) (2,915,621)
Derivative assets – – (408,815) – (408,815) –
Trade receivables 43,250 316,747 – – 43,250 316,747
Inventories 363,690 166,278 – – 363,690 166,278
Unabsorbed capital allowances 3,632,000 2,379,794 – – 3,632,000 2,379,794
Unutilised tax losses 15,242,799 8,831,770 – – 15,242,799 8,831,770
Other investments 9,000 – – – 9,000 –
Others 1,146,967 843,982 – – 1,146,967 843,982
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 20,437,706 12,538,571 (18,680,033) (14,987,418) 1,757,673 (2,448,847)
Set off of tax (10,968,550) (9,185,821) 10,968,550 9,185,821 – –
Net deferred tax assets/
(liabilities) 9,469,156 3,352,750 (7,711,483) (5,801,597) 1,757,673 (2,448,847)
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
174
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (continued)
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Property, plant and equipment (5,964,000) (4,864,000)
Derivative asset (1,000) –
Unabsorbed capital allowances 6,000 –
Unutilised tax losses – 164,000
Other investments 49,000 –
Others 212,000 162,000
(5,698,000) (4,538,000)
The Company has been granted approval of East Coast Economic Region Incentive (“ECER incentive”)
under Income Tax Act, 1967 for milk and cheese processing projects. Under the incentives, the Company
is allowed to claim income tax exemption on its statutory income arising from qualifying projects for 10
(5+5) years commencing from the first year the Company derives statutory income, i.e. from YA2014. The
ECER incentive is subject to and upon fulfilment of the necessary conditions and requirements as specified
in the approval letter. Losses incurred before the exemption period and during the exemption period are
allowed to be carried forward for utilisation during the post exemption period.
A subsidiary has been granted Agricultural Tax Incentive under Section 127 of Income Tax Act, 1967 for
rearing of cows/goats and cows/goats milk processing projects. Under the incentives, the subsidiary is
allowed to claim income tax exemption on its statutory income arising from qualifying projects for 10
years commencing from the first year the subsidiary derives statutory income, i.e. from YA2014. Losses
incurred before the exemption period and during the exemption period are allowed to be carried forward
for utilisation during the post exemption period.
Accordingly, the deferred tax liabilities of the Company and the subsidiary are recognised in the financial
statements to the extent that they are expected to be reversed/utilised after the 10 years exemption period.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items in certain subsidiaries
(stated at gross):
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Property, plant and equipment (7,381,000) (7,209,000)
Unabsorbed capital allowances 7,356,000 6,447,000
Unutilised tax losses 11,654,000 14,330,000
Change in fair value of biological assets (3,278,000) (2,205,000)
Others 587,000 489,000
8,938,000 11,852,000
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that
future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom.
The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the revised deductible temporary differences,
unabsorbed capital allowances and unutilised tax losses available to the Group.
175
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets (continued)
Pursuant to the Finance Act 2021, unutilised tax losses for the year of assessment 2018 can be carried
forward until year of assessment 2028 and unutilised tax losses for the year of assessment 2019 onwards
can be carried forward up to 10 consecutive years of assessment immediately following that year of
assessment.
In prior year, unutilised tax losses can only be carried forward up to 7 consecutive years of assessment.
The unrecognised unutilised tax losses will expire in the following years of assessment:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
2025 – 589,000
2026 – 14,000
2027 – 1,038,000
2028 6,097,000 1,525,000
2029 788,000 –
2030 1,750,000 –
2031 1,353,000 –
2032 1,666,000 –
No expiry period (see Note (a) below) – 11,164,000
11,654,000 14,330,000
(a) Unutilised tax losses do not expire under the Australia’s tax legislation.
The unabsorbed capital allowances do not expire under the current tax legislation.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
176
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Group
At
1 April
2020
RM
Recognised
in profit or
loss
(Note 22)
RM
Exchange
differences
RM
At
31 March
2021/
1 April
2021
RM
Recognised
in profit or
loss
(Note 22)
RM
Exchange
differences
RM
At
31 March
2022
RM
Property, plant and equipment (5,772,000) (6,133,288) (166,509) (12,071,797) 493,782 (57,333) (11,635,348)
Trade receivables 43,000 257,601 16,146 316,747 (273,502) 5 43,250
Inventories 72,000 89,413 4,865 166,278 192,766 4,646 363,690
Unabsorbed capital allowances 258,000 2,121,794 – 2,379,794 1,252,206 – 3,632,000
Unutilised tax losses 574,000 7,847,384 410,386 8,831,770 6,118,435 292,594 15,242,799
Change in fair value of
biological assets – (2,810,895) (104,726) (2,915,621) (3,660,682) (59,567) (6,635,870)
Derivative assets – – – – (404,270) (4,545) (408,815)
Other investments – – – – 9,000 – 9,000
Others 514,350 246,767 82,865 843,982 368,875 (65,890) 1,146,967
(4,310,650) 1,618,776 243,027 (2,448,847) 4,096,610 109,910 1,757,673
Company
At
1 April
2020
RM
Recognised
in profit or
loss
(Note 22)
RM
At
31 March
2021/
1 April
2021
RM
Recognised
in profit or
loss
(Note 22)
RM
At
31 March
2022
RM
Property, plant and equipment (2,530,000) (2,334,000) (4,864,000) (1,100,000) (5,964,000)
Unabsorbed capital allowances – – – 6,000 6,000
Unutilised tax losses – 164,000 164,000 (164,000) –
Derivative asset – – – (1,000) (1,000)
Other investments – – – 49,000 49,000
Others 154,000 8,000 162,000 50,000 212,000
(2,376,000) (2,162,000) (4,538,000) (1,160,000) (5,698,000)
177
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-current
Due from subsidiaries
– non-trade 67,200,000 18,478,972
Current
Due from subsidiaries
– trade 2,527,657 970,415
– non-trade 48,070,355 21,092,863
50,598,012 22,063,278
Due to subsidiaries
– trade (3,392,734) (70,930,753)
Included in the current and non-current amounts due from subsidiaries are advances of RM67,200,000
(2021: RM21,000,000) subject to an interest of 4.13% (2021: 5.6%) per annum on the monthly outstanding
balances.
The remaining non-trade portion of amounts due from/(to) subsidiaries are unsecured, interest free and
have no fixed terms of repayment while the trade portion is subject to normal trade term.
11. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Raw material 55,444,735 59,338,470 18,775,127 17,964,921
Raw milk 24,846,626 16,757,036 11,544,123 12,698,159
Consumables 10,931,947 9,782,715 1,312,232 1,188,418
Goods-in-transit 20,580,691 9,186,008 1,182,771 –
Finished goods 6,078,116 9,359,275 3,599,336 3,612,686
Work-in-progress 962,704 611,135 60,162 489,425
118,844,819 105,034,639 36,473,751 35,953,609
Recognised in profit or loss:
– Inventories recognised as cost of sales 364,736,698 348,998,100 162,934,703 147,727,443
– Write down of obsolete and slow-moving
inventories 840,027 614,402 258,907 245,522
365,576,725 349,612,502 163,193,610 147,972,965
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
178
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS
Group
2022
Company
2022
Nominal
value
RM
Asset
RM
Nominal
value
RM
Asset
RM
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss
Forward exchange contracts 19,322,070 782,822 64,611 2,668
Interest rate swap 15,736,500 736,053 – –
35,058,570 1,518,875 64,611 2,668
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the foreign currency exposures arising from the Group’s
payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of Group entities. Most of the
forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the year end of the reporting
period. Where necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
Interest rate swap is used to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating interest rate exposure. In
the current financial year, the Group entered into an interest rate swap with nominal value of RM15,736,500
to hedge the cash flow risk in relation to the floating interest rate of a bank loan.
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Group Company
2022
RM
2022
RM
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Money market fund 280,594,613 260,108,202
14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cash and bank balances 28,052,940 11,673,637 9,565,273 6,632,114
Deposits placed with licensed banks 50,126 50,000 – –
Cash and cash equivalents in the
statements of financial position 28,103,066 11,723,637 9,565,273 6,632,114
Less: Bank overdraft – (14,272,336) – –
Cash and cash equivalents in the
statements of cash flows 28,103,066 (2,548,699) 9,565,273 6,632,114
179
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital
Group/Company
Group/Company
Number of ordinary shares
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022 2021
Issued and fully paid shares with no par
value classified as equity instruments:
Ordinary shares:
At 1 April 87,779,796 87,779,796 84,999,999 84,999,999
Bonus Issue – – 1,550,000,138 –
Issued for Initial Public Offering 300,988,845 – 222,954,700 –
Share issuance expenses for the Public
Issue (8,161,198) – – –
At 31 March 380,607,443 87,779,796 1,857,954,837 84,999,999
Reserves
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-distributable
Translation reserve 2,609,727 4,024,142 – –
Distributable
Retained earnings 222,726,267 142,839,375 89,872,359 60,423,450
225,335,994 146,863,517 89,872,359 60,423,450
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than RM.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
180
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. DEFERRED INCOME
Group/Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Government grant received
At 1 April 8,010,455 7,558,774
Additions – 451,681
At 31 March 8,010,455 8,010,455
Less: Amortisation
At 1 April (972,331) (705,855)
Charge for the year (270,697) (266,476)
At 31 March (1,243,028) (972,331)
6,767,427 7,038,124
Carrying amounts of government grant
Non-current 6,496,730 6,768,263
Current 270,697 269,861
6,767,427 7,038,124
The balances consist of government grants as follow:
– For the project of rehabilitation and replanting of pasture and fodder at the farm in Muadzam Shah.
The grant is being amortised over useful life of the paddock;
– For the construction of the building and related infrastructure for milk processing plant at the plant
in Muadzam Shah. The grant is being amortised over useful life of the milk processing plant; and
– For the implementation of Napier production projects as a sub-project to national dairy industry
development project at Muadzam Shah. The grant is being amortised over useful life of the milk plant.
181
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-current
Unsecured
Sukuk 200,000,000 – 200,000,000 –
Secured
Hire purchase liabilities 15,261,056 41,409,818 – 6,238,959
Term loans 17,055,872 59,604,938 1,319,373 18,478,972
232,316,928 101,014,756 201,319,373 24,717,931
Current
Unsecured
Loan from a shareholder – 34,012,603 – 34,012,603
Sukuk 2,486,795 – 2,486,795 –
Secured
Hire purchase liabilities 5,284,323 16,240,753 – 3,849,268
Short-term financing 970,791 1,085,755 – –
Term loans 1,670,403 9,062,916 1,670,403 2,521,028
Bankers’ acceptances 41,888,529 62,179,558 – 6,423,757
Bank overdraft – 14,272,336 – –
Revolving credits – 4,074,000 – 4,074,000
52,300,841 140,927,921 4,157,198 50,880,656
284,617,769 241,942,677 205,476,571 75,598,587
Security
During the current financial year, all the term loans and bankers’ acceptances of subsidiaries are secured
by:
i) Group’s land and buildings and right-of-use assets as disclosed in Notes 3 and 4 respectively; and
ii) Corporate guarantee by the Company and a subsidiary.
In the previous financial year, all the term loans, bankers’ acceptances, revolving credits and bank overdraft
of subsidiaries were secured by:
i) Group’s land and buildings and right-of-use assets as disclosed in Notes 3 and 4 respectively;
ii) Joint and several guarantee by the Directors; and
iii) Corporate guarantee by the Company and a subsidiary.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
182
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. LOANS AND BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
Significant covenants
Certain borrowings are subject to the following covenants:
i) Debt-to-equity ratio of the Group shall not exceed 1.0 times.
ii) External total borrowed funds against EBITDA of the Group shall not exceed 3.50 times.
iii) Debt-to-capitalisation ratio of the Australian’s subsidiaries shall not exceed 0.50 times.
iv) EBITDA interest cover ratio of the Australian’s subsidiaries shall not less than 2.50 times.
v) Debt-to-equity ratio of a subsidiary shall not exceed 1.25 times.
Sukuk
The Group and the Company have established a Sukuk Wakalah Programme (“Sukuk”) of RM1.0 billion
in nominal value on 18 May 2021, pursuant to which it has issued on 28 May 2021, a RM200 million
Sukuk with a maturity date of 28 May 2026, at a profit rate of 3.72% per annum and payable semi-
annually.
Loan from a shareholder
Pursuant to the loan agreement dated 5 December 2019, there is a conversion right attached to the loan
that allows the shareholder to convert the loan into ordinary shares. The conversion ratio is fixed with a
variable element determined based on growth rate of the Group as indicated in the audited profit after
tax for the financial year ended 31 March 2020 and the financial year ended 31 March 2021. The loan
has been fully settled during the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
Hire purchase liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities are payable as follows:
Future
minimum
lease
payments
RM
Interest
RM
Present value
of minimum
lease
payments
RM
Group
2022
Less than one year 5,671,809 387,486 5,284,323
Between one and five years 15,734,190 473,134 15,261,056
21,405,999 860,620 20,545,379
2021
Less than one year 18,197,980 1,957,227 16,240,753
Between one and five years 43,991,509 2,581,691 41,409,818
62,189,489 4,538,918 57,650,571
Company
2021
Less than one year 4,333,030 483,759 3,849,271
Between one and five years 6,678,245 439,286 6,238,959
11,011,275 923,045 10,088,230
The hire purchase liabilities of the Company have been fully settled during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
183
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade payables 32,083,729 38,234,241 6,072,696 5,653,505
Other payables 22,911,024 24,850,222 7,218,081 7,059,095
Accrued expenses 28,041,453 10,985,196 13,696,968 5,704,739
Accrued advertising and promotional
expenses 9,144,546 7,830,837 1,482,837 1,112,691
Due to Directors 894,796 897,881 – –
Derivative financial liabilities – 280,158 – –
93,075,548 83,078,535 28,470,582 19,530,030
Included in trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are amounts of RM1,359,495
(2021: RM1,109,969) and RM1,308,647 (2021: RM1,058,872) respectively due to a company in which a
director cum minority shareholder in a subsidiary has substantial financial interests.
The amounts due to Directors are non-trade in nature, interest free, unsecured and have no fixed terms
of repayment.
19. REVENUE
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Revenue from contracts with customers
– At a point in time 501,921,211 490,498,015 216,066,203 211,810,803
19.1 Nature of goods and services
The following information reflects the typical transactions of the Group:
Nature of goods
or services
Timing of recognition
or method used to
recognise revenue
Significant
payment terms
Variable elements in
consideration
Manufacturing and
distribution of plant
based, cow’s and
goat’s milk related
products
Revenue is recognised
when the goods are
delivered and accepted
by the customers
Credit period ranging
from 7 to 75 days
from invoice date or
month-end date
Sales incentives and other
sales related expenses are
given to customers where
the customers meet sales
target or based on the
agreed advertising and
promotional activities
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
184
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Interest income on net investment in lease 61,952 51,049 – –
Other finance income 1,204,963 176,984 2,502,736 52,663
1,266,915 228,033 2,502,736 52,663
21. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Interest expense on lease liabilities 329,686 249,129 215,722 140,993
Other finance costs 10,761,907 9,735,212 7,908,876 4,273,966
11,091,593 9,984,341 8,124,598 4,414,959
Less: Accrual of profit/finance cost (2,816,481) (3,152,084) (2,702,517) (3,153,596)
8,275,112 6,832,257 5,422,081 1,261,363
22. TAX (CREDIT)/EXPENSE
Recognised in profit or loss
Major components of income tax expense include:
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Current tax expense
– Current year 1,004,000 10,671,033 507,000 181,000
– Prior years 701,656 – 204,310 –
1,705,656 10,671,033 711,310 181,000
Deferred tax (income)/expense
– Origination and reversal of
temporary differences (4,396,610) (1,130,065) 742,000 2,130,000
– Under/(Over) provision in prior
years 300,000 (488,711) 418,000 32,000
(4,096,610) (1,618,776) 1,160,000 2,162,000
Additional tax for prior years 22.1 – 25,708,582 – –
Reversal of tax 22.1 (10,490,033) – – –
(12,880,987) 34,760,839 1,871,310 2,343,000
185
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. TAX (CREDIT)/EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Reconciliation of tax (credit)/expense
Profit before tax 65,684 67,589 31,320 43,122
Income tax calculated using
Malaysian tax rate of 24% 15,764 16,222 7,517 10,349
Non-deductible expenses 2,099 2,506 1,787 1,237
Non-taxable income (150) – (75) –
Tax incentive (19,760) (11,255) (7,980) (9,275)
Effect of unrecognised deferred tax
assets (699) 3,292 – –
Effect of different tax rate in foreign
jurisdictions (647) (1,223) – –
(3,393) 9,542 1,249 2,311
(Over)/Under provision in prior years
– Current tax and deferred tax 1,002 (489) 622 32
– Additional tax for prior years 22.1 – 25,708 – –
– Reversal of tax 22.1 (10,490) – – –
(9,488) 25,219 622 32
Tax (credit)/expense (12,881) 34,761 1,871 2,343
22.1 As disclosed in Note 9, a subsidiary has been granted Agricultural Tax Incentive for the rearing of
cows/goats and milk processing projects. While the subsidiary filed its prior years taxes on the basis
that it enjoyed full tax incentive on its operation, certain milk processing plants of the subsidiary
had not been notified to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries Malaysia and consequently
not added as approved locations on a timely basis. In the preparation of the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 March 2021, based on the resolution with the Inland Revenue
Board (“IRB”), an additional tax payable and penalty (Additional Tax Amount) of RM25,708,582 has
been provided in respect of the non-approved locations for the relevant years of assessment (“YA”)
from 2014 to 2020 (RM5,870,334 relates to YA 2020, RM5,139,424 relates to YA 2019 and the
remaining amount of RM14,698,824 relates to YA 2014 to 2018).
Further, the Ministry of Finance (“MOF”) has approved the application for inclusion of the additional
locations as approved locations, starting from YA 2022 onwards. Hence, tax was also provided in
respect of these locations for YA2021 in the audited financial statements for the year ended 31
March 2021.
Upon a subsequent application to the MOF, the subsidiary has received approval that the additional
locations are approved for a new Tax Incentive under Section 127 (3A) of Income Tax Act, 1967.
Under the incentive, the subsidiary is allowed to claim income tax exemption on its statutory income
arising from qualifying projects conducted in the additional locations for 10 (5+5) years commencing
from YA 2021.
Accordingly, the tax payable amount of RM10,490,033 for YA 2021 previously recorded for in the
financial year ended 31 March 2021 is reversed in the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
186
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Group Company
Note
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit for the year is arrived at
after charging/(crediting)
Audit fees:
– KPMG PLT
– current year 270,000 244,000 110,000 50,000
– under provided in prior year 18,000 – 55,000 –
– Other auditor 231,189 153,130 – –
Non-audit fees:
– KPMG PLT 830,000 510,000 830,000 510,000
– Local affiliates of KPMG PLT
Malaysia 60,000 60,000 20,000 20,000
Depreciation and amortisation:
– property, plant and equipment 26,738,344 19,973,666 9,864,574 7,653,229
– right-of-use assets 1,600,997 1,236,926 233,330 189,838
– intangible assets 233,301 203,309 11,178 6,944
Expenses relating to short-term
leases a 4,745,774 2,781,426 – –
Expenses relating to leases of
low-value assets a 34,841 24,051 18,140 8,388
(Reversal of impairment loss)/
Impairment loss on:
– trade receivables (86,020) 609,145 – –
– property, plant and equipment 78,635 4,212,235 – –
Written off of:
– property, plant and equipment 145,844 – – –
– other receivables – 411,486 – –
– obsolete and slow-moving
inventories 840,027 614,402 258,907 245,522
Gain on disposal of property,
plant and equipment (120,672) (462,667) – –
Personnel expenses (including key
management personnel):
– contribution to state plans 3,982,363 3,186,432 764,053 592,658
– wages, salaries and others 46,919,104 38,041,353 10,148,778 8,117,880
Rental income from subleasing of
property (1,656,655) (1,012,969) – –
Rental concession income (157,091) (224,700) (60,791) –
Redundancy costs 4,850,849 3,099,374 – –
Government grant income b – (2,462,563) – –
Amortisation of deferred income (270,697) (266,476) (270,697) (266,476)
Net foreign exchange loss/(gain) 448,813 (14,055) 87,747 (84,460)
Fair value (gain)/loss of:
– derivatives financial instruments (1,518,875) – (2,668) –
– other investments 35,124 – 202,728 –
Dividend income from other
investment (629,737) – (310,930) –
Gain arising from changes in fair
value of dairy cows and goats:
– Malaysian Farm (6,881,746) (3,996,068) (3,187,395) (2,274,532)
– Australian Farm (3,068,025) (325,137) – –
187
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR (CONTINUED)
Note a
The Group and the Company lease office and office equipment with contract terms of 1 to 2 years. These leases are
short-term and/or leases of low-value items. The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use
assets and lease liabilities for these leases.
Note b
The government grant income was a non-recurring subsidy from Australian Government in respect of financial assistance
on the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.
24. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 March 2022 was based on the profit attributable
to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, calculated as
follows:
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit for the year attributable to owners 79,886,892 36,228,078
Weighted average number of ordinary shares are determined as follows:
2022
RM
2021
RM
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,641,108,485(i) 1,635,000,137(ii)
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 4.87 2.22
(i) Based on the weighted average number of issued share capital of 1,635,000,137 ordinary shares after the completion
of Bonus Issue but before the Public Issue and 1,857,954,837 ordinary shares after the completion of the Public
Issue.
(ii) Based on the issued share capital of 1,635,000,137 ordinary shares after the completion of Bonus Issue.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
There is no dilutive ordinary share outstanding.
25. DIVIDEND
After the end of the reporting period, the following dividend was proposed by the Directors. This dividend
will be recognised in subsequent financial period.
Sen per
share
RM
Total
amount
RM’000
Final 2022 1.07 19,972
The final dividend will be recognised in the subsequent financial period upon approval by the shareholders
of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
188
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has two reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units.
The strategic business units offer different products and services, and are managed separately because they
require different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Operating Decision
Maker (“CODM”) (i.e. the Group’s Managing Director) reviews internal management reports at least on a
quarterly basis. The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s reportable segments:
• Malaysia’s operation Includes rearing of dairy cows and production and marketing and sale of cow’s
and goat’s milk, yogurt, and plant-based soya, oat, almond and other related
products.
• Australia’s operation Includes rearing of dairy cows, production and marketing and sale of cow’s
milk, jam and sauces.
Performance is measured based on segment profit or loss before tax, finance income, finance costs, depreciation
and amortisation, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by CODM. Segment
profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant
in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Segment assets and liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor
provided regularly to the Group Managing Director. Hence, no disclosure is made on segment assets and
liabilities.
Malaysia’s
operation
RM’000
Australia’s
operation
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2022
Segment profit/(loss) 73,714 (8,030) 65,684
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 455,582 46,339 501,921
Depreciation and amortisation (21,541) (7,032) (28,573)
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment – (79) (79)
Redundancy costs – (4,851) (4,851)
Finance costs (9,357) (1,735) (11,092)
Finance income 273 994 1,267
Information provided to Group Managing Director
Additions to non-current assets other than financial
instruments and deferred tax assets 73,829 13,104 86,933
2021
Segment profit/(loss) 88,173 (20,584) 67,589
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 438,783 51,715 490,498
Depreciation and amortisation (17,740) (3,674) (21,414)
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment – (4,212) (4,212)
Redundancy costs – (3,099) (3,099)
Finance costs (7,023) (2,961) (9,984)
Finance income 228 – 228
Information provided to Group Managing Director
Additions to non-current assets other than financial
instruments and deferred tax assets 77,246 62,945 140,191
189
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical
location of customers.
Revenue
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Malaysia 435,310 420,072
Australia 46,339 51,715
Singapore 18,993 17,817
Brunei 1,279 894
Total 501,921 490,498
Major customers
The following is the major customer with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue:
Revenue
RM’000 Segment
2022
Customer A 67,021 Malaysia’s operation
2021
Customer A 60,249 Malaysia’s operation
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
27.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments of the Group and the Company
categorised as follows:
(a) Amortised cost (“AC”)
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
190
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2022
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 96,571 96,571 –
Cash and cash equivalents 28,103 28,103 –
Derivative assets 783 – 783
Other investments 280,595 – 280,595
406,052 124,674 281,378
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (284,618) (284,618) –
Trade and other payables (93,076) (93,076) –
(377,694) (377,694) –
2021
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 85,593 85,593 –
Cash and cash equivalents 11,724 11,724 –
97,317 97,317 –
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (241,943) (241,943) –
Trade and other payables (82,798) (82,798) –
Derivative liabilities (280) – (280)
(325,021) (324,741) (280)
191
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
AC
RM’000
Mandatorily
at FVTPL
RM’000
2022
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 31,083 31,083 –
Due from subsidiaries 117,798 117,798 –
Cash and cash equivalents 9,565 9,565 –
Derivative assets 3 – 3
Other investments 260,108 – 260,108
418,557 158,446 260,111
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (205,477) (205,477) –
Trade and other payables (28,471) (28,471) –
Due to subsidiaries (3,393) (3,393) –
(237,341) (237,341) –
2021
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 21,028 21,028 –
Due from subsidiaries 40,542 40,542 –
Cash and cash equivalents 6,632 6,632 –
68,202 68,202 –
Financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings (75,599) (75,599) –
Trade and other payables (19,530) (19,530) –
Due to subsidiaries (70,931) (70,931) –
(166,060) (166,060) –
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
192
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Net gains/(losses) on:
Financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9 2,371,389 – 110,870 –
Financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss
– Mandatorily required by MFRS 9 – (263,389) – –
Financial assets at amortised cost 282,518 (738,103) 2,502,736 52,663
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (11,196,199) (9,563,312) (8,008,862) (4,189,506)
(8,542,292) (10,564,804) (5,395,256) (4,136,843)
27.3 Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
27.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arises
principally from its receivables from customers. In addition, the Company has exposure to credit risk
arising from advances to subsidiaries and financial guarantees given to banks for credit facilities
granted to subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior period.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing
basis. Credit evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether any of the trade receivables
are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
full) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to prior period.
193
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no significant concentrations of credit risk and
maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables, amounts due from subsidiaries are
represented by the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group maintains separate ageing analysis in respect
of trade receivables from retailer and other than retailer.
For retailers, management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither
past due nor impaired are measured at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables
are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group and the Company. The Group and
the Company use ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the receivables. The Group and
the Company grant credit period ranging from 7 to 75 days from invoice date or month-end date.
Hence, any receivables having significant balances past due more than 90 days, shall be considered
as credit impaired and monitored individually.
The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure expected credit losses (“ECLs”)
of trade receivables other than retailers. Consistent with the debt recovery process, invoices which
are past due 90 days will be considered as credit impaired.
Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable progressing
through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.
Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and the
Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which
the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s and the Company’s
view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
194
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables as at the end of the reporting date which are grouped together as they are expected
to have similar risk nature.
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Loss
allowance
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
2022
Current (not past due) 55,983 – 55,983
1 – 30 days past due 27,200 – 27,200
31 – 60 days past due 1,582 – 1,582
61 – 90 days past due 141 – 141
84,906 – 84,906
Credit impaired
More than 90 days past due 846 181 665
Individually impaired 1 1 –
85,753 182 85,571
2021
Current (not past due) 59,010 – 59,010
1 – 30 days past due 16,856 – 16,856
31 – 60 days past due 717 – 717
61 – 90 days past due 233 – 233
76,816 – 76,816
Credit impaired
More than 90 days past due 608 180 428
Individually impaired 665 665 –
78,089 845 77,244
Gross carrying amount/
Net balance
Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Current (not past due) 17,124 13,680
1 – 30 days past due 6,926 4,319
31 – 60 days past due 585 95
61 – 90 days past due 31 1
24,666 18,095
Credit impaired
More than 90 days past due 181 17
24,847 18,112
195
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year are
shown below.
Credit impaired
Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
At 1 April 845 196
Net remeasurement of loss allowance (86) 609
Written off (615) –
Exchange differences 38 40
At 31 March 182 845
As at the end of the reporting, the Company does not recognise any allowance for impairment
losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the
reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in
the statement of financial position.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. In addition, some of the bank balances
are insured by government agencies. Consequently, the Group and the Company are of the view
that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
Other receivables
The Group and the Company monitor the exposure to credit risk on individual basis.
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. There is no history of default on other
receivables and there is no indicator these other receivables may default. The Group and the Company
also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historic
data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s and the Company’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and the
Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to banks in respect of banking facilities
granted to certain subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the
subsidiaries and repayments made by the subsidiaries.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
196
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Financial guarantees (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The maximum exposure to credit risk amounts to RM29,299,329 (2021: RM54,252,114) representing
the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that any subsidiary would default on
repayment.
The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was
not material.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when subsidiaries’ financial
position deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired
when:
• The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay their credit obligation to the bank in full; or
• The subsidiaries are continuously loss making and are having deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal
information available.
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company does not recognise any allowance as they are
categorised as low risk.
Inter-company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to subsidiaries. The advances are repayable on demand.
The Company monitors the results of the subsidiaries regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company considers amounts due from subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes
that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial position deteriorates
significantly. The Company considers amounts due from subsidiaries to be credit impaired when:
• The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its amount due to the Company in full; or
• The subsidiaries are continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
As at the end of the reporting, the Company does not recognise any loss allowance as they are
categorised under low risk.
197
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.4 Credit risk (continued)
Net investment in a lease
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group manages credit risk on net investment in a lease together with its leasing arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
There is no history of default on the investment in lease and there is no indicator this lease may
default. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic conditions during the period
over which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group is of the
view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
27.5 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its financial
obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally
from its various payables, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities
deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient
liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
198
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities
and lease liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Group
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate/coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2022
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Sukuk 202,487 3.72 233,450 7,420 7,440 218,590 –
Secured bankers’
acceptances 41,889 1.77 – 3.05 41,889 41,889 – – –
Secured hire purchase
liabilities 20,545 3.12 – 5.33 21,406 5,672 5,547 10,187 –
Secured term loans 18,726 1.97 – 5.60 19,018 1,782 1,499 15,737 –
Trade and other payables 93,076 – 93,076 93,076 – – –
Lease liabilities 6,879 4.21 – 5.00 10,758 1,261 704 1,561 7,232
Short-term financing 971 – 971 971 – – –
384,573 420,568 152,071 15,190 246,075 7,232
Derivative financial
liabilities
Forward exchange
contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow – – (19,322) (19,322) – – –
– Inflow 783 – 20,105 20,105 – – –
Interest rate swap 736 – 736 736 – – –
386,092 422,087 153,590 15,190 246,075 7,232
2021
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Loan from a shareholder 34,012 10.00 36,300 36,300 – – –
Secured bankers’
acceptances 62,180 3.12 – 3.28 62,180 62,180 – – –
Secured hire purchase
liabilities 57,651 2.46 – 6.09 62,189 18,197 15,509 28,483 –
Secured term loans 68,668 3.75 – 7.35 77,082 11,384 10,796 46,086 8,816
Bank overdraft 14,272 4.21 14,272 14,272 – – –
Trade and other payables 83,079 – 83,079 83,079 – – –
Revolving credits 4,074 5.60 4,074 4,074 – – –
Lease liabilities 7,014 4.21 – 5.00 11,184 1,170 958 1,515 7,541
Short-term financing 1,086 5.50 1,086 1,086 – – –
332,036 351,446 231,742 27,263 76,084 16,357
Derivative financial
liabilities
Forward exchange
contracts (gross settled):
– Outflow – – (423) (423) – – –
– Inflow 280 – 703 703 – – –
332,316 351,726 232,022 27,263 76,084 16,357
199
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate/coupon/
Discount
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
1 – 2
years
RM’000
2 – 5
years
RM’000
More
than
5 years
RM’000
2022
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Sukuk 202,487 3.72 233,450 7,420 7,440 218,590 –
Due to subsidiaries 3,393 – 3,393 3,393 – – –
Trade and other payables 28,471 – 28,471 28,471 – – –
Lease liabilities 4,520 5.00 8,130 527 414 774 6,415
Secured term loans 2,990 5.60 3,281 1,782 1,499 – –
Financial guarantee* – – 29,299 29,299 – – –
241,861 306,024 70,892 9,353 219,364 6,415
2021
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Loan from a shareholder 34,013 10.00 36,300 36,300 – – –
Due to subsidiaries 70,931 – 70,931 70,931 – – –
Trade and other payables 19,530 – 19,530 19,530 – – –
Secured bankers’
acceptances 6,424 3.12 – 3.20 6,424 6,424 – – –
Secured hire purchase
liabilities 10,088 2.46 – 5.60 11,011 4,333 3,102 3,576 –
Lease liabilities 4,046 5.00 7,831 247 221 701 6,662
Secured term loans 21,000 5.60 25,435 3,633 3,633 10,900 7,269
Revolving credit 4,074 5.60 4,074 4,074 – – –
Financial guarantee* – – 54,252 54,252 – – –
170,106 235,788 199,724 6,956 15,177 13,931
* The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is required to be settled in the event of a default and
the lenders, where applicable call on the Company to pay for a subsidiary.
26.6 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates
and other price risk that will affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are
denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Euro
(“EUR”), Australian Dollar (“AUD”) and New Zealand Dollar (“NZD”).
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
200
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company use forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge its foreign
currency risk. Most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after
the end of the reporting period. Where necessary, the forward contacts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group and the Company entered forward exchange contracts with notional contract amount
of RM19,322,070 (2021: NIL) and RM64,611 (2021: NIL) respectively in order to manage the foreign
currency exposures.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than the functional currency of the
Group and the Company are kept to an acceptable level.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currencies (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting
period was:
Denominated in
Group
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
AUD
RM’000
NZD
RM’000
2022
Cash and cash equivalents 6 55 2 3 –
Trade and other receivables 139 3,204 – 750 –
Trade and other payables (365) (33) (272) (1,309) –
(220) 3,226 (270) (556) –
2021
Cash and cash equivalents 6 118 2 3 –
Trade and other receivables 1,346 2,601 – – –
Trade and other payables (564) (35) (301) (1,059) (1,285)
788 2,684 (299) (1,056) (1,285)
Denominated in
Company
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
AUD
RM’000
2022
Trade and other receivables 17 95 750
Trade and other payables (297) (33) (1,309)
(280) 62 (559)
2021
Trade and other receivables – 14 –
Trade and other payables (124) (33) (1,059)
(124) (19) (1,059)
201
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2021: 10%) strengthening of the Ringgit Malaysia against the following currencies at the
end of the reporting period would have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by
the amounts shown below. This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that
the Group and the Company considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores
any impact of forecasted shares and purchases.
Profit or loss
Group Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
USD 17 (60) 21 9
SGD (245) (204) (5) 1
EUR 21 23 – –
AUD 42 80 42 80
NZD – 98 – –
A 10% (2021: 10%) weakening of Ringgit Malaysia against the above currencies at the end of the
reporting period would have had equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts
shown above, on the basis that all other variables remained constant.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s and Company’s investments in fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk
of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s variable
rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group has entered into interest rate swap with a notional contract amount of RM15,736,500
(2021: NIL) in order to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate exposure at 31 March
2022, the swap matures over the next five years following the maturity of a fixed rate bank loan of
1.05% and has a floating swap rate of AUD Bank Bill Swap Rate (“BBSY”) - 1 month.
The Group does not design the interest rate swap as the hedge instrument.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
202
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments and lease liabilities, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period
was:
Group Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets 1,088 1,437 – –
Financial liabilities (247,405) (165,776) (205,477) (44,511)
Lease liabilities (6,879) (7,014) (4,520) (10,088)
(253,196) (171,353) (209,997) (54,599)
Floating rate instruments
Financial assets – – – 21,000
Financial liabilities (37,213) (76,167) (2,990) (21,000)
(37,213) (76,167) (2,990) –
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at
fair value through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting
period would not affect profit or loss.
(b) Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 100 basis point (“bp”) in interest rate at the end of the reporting period would
have decreased equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis
assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Profit or loss
Group Company
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
100 bp
increase
RM’000
100 bp
decrease
RM’000
2022
Floating rate instruments (283) 283 (23) 23
2021
Floating rate instruments (579) 579 – –
203
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.6 Market risk (continued)
Other price risk
Price risk arises from the Group’s and the Company’s investments money market funds.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management of the Group and the Company monitor the other investments on portfolio basis.
The Group and the Company invest in money market funds which seek to invest in money market
instruments and deposit with licensed financial institution for reasonable rate of return on income
while maintaining capital stability.
Price risk sensitivity analysis
Money market funds
The fund is invested in money market instruments and deposited with licensed financial institution.
The net asset value (“NAV”) of the money market mainly depends on the performance of the financial
instruments which is affected by changes in the market interest rate.
At the end of the reporting period, with all the variables held constant, a change of 100 basis points
(“bp”) in the interest rate would have increased/(decreased) equity for investments classified as post-
tax profit or loss for investment classified as fair value through profit or loss by the amounts shown
below.
Profit or loss
2022
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
100bp increase 2,806 2,601
100bp decrease (2,806) (2,601)
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
204
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.7 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short term receivables, payables and short term
borrowings approximate fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments.
The table below analyses other financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at
fair value for which fair value is disclosed, together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown
in the statements of financial position.
Fair value of
financial
instruments
carried
at fair value
Level 2
RM’000
Fair value of
financial
instruments
not carried
at fair value
Level 3
RM’000
Total
fair value
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Group
2022
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts 783 – 783 783
Interest rate swap 736 – 736 736
Other investments 280,595 – 280,595 280,595
282,114 – 282,114 282,114
Financial liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities – (19,217) (19,217) (20,545)
Term loans – (18,913) (18,913) (18,726)
Sukuk – (202,487) (202,487) (202,487)
– (240,617) (240,617) (241,758)
2021
Financial liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities – (56,068) (56,068) (57,651)
Term loans – (67,620) (67,620) (68,668)
– (123,688) (123,688) (126,319)
Company
2022
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts 65 – 65 65
Other investments 260,108 – 260,108 260,108
260,173 – 260,173 260,173
Financial liabilities
Term loans – (2,990) (2,990) (2,990)
Sukuk – (202,487) (202,487) (202,487)
– (205,477) (205,477) (205,477)
2021
Financial liabilities
Hire purchase liabilities – (10,161) (10,161) (10,088)
Term loans – (21,000) (21,000) (21,000)
– (31,161) (31,161) (31,088)
205
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
27.7 Fair value information (continued)
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting
the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual
maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
(a) Financial instruments not carried at fair value
Type Description of valuation technique and inputs used
Term loans and hire purchase
liabilities
Discounted cash flows using a rate based on the current
market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities
at the reporting date.
28. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Current year’s addition 60,815,285 118,884,742 20,075,311 31,320,549
Less: Property, plant and equipment
acquired from hire purchase liabilities (504,284) (43,790,778) – (4,280,453)
60,311,001 75,093,964 20,075,311 27,040,096
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
206
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base to fund its growth and
safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group’s capital is represented by its
total equity in the statement of financial position.
The Directors monitor the adequacy of capital on an ongoing basis, whilst maintaining optimal debt-to-
equity ratio that complies with debt covenants. The Group is required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio
of not more than 1.0 times in accordance with the specified formulas as stated in the respective facility
agreement and trust deed.
The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2021 were as follows:
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Total loans and borrowings (Note 17) 284,618 241,943
Lease liabilities 6,879 7,014
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 14) (28,103) (11,724)
Net debt 263,394 237,233
Total equity 610,963 241,030
Debt-to-equity ratio 0.43 0.98
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
30. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Capital expenditure commitment
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for 2,955,647 1,046,153 248,578 126,000
Intangible assets
Contracted but not provided for 267,522 274,021 267,522 274,021
3,223,169 1,320,174 516,100 400,021
31. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Secured:
Corporate guarantees given to a financial institution in respect of
outstanding term loans and bankers’ acceptances of a subsidiary 29,299,329 54,252,114
207
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group or the
Company if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control
the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly
and entity that provides key management personnel services to the Group. The key management personnel
include all the Directors of the Group and certain members of senior management of the Group.
The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, person/companies connected to Directors,
shareholder, government related entities and key management personnel.
Significant related party transactions
The significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company are shown below. The balances
related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 8, 10, 17 and 18.
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
A. Subsidiaries
Sales of raw milk – – 44,772 –
Sales of finished goods – – 52,442,162 35,411,909
Sales of biological assets – – 14,932,357 5,015,755
Purchase of raw milk – – – (756,607)
Purchase of raw material – – (5,103,275) –
Purchase of biological assets – – (1,675,719) (695,782)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – – – (2,000)
Loan to subsidiaries – – 67,200,000 21,000,000
Loan interest – – 89,766 89,766
Management fee – – 393,851 51,168
B. Key management personnel
Directors
Remuneration 2,162,233 3,608,559 586,000 –
Other key management personnel
Remuneration 3,858,651 257,803 285,815 257,803
C. Minority shareholder in a subsidiary
Purchase of biological assets and other
animal health related products 16,582,813 9,692,186 16,582,813 9,505,989
D. Person connected to Directors
Purchase of motor vehicles 15,000 – – –
E. Companies connected to Directors
Sales of trading goods – 1,018,588 – –
Service fees – 293,000 – 293,000
Rental expense 15,000 – – –
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
208
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Significant related party transactions (continued)
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
F. Substantial shareholder
(see as Note G)
Interest accrual 551,507 3,012,603 551,507 3,012,603
Purchase of raw material from a
subsidiary of a shareholder 84,000 345,000 84,000 345,000
Logistics services rendered from an
associate of a shareholder 219,082 599,462 140,319 44,947
Rental expenses payable to a subsidiary
of a shareholder – 57,817 – –
G. Government – related entities
A wholly-owned subsidiary of Khazanah Nasional Berhad which is owned by the Government of
Malaysia, is a substantial shareholder with more than 10% shareholding and Board representation in
the Company.
As a result, the Malaysian Government owned entities (collectively referred to as “government-related
entities”) are related parties of the Group and the Company.
The Group and the Company had entered into transactions with government-related entities in the
ordinary course of business operations, which include but are not limited to utilities and financial and
treasury services. The Group and the Company are principally involved in investment holding, rearing
of dairy cows and goats and the production, marketing and sale of consumers’ products. These
transactions are on commercial terms that are consistently applied to all customers and are comparable
to those with other entities that are not government-related and as such are not disclosed in these
financial statements.
33. SIGNIFICANT EVENT
33.1 On 31 March 2021, the Group has filed a legal action in Australia against Shepparton Partners
Collective Group for various misrepresentations to The Holstein Milk Company (Australia) Pty Ltd
during the course of due diligence of the business acquisition.
As at 31 March 2022, the case is still ongoing, and in the Directors’ opinion, disclosure of any further
information about the above matter would be prejudicial to the interests of the Group.
33.2 On 22 March 2022, the Company is listed on Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad with
a public issue of 222,954,700 new ordinary shares in the Company and offer for sale by selling
shareholders of up to 520,227,200 ordinary shares in the Company at a price of RM1.35 per share.
209
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | Section 07 Financial Statements | 08 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
34. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
On 24 May 2022, the Company exercised the call option in respect of the entire issued and paid up share
capital of The Provenance Creamery Pte Ltd (“Provenance Creamery”) granted by Loh Ngat Mui at a
consideration of SGD1.00. Following the exercise of the call option, Provenance Creamery becomes the
Company’s wholly owned subsidiary. The details of the call option had been disclosed in Section 11.1.1
of the Company’s Prospectus dated 11 February 2022.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group has entered into an agreement to purchase an industrial land at
a consideration of RM18,241,366.
Additionally, in Australia, the Group also completed in June 2022 both the sale of one of its farm properties
with a size of approximately 350 acres for a total sale consideration of AUD2.0 million and an acquisition
of a farm property with a size of approximately 300 acres for a purchase consideration of AUD3.5 million
respectively.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
210
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Issued Share Capital : 1,857,954,837
Class of Shares : Ordinary Share
Number of Holders : 18,854
Voting Right : 1 vote per Ordinary Share
Size of Holders
No. of
Holders
% of
Holders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
1 – 99 65 0.344 1,222 0.000
100 – 1,000 6,149 32.614 3,798,916 0.204
1,001 – 10,000 10,030 53.199 43,349,165 2.334
10,001 – 100,000 2,168 11.499 60,156,678 3.238
100,001 – 92,897,740* 439 2.329 704,100,721 37.897
92,897,741 and above** 3 0.015 1,046,548,135 56.327
TOTAL 18,854 100.000 1,857,954,837 100.000
* Less than 5% of issued shares
** 5% and above of issued shares
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
Direct Indirect
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
1. Rainforest Capital Sdn. Bhd. 571,011,515 30.733 – –
2. Farmchoice Foods Sdn. Bhd. 256,298,020 13.795 –
3. Agrifood Resources Holdings Sdn. Bhd. 219,238,600 11.800 – –
4. Khazanah Nasional Berhad – – 219,238,600 11.800
5. Employees Provident Fund Board 103,717,800 5.582 – –
6. Loi Tuan Ee 7,338,801 0.395 827,309,535 44.528
7. Loi Foon Kion – – 571,011,515 30.733
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
Direct Indirect
No. Name of Directors
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
1. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin
bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas 500,000 0.027 – –
2. Loi Tuan Ee 7,338,801 0.395 827,309,535 44.528
3. Loi Foon Kion – – 571,011,515 30.733
4. Dato' Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.Hassan
Nizam 500,000 0.027 – –
5. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng 500,000 0.027 – –
6. Sukanta Kumar Dutt – – – –
7. Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly – – – –
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 30 June 2022
211
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section  08   Shareholders’ Information |
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME
REGISTERED HOLDER)
No. Name of Holders Holdings %
1. RAINFOREST CAPITAL SDN. BHD. 571,011,515 30.733
2. FARMCHOICE FOODS SDN. BHD. 256,298,020 13.795
3. AGRIFOOD RESOURCES HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 219,238,600 11.800
4. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD 70,676,300 3.803
5. LEMBAGA TABUNG HAJI
BHG PEMEROSESAN PELABURAN 40,700,000 2.190
6. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA PERMODALAN NASIONAL BERHAD 30,700,000 1.652
7. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
URUSHARTA JAMAAH SDN. BHD. (2) 24,481,300 1.317
8. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CAHAYA BINTANG LTD 23,633,900 1.272
9. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) (ABERDEEN) 21,153,700 1.138
10. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PAMB FOR PRULINK EQUITY FUND 18,684,800 1.005
11. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERDEEN) 17,733,900 0.954
12. IFAST NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
GLOBAL SUCCESS NETWORK SDN. BHD. 15,000,000 0.807
13. HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
JPMSE LUX FOR JPMORGAN FUNDS 13,554,800 0.729
14. HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
JPMCB NA FOR JPMORGAN ASEAN FUND (BK EASTASIA TST) 11,974,000 0.644
15. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR AIA BHD. 11,272,500 0.606
16. PERMODALAN NASIONAL BERHAD
INVESTMENT PROCESSING DEPT 10,000,000 0.538
17. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
AMANAH SAHAM BUMIPUTERA 3 – DIDIK
PERMODALAN NASIONAL BERHAD 9,417,880 0.506
18. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PBTB FOR TAKAFULINK DANA EKUITI 9,390,700 0.505
19. HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
TNTC FOR BARINGS ASEAN FRONTIERS FUND 9,036,900 0.486
20. CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR MERIT GLORY PTE LTD 9,000,000 0.484
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
212
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 30 June 2022
LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS (CONT’D.)
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME
REGISTERED HOLDER)
No. Name of Holders Holdings %
21. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR CITIBANK NEW YORK (NORGES BANK 19) 8,252,000 0.444
22. LOI TUAN EE 7,338,801 0.395
23. HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD.
HSBC BK PLC FOR ASIA EX JAPAN EQUITY SMALLER COMPANIES (LXG HGIF) 7,163,200 0.385
24. HONG LEONG ASSURANCE BERHAD AS BENEFICIAL OWNER (LIFE PAR) 6,995,000 0.376
25. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD FOR KENANGA SHARIAH GROWTH
OPPORTUNITIES FUND (50156 TR01) 6,318,500 0.340
26. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
TMF TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR AFFIN HWANG WHOLESALE
EQUITY FUND 5,837,000 0.314
27. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
GREAT EASTERN LIFE ASSURANCE (MALAYSIA) BERHAD (DR) 5,634,400 0.303
28. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ABERISLAMIC) 5,428,500 0.292
29. HSBC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
HSBC (M) TRUSTEE BHD FOR PERTUBUHAN KESELAMATAN SOSIAL
(UOB AMM6939-406) 4,989,400 0.268
30. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
MAYBANK TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR ARECA EQUITYTRUST FUND (211882) 4,954,400 0.266
TOTAL 1,455,870,016 78.359
213
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section  08   Shareholders’ Information |
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 30 June 2022
Location Description
Current
Use Tenure
Remaining
Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
Age of
Building
Approximate
Land Area
(sq.m.)
Net Book
Value
RM'000
11& 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
One single-storey
factory building and
two-storey office
building
Processing
facility and
Office
Leasehold
99 years
19 years
(expiring 23.10.2041)
35 years 3,836 3,749
14A, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80300 Johor Bahru, Johor
Single-storey factory
building
Processing
facility and
Warehouse
Leasehold
99 years
10 years
(expiring 12.06.2032)
44 years 5,666 1,932
PTD 2975, Batu 13,
Jalan Mersing, 81900 Kota
Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
99 years
13 years
(expiring 04.01.2035)
– 1,905,890 8,441
315 Fidge Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 6,114,178 28,267
490 Neal Road & 515 Norton
Road & 695 Norton Road,
Undera VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 2,950,849 7,428
705 Echuca Road,
Ardmona VIC 3629
Dairy farm Farming Freehold – – 1,407,395 6,114
85 McCormick Road,
Kyabram VIC 3620
Single-storey factory
building
Processing
facility,
Warehouse
and Office
Freehold – 2 years 69,978 30,967
PTD 1721, KM10,
Jalan Sedili Kecil,
Mukim Sedili Kecil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
30 years
26 years
(expiring 27.03.2048)
– 1,214,058 3,666
Plot D, KM6, Muadzam Shah,
Jalan Muadzam – Rompin,
26700, Pahang Darul Makmur
Dairy farm, One
single-storey factory
building and
two-storey office
building
Farming,
Processing
facility,
Warehouse
and Office
Leasehold
33 years
25 years
(expiring 04.04.2047)
4 years 2,448,350 18,440
HSD 5570 PT 11701,
Kampung Kundang,
Mukim Bebar, Daerah Pekan,
Pahang Darul Makmur
Dairy farm Farming Leasehold
30 years
28 years
(expiring 31.12.2050)
– 2,023,430 1,507
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
214
LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES
MALAYSIA
AUSTRALIA
MUADZAM SHAH, PAHANG
Plot D, KM6, Jalan Rompin,
26700 Muadzam Shah, Pahang
UPM SERDANG, SELANGOR
Ladang 16, Bahagian Ternakan,
Taman Pertanian Universiti,
Universiti Putra Malaysia,
43400 Serdang, Selangor
DESARU, JOHOR
PTD 1721, KM 10,
Jalan Sedili Kechil,
Mukim Sedili Kechil,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
MAWAI, JOHOR
PTD 2975,
Mukim Ulu Sungai Sedili Besar,
81900 Kota Tinggi, Johor
TAIPING, PERAK
PT 12802,
Mukim Batu Kurau,
Pondok Tanjung,
34010 Daerah Larut Matang, Perak
KYABRAM, VICTORIA
85 McCormick Road, Kyabram,
Victoria 3620
Tel : +61(0)3 5852 1111
GREATER SHEPPARTON, VICTORIA
315 Fidge Road, Undera,
Victoria 3629
LARKIN, JOHOR
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
Tel : +607 232 3463, +607 232 8771
Fax : +607 232 7622
HQ Office and
Processing Facility
Legends:
Farm and Processing
Facility
Farm
215
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section 08 Shareholders’ Information |
GROUP CORPORATE DIRECTORY
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 March 2022 and the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Please refer to Explanatory
Note 8(a)(i)
2. To approve a final single tier dividend of 1.07 sen per share in respect of
the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
Resolution 1
3. To re-elect the following Directors, each of whom is retiring by rotation in
accordance with Clause 76(3) and Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution
and being eligible, has offered himself/ herself for re-election:-
(i) Mr. Loi Tuan Ee
(ii) Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji
Megat Khas
(iii) Ms. Loi Foon Kion
(iv) Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt
(v) Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
(vi) Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
(vii) Encik Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
Resolution 2
Resolution 3
Resolution 4
Resolution 5
Resolution 6
Resolution 7
Resolution 8
4 . To approve the Directors fees up to RM550,000.00 to the following Directors
for the period from the 1 April 2022 to the next AGM of the Company to
be held in 2023.
Resolution 9
5. To approve the payment of benefits of up to RM72,000.00 to Non-Executive
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the period from 1 April 2022 to
the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2023.
Resolution 10
6. To re-appoint Messrs. KPMG PLT as the External Auditors of the Company
for the financial year ending 31 March 2023 and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 11
7. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
given in accordance with the Companies Act 2016.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
YONG MAY LI (f) WONG CHEE YIN (f)
(LS0000295) (SSM Practicing (MAICSA 7023530) (SSM Practicing
Certificate No. 202008000285) Certificate No. 202008001953)
Company Secretaries Johor Bahru
Dated: 29 July 2022
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE ELEVENTH (11TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF FARM
FRESH BERHAD (“FFB or the Company”) (“AGM”) will be conducted on a fully virtual manner
through live streaming and online remote meeting platform of TIIH Online provided
by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. via its website at https://tiih.online or
https://tiih.com.my (Domain registration number with MYNIC: D1A282781) on Monday,
29 August 2022 At 2:30 P.M to transact the following businesses:-
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
216
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to
Participate at this 11th AGM, the Company shall be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd., to make
available to the Company a Record of Depositor as at
22 August 2022. Only members whose names appear
therein shall be entitled to Participate at this 11th AGM
or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on his/her behalf.
2. A member entitled to Participate at this 11th AGM is
entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of
a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative
to attend, participate, speak and vote in his place. A
proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those
proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be in accordance
with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee
as defined in the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not
more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities
account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company
standing to the credit of the said securities account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised
nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company
for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
(“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of
proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An
exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised
nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act
which is exempted from compliance with the provisions
of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
6. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy,
the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by
each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing
the proxies.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard
copy form or by electronic means in the following manner
and must be received by the Company not less than
forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the General Meeting or adjourned General
Meeting at which the person named in the appointment
proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy
form, this proxy form must be deposited at the office
of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South,
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its
Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur;
(ii) Online
As In the case of an appointment made via online
lodgment facility, please login to the link website
at https://tiih.online and select “e-Services” to login.
Please refer to the Administrative Notes on how to
register to TIIH Online and submit your Form of
Proxy electronically.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment
is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at
the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing
House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower
A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No.
8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer
Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or
adjourned General Meeting at which the person named
in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power
of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal
requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is
executed.
9. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this
proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
10. Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is 2.30
p.m. on Saturday, 27 August 2022.
11. A corporate member who has appointed a representative,
please deposit the ORIGINAL or duly certified certificate
of appointment with the office of the Share Registrar,
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit
32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3,
Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South,
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur. The certificate
of appointment should be executed in the following
manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the
certificate of appointment should be executed under
seal in accordance with the constitution of the
corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common
seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed
with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if
any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one
shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in
accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated.
12. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29(1) of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all
the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM shall be put
to vote by poll.
217
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section 08 Shareholders’ Information |
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Explanatory Note on Ordinary and Special Business:
Ordinary Business
(i) Item 1 of Agenda
This item is meant for discussion only as the provision
of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016
does not require a formal approval of the shareholders
for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this
Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Ordinary Resolution 1
The proposed dividend is in accordance with the
dividend policy which had been disclosed in FFB’s
prospectus Section 12.4, i.e., distribute 25% of net
profit of each fiscal year on a consolidated basis after
taking into account working capital and maintenance
capital requirements.
The dividend payment date is fixed on 15 September
2022
(iii) Ordinary Resolutions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8
Pursuant to Clause 76(3) & Clause 78 of the
Company’s Constitution, Mr. Loi Tuan Ee; Tan Sri
Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr.
Haji Megat Khas; Ms. Loi Foon Kion; Mr. Sukanta
Kumar Dutt; Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A.
Hassan Nizam; Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng; and Encik
Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly are standing for re-election
at this 11th AGM and being eligible, have offered
themselves for re-election as Directors of the
Company.
The Board of Directors has through the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee carried out the
necessary assessment on the aforesaid Directors and
concluded that they met the criteria as prescribed
under Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing
Requirements on character, experience, integrity,
competence and time commitment to effectively
discharge their roles as Directors.
CLOSURE OF BOOKS
To determine shareholders’ entitlement to the dividend payment, if approved at the 11th AGM of the Company, the Share
transfer books and Register of Members will be closed on 2 September 2022.
The dividend, if approved, will be paid on 15 September 2022 to shareholders whose names appear in the Register of
Members and Record of Depositors at the close of business on 2 September 2022.
A depositor shall qualify for entitlement to the dividend only in respect of:
(a) shares transferred into the depositor’s securities account before 4:30 p.m. on 2 September 2022 in respect of transfers;
and
(b) shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad.
The profiles of the Directors standing for re-election
are provided on pages 65 to 71 in the 2022 Annual
Report.
(iv) Ordinary Resolution 9 and 10
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act
2016, the fees of the Directors and any benefits
payable to the Directors of a listed Company and
its subsidiaries shall be approved at the General
Meeting.
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 9 is to facilitate
the payment of Directors’ Fee for the Period from
1 April 2022 up to the next Annual General Meeting
to be held in 2023.
The Proposed Ordinary Resolution 10 are for the
Directors’ benefits and meeting allowance based on
the number of scheduled meetings for the Board
and Board Committee up to the next Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2023.
(v) Ordinary Resolution 11
The Audit and Risk Management Committee had at
its meeting held on 21 July 2022 assessed the
suitability and the independence of the External
Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of
Messrs. KPMG PLT as External Auditors of the
Company for the financial year ending 31 March
2023. The Board has in turn reviewed the
recommendation of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and recommended the same be tabled
to the shareholders for approval for the forthcoming
AGM of the Company.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
218
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
THAT THE ELEVENTH (11TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF FARM FRESH BERHAD (“FFB”)
WILL BE CONDUCTED ON A FULLY VIRTUAL MANNER THROUGH LIVE STREAMING AND
ONLINE REMOTE MEETING PLATFORM OF TIIH ONLINE PROVIDED BY TRICOR INVESTOR &
ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD. VIA ITS WEBSITE AT HTTPS://TIIH.ONLINE OR
HTTPS://TIIH.COM.MY (DOMAIN REGISTRATION NUMBER WITH MYNIC: D1A282781) ON
MONDAY, 29 AUGUST 2022 AT 2:30 P.M.
DIRECTORS STANDING FOR ELECTION/APPOINTMENT
There are no individuals standing for election/appointment as Directors at the 2022 Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”).
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
FFB wishes to highlight the Directors who are standing for re-election pursuant to Clause 76(3) and Clause
78 of the Company’s Constitution at the 11th Annual General Meeting of the Company are as follows:
1. Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution
· Mr. Loi Tuan Ee
2. Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution
· Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat Khas
· Ms. Loi Foon Kion
· Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt
· Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam
· Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng
· Encik Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly
The Profiles of the above Directors are set out on pages 65 to 71 of this Integrated Annual Report.
219
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section 08 Shareholders’ Information |
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING THE NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Precautionary Measures Against the Coronavirus
Disease (“COVID-19”)
· In light of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
and in line with the Guidance and Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQs) on the Conduct of General Meetings
for Listed Issuers issued by the Securities Commission
Malaysia (including any amendment(s) that may be
made from time to time) (SC Guidance), the AGM
of the Company will be conducted fully virtual
through live streaming and online remote platform
provided by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd. (“Tricor”) in Malaysia via its TIIH Online
website at https://tiih.online. Members are to attend,
speak (including posing questions to the Board of
Directors of Farm Fresh Berhad (“FFB”) via real time
submission of typed texts) and vote (collectively,
“Participate”) remotely at this AGM via Remote
Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities provided
by Tricor.
· According to the Revised Guidance Note and FAQs
on the Conduct of General Meetings for Listed Issuers
issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia on
7 April 2022, an online meeting platform located
in Malaysia is recognised as the meeting venue and
all meeting participants of a fully virtual general
meeting are required to participate in the meeting
online.
Date : Monday, 29 August 2022
Time : 2.30 p.m.
Online Meeting Platform : https://tiih.online
· We strongly encourage you to attend the AGM via
the RPV facilities. You may also consider appointing
the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy to attend
and vote on your behalf at the AGM.
· Due to the constant evolving COVID-19 situation in
Malaysia, we may be required to change the
arrangements of our AGM at short notice. Kindly
check the Company’s website or announcements
for the latest updates on the status of the AGM.
· The Company will continue to observe the guidelines
issued by the Ministry of Health and will take all
relevant precautionary measures as advised.
Remote Participation and Voting
· The RPV facilities are available on Tricor’s TIIH Online
website at https://tiih.online.
· Shareholders are to attend, speak (in the form of
real time submission of typed texts) and vote
(collectively, “participate”) remotely at the AGM using
RPV facilities from Tricor.
· Kindly refer to Procedures for RPV as set out below
for the requirements and procedures.
Procedures to Remote Participation and Voting via
RPV Facilities
· Please read and follow the procedures below to
engage in remote participation through live
streaming and online remote voting at the AGM
using the RPV facilities:
BEFORE THE AGM DAY
Procedure Action
i. Register as a user with
TIIH Online
· Using your computer, access to website at https://tiih.online. Register as a
user under the “e-Services” select the “Sign Up” button and followed by
“Create Account by Individual Holder”. Refer to the tutorial guide posted
on the homepage for assistance.
· Registration as a user will be approved within one (1) working day and you
will be notified via e-mail.
· If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register
again. You will receive an e-mail to notify you that the remote participation
is available for registration at TIIH Online.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
220
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR
THE 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Procedure Action
ii. Submit your request to
attend AGM remotely
· Registration is open from Friday, 29 July 2022 until the day of AGM on
Monday, 29 August 2022. Shareholder(s) or proxy(ies) or corporate
representative(s) or attorney(s) are required to pre-register their attendance
for the AGM to ascertain their eligibility to participate the AGM using the
RPV facilities.
· Login with your user ID (i.e. e-mail address) and password and select the
corporate event: “(REGISTRATION) Farm Fresh Berhad 11th AGM”.
· Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
· Select “Register for Remote Participation and Voting”.
· Review your registration and proceed to register.
· System will send an e-mail to notify that your registration for remote
participation is received and will be verified.
· After verification of your registration against the Record of Depositors as at
22 August 2022, the system will send you an e-mail on or after 27 August
2022 to approve or reject your registration for remote participation.
(Note: Please allow sufficient time for approval of new user of TIIH Online and registration
for the RPV).
ON THE AGM DAY
Procedure Action
i. Login to TIIH Online · Login with your user ID and password for remote participation at the AGM
at any time from 1.30 pm i.e. 1 hour before the commencement of meeting
at 2.30 pm on Monday, 29 August 2022.
ii. Participate through
Live Streaming
· Select the corporate event: “(LIVE STREAM MEETING) Farm Fresh Berhad
11th AGM” to engage in the proceedings of the AGM remotely. If you have
any question for the Chairman/Board, you may use the query box to transmit
your question. The Chairman/Board will try to respond to questions submitted
by remote participants during the AGM. If there is time constraint, the
responses will be e-mailed to you at the earliest possible, after the meeting.
iii. Online remote voting · Voting session commences from 2.30 pm on Monday, 29 August 2022 until
a time when the Chairman announces the end of the session.
· Select the corporate event: “(REMOTE VOTING) Farm Fresh Berhad 11th AGM”
or if you are on the live stream meeting page, you can select “GO TO REMOTE
VOTING PAGE” button below the Query Box.
· Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
· Select the CDS account that represents your shareholdings.
· Indicate your votes for the resolutions that are tabled for voting.
· Confirm and submit your votes.
iv. End of remote
participation
· Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the conclusion of the AGM,
the Live Streaming will end.
BEFORE THE AGM DAY (CONTINUED)
221
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section 08 Shareholders’ Information |
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Note to users of the RPV facilities:
1. Should your registration for RPV be approved, we will make available to you the rights to join the live
stream meeting and to vote remotely. Your login to TIIH Online on the day of meeting will indicate your
presence at the virtual meeting.
2. The quality of your connection to the live broadcast is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the
internet at your location and the device you use.
3. In the event you encounter any issues with logging-in, connection to the live stream meeting or online
voting on the meeting day, kindly call Tricor Help Line at 011-4080 5616/011-4080 3168/
011-4080 3169/011-4080 3170 for assistance or e-mail to tiih.online@my.tricorglobal.com for assistance.
Entitlement to Participate and Appointment of Proxy
· Only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 22 August 2022 shall be eligible to
attend, speak and vote at the AGM or appoint a proxy(ies) and/or the Chairman of the Meeting to attend
and vote on his/her behalf.
· In view that the AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis, a member can appoint the Chairman of the
Meeting as his/her proxy and indicate the voting instruction in the Proxy Form.
· If you wish to participate in the AGM yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form for the AGM. You will
not be allowed to participate in the AGM together with a proxy appointed by you.
· Accordingly, proxy forms and/or documents relating to the appointment of proxy/corporate representative/
attorney for the AGM whether in hard copy or by electronic means shall be deposited or submitted in the
following manner not later than Saturday, 27 August 2022 at 2.30 pm:
(i) In Hard copy:
By hand or post to the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur;
(ii) By Electronic form:
All shareholders can have the option to submit proxy forms electronically via TIIH Online and the steps
to submit are summarised below:
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
· Using your computer, please access the website at https://tiih.online. Register
as a user under the “e-Services”. Please refer to the tutorial guide posted on
the homepage for assistance.
· If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register
again.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
222
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Entitlement to Participate and Appointment of Proxy (continued)
(ii) By Electronic form: (continued)
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Shareholders (continued)
Proceed with
submission of form
of proxy
· After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the Company, login with your
username (i.e. email address) and password.
· Select the corporate event: “Farm Fresh Berhad 11th AGM – SUBMISSION
OF PROXY FORM”.
· Read and agree to the Terms and Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
· Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number of shares for your
proxy(s) to vote on your behalf.
· Appoint your proxy(s) and insert the required details of your proxy(s) or appoint
the Chairman as your proxy.
· Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST, otherwise your proxy will
decide on your votes.
· Review and confirm your proxy(s) appointment.
· Print the form of proxy for your record.
ii. Steps for corporation or institutional shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
· Access TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
· Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated representative of the corporation
or institutional shareholder selects the “Sign Up” button and followed by
“Create Account by Representative of Corporate Holder”.
· Complete the registration form and upload the required documents.
· Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by email within one (1)
to two (2) working days.
· Proceed to activate your account with the temporary password given in the
email and reset your own password.
(Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional shareholder must register as
a user in accordance with the above steps before he/she can subscribe to this corporate
holder electronic proxy submission. Please contact our Share Registrar if you need
clarifications on the user registration.)
Proceed with
submission of form
of proxy
· Login to TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
· Select the corporate event name: “Farm Fresh Berhad 11th AGM – SUBMISSION
OF PROXY FORM”.
· Agree to the Terms & Conditions and Declaration.
· Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” in
accordance with the Guidance Note set therein.
· Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
· Login to TIIH Online, select corporate event name: “Farm Fresh Berhad 11th
AGM – SUBMISSION OF PROXY FORM”.
· Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
· Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
· Print the confirmation report of your submission for your record.
223
| 01 | 02 | 03 | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 | Section 08 Shareholders’ Information |
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Voting at Meeting
· The voting at the AGM will be conducted on a poll
pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”). The Company has
appointed Tricor to conduct the poll voting
electronically (“e-voting”) via Tricor e-Vote application
(“Tricor e-Vote App”).
· Shareholders can proceed to vote on the resolutions
before the end of the voting session which will be
announced by the Chairman of the Meeting and
submit your votes at any time from the
commencement of the AGM at 2.30 pm. Kindly refer
to “Procedures to Remote Participation and Voting
via RPV Facilities” provided above for guidance on
how to vote remotely via TIIH Online.
Door Gift or Food Voucher
· There will be no door gifts or food vouchers for
attending the AGM.
No Recording or Photography
· Unauthorised recording and photography are strictly
prohibited at the AGM.
Pre-Meeting Submission of Questions to the Board
of Directors
· The Board recognises that the AGM is a valuable
opportunity for the Board to engage with
shareholders. In order to enhance the efficiency of
the proceedings of the AGM, shareholders may in
advance, before the AGM, submit questions to the
Board of Directors via Tricor’s TIIH Online website
at https://tiih.online, by selecting “e-Services” to login,
post your questions and submit it electronically no
later than Saturday, 27 August 2022 at 2.30 pm.
The Board of Directors will endeavour to address
the questions received at the AGM.
Annual Report and Circular to Shareholders
The following documents are available for downloading
from our corporate website at www.ctosdigital.com or
by scanning the QR code:
1. Annual Report 2022
2. Corporate Governance Report 2022
3. Notice of the 2022 AGM
4. Proxy Form
5. Administrative Details
In an effort to support green environment, we
encourage shareholders to refer to the electronic copy
of the abovementioned documents. However, you may
request for a printed copy of our Integrated Annual
Report 2022 through telephone or email at the
number or e-mail address given below or request at
https://tiih.online by selecting “Request for Annual
Report/Circulars” under the “Investor Services”.
Enquiry
· If you have any enquiry prior to the meeting, please
call our Share Registrar, Tricor at +603-2783 9299
during office hours i.e. from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm
(Monday to Friday), or alternatively email to
is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com.
FARM FRESH BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
224
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE 11TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
CDS Account No. No. of Shares held
I/We __________________________________________________________________ Tel: ________________________________________
[Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
[Full Address]
being member(s) of FARM FRESH BERHAD (“FFB” or the “Company”), hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting, as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the
Eleventh (11th) Annual General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a fully virtual manner through live
streaming and online remote meeting platform of TIIH Online provided by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd. via its website at https://tiih.online or https://tiih.com.my (Domain registration number with MYNIC:
D1A282781) on Monday, 29 August 2022 at 2:30 P.M. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/Our proxy is to vote as indicated below:
No Agenda Resolution For Against
1. To approve a final single tier dividend of 1.07 sen per share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 March 2022.
1
2. To re-elect Mr Loi Tuan Ee, retiring pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Constitution
of the Company.
2
3. To re-elect Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Haji Megat Najmuddin Bin Datuk Seri Dr. Haji Megat
Khas, retiring pursuant to Clause 78 of the Constitution of the Company.
3
4. To re-elect Ms. Loi Foon Kion, retiring pursuant to Clause 78 of the Constitution
of the Company.
4
5. To re-elect Mr. Sukanta Kumar Dutt, retiring pursuant to Clause 78 of the Constitution
of the Company.
5
6. To re-elect Dato’ Dr. Quaza Nizamuddin Bin A. Hassan Nizam, retiring pursuant to
Clause 78 of the Constitution of the Company.
6
7. To re-elect Ms. Jocelyn Ng Lai Leng, retiring pursuant to Clause 78 of the Constitution
of the Company.
7
8. To re-elect Encik Effizal Faiz Bin Zulkifly, retiring pursuant to Clause 78 of the
Constitution of the Company.
8
9. To approve the Directors fees up to RM550,000.00 to the following Directors for
the period from 1 April 2022 to the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2023.
9
10. To approve the payment of benefits of up to RM72,000.00 to Non-Executive
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the period from 1 April 2022 to the
next AGM of the Company to be held in 2023.
10
11. To re-appoint Messrs. KPMG PLT as the External Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 March 2023 and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration.
11
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the
resolutions. In the absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this _______ day of _________________ 2022
___________________________________
Signature*
Member
Contact No
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be
executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form
should be affixed with the rubber stamp of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country
under which your corporation is incorporated.
FORM OF PROXY
Fold this flap for sealing
1st fold here
Then fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
[Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)]
Unit 32-01, level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to Participate at this 11th AGM, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd., to make available to the Company a
Record of Depositor as at 22 August 2022. Only members whose names appear therein shall
be entitled to Participate at this 11th AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on his/her
behalf.
2. A member entitled to Participate at this 11th AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or
in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands
shall be in accordance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
4. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two
(2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company
standing to the credit of the said securities account.
5. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares
in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”),
there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint
in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from
compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
6. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be
represented by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the
following manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours
before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, this proxy form must be deposited at
the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur
Online
As In the case of an appointment made via online lodgment facility, please login to the link
website at https://tiih.online and select “e-Services” to login. Please refer to the Administrative
Guide on how to register to TIIH Online and submit your Form of Proxy electronically.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must
be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn
Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur not less
than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or
adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or
in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is
executed.
9. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and
dated accordingly.
10. Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is 2.30 p.m. on Saturday, 27 August 2022.
11. A corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL or duly
certified certificate of appointment with the office of the Share Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing
House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at
Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be
executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment
should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed
by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated
12. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM shall be put to vote by poll.
FARM FRESH BERHAD
Co. Reg. No.: 201001010221 (894851-U)
No. 11-1, Jalan Petaling,
Kawasan Perindustrian Larkin,
80350 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
Tel		 +607 232 3463
		 +607 232 8771
Fax		 +607 232 7622
www.farmfresh.com.my
