76
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Commitmentto
GoodGovernance
The Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (“CG Overview
Statement”) explains how the Company
has applied the following three (3) key
principles set out in the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”)
during the FY2022:
This statement is prepared in
compliance with Main Market Listing
Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”) and to be read together
with the Corporate Governance
Report for detailed disclosures of
the Company’s application of the
principles in the MCCG, which is
available on the Company’s website
at www.kawanfood.com.
Principle A:
BOARD LEADERSHIP
AND EFFECTIVENESS
Refer to pages 76 to 83 for more info.
Principle B:
EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND
RISK MANAGEMENT
Refer to page 84 for more info.
Principle C:
INTEGRITY IN
CORPORATE REPORTING
AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
Refer to page 85 for more info.
PRINCIPLE A:
BOARD LEADERSHIP
AND EFFECTIVENESS
-
Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for setting strategic directions of the
Group and oversees the business affairs of the Group to ensure long-term
success. The Board’s role and responsibilities, authorities and schedule of
matters reserved for the Board are detailed in the Board Charter which is
available for reference on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
In order to ensure effective discharge of the responsibilities of the Board, the
Board has delegated some of its authority and powers to its committees,
namely, Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Remuneration
Committee (“Board Committees”).
77 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the
Company”) advocates the principles of good corporate governance. Throughout
the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”), the Board and the Company
continue to enhance its corporate governance processes to ensure that the
Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are aligned with best practices.
The Board
Responsible to promote long term sustainable success
and generate value for shareholders and stakeholders
Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”)
Group Management Team
Board Committees
Assist the Board in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities.
The Board Committees are responsible for overseeing
activities within its Terms of Reference (“TOR”)
Audit
Committee
(“AC”)
Responsibilities
• Internal audit
• External audit
• Risk
management
• Financial
reporting
• Audit reports
• Related party
transactions
• Internal controls
• Conflict of
interest
Nominating
Committee
(“NC”)
Responsibilities
• Board size and
composition
• Selection and
recruitment of
Directors
• Board
performance
evaluation
• Committees’
performance
evaluation
• Directors’ training
Remuneration
Committee
(“RC”)
Responsibilities
• Remuneration
packages
• Directors’ fees
and benefits
• Performance
measures
for incentive
plans
Board Activities in FY2022
• During the financial under review, the Board focusing on discussing
and deliberating on opportunities in the industry, business plan and
its strategic direction.
• The Board approved the following proposals:
a) proposed subscription of 32.5% equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn
Bhd by KG Pastry Marketing Sdn Bhd, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Company;
b) proposed acquisition of 40% shares in KLBG Sdn Bhd and
become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company;
c) proposed joint venture business between Kawan Food
Manufacturing Sdn Bhd (“KFM”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company and Good2Nature Sdn Bhd in establish a Joint Venture
Company; and
d) proposed acquisition of vacant leasehold industrial land in
Shah Alam by KFM. Subsequently on 16 December 2022 , both
KFM and the vendor mutually terminated the deal.
• Discussed and approved on Sustainability Framework, policies and
focus on the execution of the sustainability roadmap;
• Reviewed and approved the proposed Business Continuity Planning
Management Manual;
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the NC and RC
Committees;
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the AC on its oversight
of financial performance, related party transactions, internal controls,
risks and management on the work undertaken by each committee;
• Allocation of Employees’ Share Option Scheme to GCEO;
• Received reports and updates from GCEO on operational and financial
performance of the Group and other key matters;
• Approved the proposed promotion and remuneration package of Mr
Andy Yeap Chee Keong as Chief Operating Officer (“COO”);
• Deliberated and approved the Group’s financial budget and Capex
Budget for Financial Year Ending 31 December 2023;
• Approved the Company’s full year and interim results;
• Approved the proposed interim single-tier dividend;
• Discussed updates on corporate governance and regulatory matters;
• Reviewed and approved the TOR of NC, RC, and AC to align with the
MCCG 2021 and MMLR of Bursa Securities;
• Reviewed and approved the proposed amendment of the constitution
to leverage the use of technology in conducting general meetings
and facilitate communication and engagements with shareholders
electronically;
• Recommended the proposed authority for the Company to purchase its
own ordinary shares for shareholders’ approval; and
• Conducted reviews and approved Kawan’s annual report.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Board Key Focus Areas in FY2022
Review Group
strategies, plans
and budget
Acquisitions
and Joint
Venture
Developed a
sustainability
roadmap to 2030
01 02 03
78
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The details of Board’s responsibilities are set out
in the Board Charter which are available online at
www.kawanfood.com.
The Board members have unrestricted access to the
information pertaining to the Company to discharge
their duties and responsibilities. The Board also has
access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretaries and may obtain independent professional
advice at the Company’s expense as and when
necessary.
Executive Chairman
The roles of the Chairman and GCEO are separate
and distinct. There is a clear division of responsibilities
between the two roles. The Chairman is responsible
for providing leadership and instilling good corporate
governance and effectiveness of the Board.
Executive Directors (“ED”)
The EDs are responsible for day-to-day management
of the business operations.
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director (“NINED”)
The NINED utilise his skills, expertise and experience to
contribute to the development of the Group as a whole.
GCEO
The GCEO is primarily responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Group’s business within a set of
authorities, Group’s strategies, policies and business
plans approved and delegated by the Board.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (“SINED”)
The SINED acts as a sounding board for the Chairman
and to serve as an intermediary for other Directors
when necessary. He is also the point of contact for
major shareholders and other stakeholders as well as
a liaison for whistleblowing.
Independent Non-Executive Directors (“INEDs”)
The INEDs are responsible for providing insights,
unbiased and independent views, advice and
judgement to the Board and to ensure effective checks
and balances on the Board. The INEDs are essential for
protecting the interest of shareholders, in particular
minority shareholders, and can make significant
contributions to the Company’s decision making by
bringing in the quality of detached impartiality.
Code of Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblowing Policy
The Company has put in place a Code of Conduct and
Ethics (“CoCE”) to ensure transparent and ethical conduct
that permeates throughout the Group.
With the implementation of Section 17A Malaysia Anti-
Corruption Commission Act coming into force in June 2020,
the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
was established and updated to manage risk in relation
to fraud, bribery and corruption practices. Additionally,
Whistleblowing Policy was revised to provide avenues for
employees and other stakeholders to disclose concerns
relating to violations or improper conduct or wrongdoings
or non-compliance with legal and regulations requirements
within the Group.
The revised CoCE, Whistleblowing Policy and ABC Policy are
available at the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
The Company has adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy to
ensure a formal and transparent process for the appointment
and re-election of Directors and the appointment of Key Senior
Management of the Company. The execution is delegated
to the Nominating Committee, which will be reviewed and
approved by the Board. The Board reviews the Fit and Proper
Policy periodically, which is available on the Company’s
website at www.kawanfood.com.
79 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Pursuant to Practice 5.3 of the MCCG, the tenure of an Independent Director
does not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years. Upon completion of nine
(9) years, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board as a
Non-Independent Director.
However, the retention of Independent Directors after serving a cumulative term
of nine (9) years shall be subjected to annual assessment by the NC, regarding
the independence and contributions; and annual shareholders’ approval through
two-tier voting process in a general meeting, where the Board provides valid
justification on the recommendation in the explanatory notes to the resolution
in the notice of a general meeting. Notwithstanding the above, the tenure of
Independent Director should not exceed a cumulative term of twelve (12) years in
compliance with the MMLR of Bursa Securities.
As to-date, the tenure of all Independent Directors is less than nine (9) years
of service. The Board is of the view that the independence of the Independent
Directors should not be determined solely or arbitrarily by their tenure of
service. The Board believes that continued contribution will provide stability and
benefits to the Board and the Company as a whole, especially their invaluable
knowledge of the Group and its operations gained through the years. The
calibre, qualification, experience and personal qualities, particularly of the
Director’s integrity and objectivity in discharging his responsibilities in the best
interest of the Company should be the predominant factors to determine the
ability of a Director to serve effectively as an Independent Director.
The Board is also confident that the Independent Directors themselves, after
having provided all the relevant confirmations on their independence, will be
able to determine if they can continue to bring independent and objective
judgement during Board deliberations and decision making.
Diversity
The Board acknowledges the importance of having diversity of Board,
Management and employees in terms of skills, expertise, gender, age and
ethnicity. The Company has put in place a Diversity Policy as the Company’s
commitment to diversity at all levels.
During the financial year under review, there were no changes to Company’s Board
composition. Currently, the Board comprises two (2) female Non-Independent
Executive Directors which accounts for 25% representation of women on the Board.
The Board supports the country’s aspirational target of 30% representation of
women directors in line with Practice 5.9 of MCCG 2021 and will consider diverse
range of candidates including female representation in future recruitment and
selection processes.
Board Composition
As at 31 December 2022, the Board
comprises eight (8) Directors:
The Board composition complied with
paragraph 15.02 of the MMLR of Bursa
Securities, which requires at least two (2)
Directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board,
whichever is the higher, are independent.
The NC reviewed the Board and Board
Committees composition in FY2022 on
an annual basis. The composition of
the Board comprises an appropriate
balance of representation from
relevant key areas that supports the
sustainability efforts in the business
taking into consideration the complexity
and nature of the Group’s businesses.
Board Independence
The Board recognises that
independence and objective
judgement are crucial and imperative
in decision-making process. The INEDs
play a significant role in providing an
unbiased and independent view, advice
and judgement taking into account
the interest of relevant stakeholders
including minority shareholders of the
Group.
Board Evaluation
The Board through its NC also undertakes an annual review of performance and
effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees as well as the contribution
of each individual Directors to the Board and Board Committees.
The Board Evaluation Report indicated that the Board, Board Committees and
individual Directors continue to be highly effective in providing oversight of the
Company and its governance.
Following the FY2022 Board evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the SINED and
INEDs are independent to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Executive Chairman
Number of Directors: 1 (one)
ED
Number of Directors: 3 (three)
SINED
Number of Directors: 1 (one)
INED
Number of Directors: 2 (two)
NINED
Number of Directors: 1 (one)
Of the eight (8) Directors
2 (two) Women
Details of the Directors can be found on
pages 66 to 71 of this annual report.
The Diversity Policy is available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
80
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Time Commitment
The Board meets once
quarterly with additional
meetings being convened
whenever necessary,
to discharge their
responsibilities effectively.
The Senior Management are
also invited to meetings for
presentation, if required.
The attendance of the
Directors at Board and its
Committee meetings for
FY2022 are shown in the
table on the right.
Board Training and Development
The Board acknowledges the importance of continuous education and training programmes for Directors to discharge
its responsibilities effectively and to be apprised of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such
regulatory requirements will have on the Group. The Company Secretaries circulate and brief the relevant guidelines on
statutory and regulatory requirements from time to time and for the Board’s reference.
All Directors attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as required by the MMLR of Bursa Securities.
The Directors of the Company had attended the following training programmes, workshops, briefing and seminars
during FY2022:
Directors Courses/Seminar/Conference
Gan Thiam Chai • Webinar on Sustainability Awareness to Board of Directors
Gan Thiam Hock • Webinar on Sustainability Awareness to Board of Directors
Kwan Sok Kay • Webinar on Sustainability Awareness to Board of Directors
Gan Ka Bien • Sustainability & International Trade for Export-Oriented Companies
• Sustainable Brands Kuala Lumpur 2022 conference
• GRI Standards Certified Training 13 - 15 September 2022
• Certified Sustainability Reporting Specialist
Dr. Nik Ismail
Bin Nik Daud
• IUFoST Roundtable on Sustainable and Alternative Edible Protein Sources by International Union of
Food Science and Technology
• Building Trust Along the Food Supply Chain and As a Guest Speaker by UTAR
• AXA estment Managers - Impact Investing Across Listed Markets
Abdul Razak
Bin Shakor
• Risk Management Awareness Programme by FWD Takaful Sdn. Bhd.
• Performance Management Programme Balance Score Card Implementation by Sentinel
Insurance Brokers Sdn. Bhd.
• Risk Management Awareness Programme by Cradle Fund Sdn. Bhd.
• Turkiye Rendevouz 2022 by Middle East Insurance Review / Huntington Group
• Singapore International Reinsurance Conference (SIRC)
Member(s) Board AC NC RC
Gan Thiam Chai
Executive Chairman
6/6
Gan Thiam Hock
Executive Director
6/6
Kwan Sok Kay
Executive Director
6/6
Gan Ka Bien
Executive Director
6/6
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 4/4 5/5
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 4/4 5/5
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 4/4 5/5
81 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Directors Courses/Seminar/Conference
Lim Hun Soon @
David Lim
• Exercising Sustainability Governance and Oversight – What is next for Press Metal
• The Token Economy, Cryptocurrencies and CBDCs by Prof Arturo Bris of IMD
• JUST Series (JC3 Upskilling Sustainability Training) Series - FY2022 - Implementation of TCFD
• JUST Series (JC3 Upskilling Sustainability Training) Series - FY2022 - Implementation of TCFD
• No Rules Rules: Building A Corporate Culture That Breeds Innovation & Flexibility
• FIDE FORUM - CGM Conversations with Chairmen: A Standing Item in Board Agendas
• Leading Through Banking Transformation by Professor Misiek Piskorski of IMD
• Sanctions and Financial Crime Prevention by Mr Ross Daniel Savage
• ESG Frameworks: Understanding the Alphabet Soup by Mr Andrew Chan of PwC Malaysia
• Understanding Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) by PwC Malaysia
Eugene
Hon Kah Weng
• BNM FIDE dialogue on climate risk management and scenario analysis - FIDE BNM
• Treasury Business and Interest Rate Sensitivity By ABB
• BNM World Bank Report Launch - Exploring Nature-Related Financial Risks in Malaysia-World Bank
Group & BNM
• Steward Leadership for Sustainability - Asia Business School
• AFFIN BANK GROUP DIRECTORS’ TRAINING - Exposure Draft on Climate Risk Management and
Scenario Analysis
• FIDE Forum Leadership Perspective on Board Effectiveness in Conjunction with BEE Launch
• ICDM - Chair Masterclass
• The Emerging Trends, Threats and Risks to The Financial Services Industry - FIDE Forum
• AOB Conversation with Audit Committee – Securities Commission
82
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Members: Roles:
• Oversee the Board appointment process including the
nomination and selection of Directors and key management of
Kawan.
• Recommend new Directors’ nomination to the Board and key
management of Kawan.
• Review Board training programmes and making
recommendations thereof.
• Assess the performance and effectiveness of individual
Directors, Board and Board Committees, which includes
assessing the fit and properness of Directors who are due
for retirement by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting ("AGM").
• Assess and review the Board composition (ie. size, experience,
diversity etc) and organisation structure of Kawan.
• Oversee the succession planning for the Board and key
management of Kawan.
EUGENE HON KAH WENG
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Chairman
01
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
02
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
03
NC
Focus Area Succession Planning
for Management
Assessment of
Board effectiveness
NC Activities in FY2022
• Reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees as well as contribution of each
individual Directors to the Board and Board Committees in FY2022.
• Discussed and review Management Succession Planning.
• Reviewed the composition of the Board in meeting necessary skills, experience and competency of the Board.
• Recommended for the Board’s approval the appointment of Mr Andy Yeap Chee Keong as COO of the
Company.
• Reviewed and assessed the term of office and performance of the AC and each of its members.
• Assessed Directors’ training needs to receive suitable orientation and training programmes.
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the adoption of the Fit and Proper Policy.
• Reviewed and recommended the revised TOR of NC to be in line with the MCCG 2021 and MMLR of Bursa
Securities.
• Review the Directors’ retirement by rotation at the Eighteenth (“18th”) AGM of the Company held on 9 June 2022.
• Review the Directors’ retirement by rotation at the Nineteenth (“19th”) AGM of the Company scheduled to be
held on 21 June 2023.
83 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
RC
Focus Area Compensation and
Reward Framework
Balance
Scorecard
RC Activities in FY2022
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the Directors fees and benefits payable (including
allowances) and recommended to the shareholders for approval at the AGM;
• Considered and recommended to the Board’s approval the following matters:
(a)		 Salary adjustment and Bonus for EDs;
(b)		 Performance evaluation and bonus allocation of GCEO; and
(c)		 Remuneration package of COO.
• Deliberated on revised Employee Grading Matrix of KFM;
• Reviewed and recommended the revised TOR of RC to be in line with the MCCG 2021 and MMLR of Bursa
Securities;
• Reviewed and deliberated on the Balance Scorecard and Key Performance Indicators for the EDs, GCEO and the
key management; and
• Reviewed the performance of GCEO and Financial Controller.
Members:
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Chairman
01
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
02
EUGENE HON KAH WENG
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
03
Roles:
• Assess, review and recommend to the Board the remuneration
packages of individual Directors, GCEO and key Senior
Management.
• Review and approve performance measures for incentive plans
recommended by the Management.
• Assess the performance and recommend to the Board for
approval the total remuneration packages of GCEO, EDs, Non-
Executive Directors (“NEDs”) and key Senior Management.
Remuneration Packages
The remuneration packages for the EDs and key Senior
Management comprises basic salary, benefits in kind, bonus and
allowances which reflects their roles and performance for the
year. The NED’s remuneration package comprises Directors’ fees,
benefits in kind and meeting allowances which reflect individual’s
role and responsibilities. The Board remuneration is reviewed by
benchmarking against peer companies.
The Chairman of the AC, RC and NC receives higher fees in respect
of their service as a chairman of the respective committee. The
Directors will receive an additional fee if they are members of the
Board Committees. The fees for Directors are determined by the
Board with approval from shareholders at AGM.
The interested Directors abstained from deliberation and voting on
their own remuneration at the Board meetings.
84
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE B:
EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND
RISK MANAGEMENT
-
Audit Committee ("AC")
The AC of the Company comprises one (1) SINED and two (2) INEDs.
Collectively, the AC members are financially literate, possess
commercial expertise skills and experience to enable them to
discharge their duties and responsibilities pursuant to the AC’s TOR.
Based on the recommendation of MCCG, the AC requires a former
key audit partner to observe a cooling-off period of at least three
(3) years before being appointed as a member of the AC.
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory and fiduciary
responsibilities on financial reporting, compliance with applicable
financial reporting standards and other legal requirements, internal
audit, external audit functions and risk management of the Group.
On an annual basis, the AC reviews and evaluates the suitability,
objectivity and independence of the External Auditors taking into
consideration the following:
Sound Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in maintaining an effective risk management and internal control
system to safeguard stakeholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. The AC assists the Board in the oversight of proper
implementation of risk management and control system.
The Group has established a robust risk management framework as an approach to identify, assess, report and monitor
risks facing the Group. Kawan maintains a risk register comprises Group wide risks specific to the business activities was
reviewed and updated every quarter.
The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to a professional service firm which is independent of the activities
and operations of the Group. The outsourced Internal Auditors reports directly to the AC. The Internal Audit function is
primarily responsible in assessing and improving the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control systems and
governance processes within the Group.
Technical
competencies
01
Independence
and Objectivity
02
Audit Scope
and Planning
03
Adequacy of
Technical Support
04
Time
Commitment
05
Audit and
Non-Audit Fees
06
The details on the roles of the AC are set out in the AC report on
pages 86 to 87 of this annual report.
The statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out on pages 89 to 95 of this annual report provides a detailed
description of the state of risk management and internal controls.
85 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE C:
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE
REPORTING AND
MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
-
Communications with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective communication between the
Company, investors, shareholders, stakeholders and public at large to provide
timely, accurate, and equal access to material information on the Group’s
performance and operations.
Kawan engages with its stakeholders by way of announcements via Bursa
Securities and press releases. All financial results, notice of dividend and ad-
hoc announcements are available on the Bursa Securities’ website. Investor
relation section which is available on the Company’s corporate website at
www.kawanfood.com contains information on Kawan such as corporate profile,
annual reports, Board of Directors, AGM etc for both existing and potential
shareholders. The stakeholders can reach out to Kawan should they require
further information or assistance.
Kawan also organised meetings with analysts, institutional fund managers,
shareholders and potential investors. Our discussion generally involves financial
and business performance, outlook and strategic direction of the Group.
General Meetings
The 18th AGM of the Company was conducted virtually through live streaming and
online remote participation by using Remote Participation and Voting Facilities
(“RPV”), which is in compliance with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016.
The virtual AGM provides an avenue for our shareholders to seek clarification
and insights into the operations and financial performance of the Group. The
Chairman took the chair of the AGM and the GCEO gave a presentation to the
shareholders covering the Group’s business and financial highlights for FY2021
and market outlook.
During the Question-and-Answer session of the AGM, its shareholders were invited to post their questions to the Board.
The Chairman, AC Chairman and GCEO were present to answer shareholders’ queries and concerns. Company’s External
Auditors and the Company Secretary participated remotely at the meeting.
The notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions together with the Annual Report was sent to shareholders at least twenty-
one (21) days before the date of the meeting to enable shareholders to go through the annual report and papers supporting
the resolutions proposed, which is in line with Section 316(2) of Companies Act 2016 and paragraph 7.15 of MMLR of Bursa
Securities. Notice of AGM was circulated in a nationally circulated newspaper together with an announcement on the
Bursa Securities’ website. This allowed shareholders to have immediate access to the notice of AGM and made necessary
preparations for the AGM.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 17 April 2023.
86
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Audit Committee Report
Composition
The Audit Committee (“AC”)
comprises three (3) members, all
of whom are independent Non-
Executive Directors (“INED”):
All the INED satisfy the
independence test under the Main
Market Listing Requirement (“MMLR”)
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
The AC’s composition meets the
MMLR which requires that at least
one member of the AC must fulfil
the financial expertise requisite
of paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of Bursa
Securities MMLR. The AC Chairman
and a member of AC are members
of the MIA and the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (MICPA).
* Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA).
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM*
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Chairman
01
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
02
EUGENE HON KAH WENG*
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Membership: Member
03
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The role, scope and responsibilities of the AC are set out in its terms of reference
which are accessible on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
MEETINGS
The AC conducted five (5) meetings during the financial year ended 31 December
2022 (“FY2022”), details of which are set out as follows:
Name No. of Meetings Attended
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 5/5
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud 5/5
Eugene Hon Kah Weng 5/5
The Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”), Company Secretaries, Financial
Controller, Corporate Affairs Manager and other Management were invited to attend
the meetings to present their reports and provide appropriate information as well
as clarification to relevant items on the agenda. The internal auditors were invited
to present and highlight specific issues arising from audit findings from the internal
audit reports submitted to the AC during the AC meetings. The external auditors also
attended the AC meeting to present their annual audit plan, key audit matters and
other matters deemed relevant.
The AC Chairman reported to the Board activities and significant matters discussed
at each AC meeting. Deliberations during the AC meetings were recorded. Minutes
of the AC meetings were tabled for confirmation at the following AC meeting and
subsequently tabled to the Board for notation.
ACTIVITIES IN FY2022
Financial Reporting
• Reviewed quarterly unaudited financial results and the draft announcements to
Bursa Securities, before recommending them for Board’s approval; and
• Reviewed the audited financial statements of the Group to reflect the true and
fair view of the business results and financial position of the Group and that the
financial statements were prepared in compliance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standard (MFRS) prior to the approval by the Board.
External Audit
• Reviewed and approved the scope of work and audit plan for FY2022;
• Reviewed and discussed the audited financial statements and key audit matters;
• Had two (2) meetings with the external auditors without the presence of the
Management to discuss relevant issues and concerns arising from the audits;
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board, the re-appointment of external
auditors, taking into consideration their competencies, commitments,
independence and objectivity; and
• Assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and
recommended to the Board the audit and non-audit fees payable to external
auditors.
87 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Audit Committee Report
Internal Audit (“IA”)
• Reviewed and report to the AC on the IA plans as to their
consistency with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework,
specifically focus on the high risks areas identified together
with the results of assessments;
• Reviewed internal audit report on a quarterly basis;
• Reviewed the internal control issues identified by internal
auditors, management’s response to audit recommendations
and the implementation of the action plans;
• Monitored the implementation of corrective actions by
Management;
• Had private sessions with the IA without the presence of
Management to discuss relevant issues and concerns arising
from the audits;
• Reviewed effectiveness of the IA through evaluation of
performance, adequacy of resources and competencies of
the internal auditors; and
• Reviewed the overall performance of the IA, including
assessment of their independence, technical competency and
sufficiency of its manpower and budget to carry out its work.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed Kawan’s top risk profiles and deliberated on the
significant threats and opportunities on a quarterly basis;
• Reviewed quarterly risk management reports on risk
management activities, exposure and mitigating actions;
• Reviewed, tracked and monitored, on an ongoing basis,
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk
management systems; and
• Reviewed the Business Continuity Management Manual
and oversaw the effectiveness of the programme via
implementation of simulation.
Related Party Transactions (RPTs)
• Reviewed all RPTs on quarterly basis to ensure RPTs were carried
out on an arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms,
consistent with the Company and Group’s usual business
practices and policies, which are not more favourable than
those generally available to the third parties/public and are
not to the detriment of the minority shareholders;
• Reviewed and deliberated on RPTs, recurring and potential
conflict of interest that may arise; and
• Reviewed and recommended for Board’s approval the
Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed renewal of
shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions
of revenue or trading nature.
Annual Report
• Reviewed and recommended the following for the Board’s
approval:
a) Audited financial statement;
b) Management Discussion and Analysis;
c) Sustainability Statement;
d) Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control;
e) Corporate Governance Overview Statement; and
f) Corporate Governance Report.
Other Matters
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the
Term of Reference of AC to align with Malaysian Code on
Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG 2021”) and the MMLR
of Bursa Securities;
• Reviewed the Group’s updates on key governance matters
and observations in regards of the provisions set out in the
MCCG 2021 pursuant to the MMLR of Bursa Securities;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
the Statement to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own
ordinary shares; and
• Reviewed the proposed dividend payout taking into
consideration the cash flow requirements before
recommending for Board’s approval.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The IA function of Kawan is outsourced to Tricor Axcelasia Sdn
Bhd to provide independent and objective assurance on the
adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of internal controls.
The IA engagements for the FY2022 were led by Ms Josephine
Lim (“Ms. Josephine”) who has 20 years of experience in
providing IPO advisory, risk management, compliance, UK
ABC, FCPA, internal auditing, business process improvement,
US Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, and forensic investigation
advisory services. Ms. Josephine is a Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) and holds a Certification in Control Self – Assessment
(CCSA) issued by the Institute Internal Auditor.
IA engagements were carried out by four (4) to five (5) staff.
The internal audit staff who performed the internal audit
reviews have professional qualifications and/or university
degree. Some of the internal audit staff are members of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. All the internal audit
staff were free from any relationships or conflict of interest,
which could impair their objectivity and independence.
In accordance with the annual internal audit plan approved by
the AC, the IA performed audit engagements on supply chain
and procurement management, finance management, sales
and marketing management, new product development, halal
management, health, safety and environment, and review
on plant and production operation, recurrent related party
transaction, and review of Netsuite ERP system within the Group.
The IA engagements were carried out using a risk-based
approach and guidance from the International Professional
Practice Framework. The internal audit findings and the
implementation progress of previous auditable processes
action plan were presented and reviewed by the AC.
The total costs incurred for outsourcing the IA function of
Kawan for the FY2022 was RM 85,574.
Further details of the internal audit functions can be
found on pages 89 to 95 of this Annual Report under the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control.
88
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Additional Compliance Information
Pursuant to the Listing
Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major
shareholders’ interest which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year ended or which were entered into
since the end of the previous financial year (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) except
as disclosed below and in Notes 38 to the financial statements under “Related Parties” on pages 169 to 170 of this Annual
Report.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the financial year ended 31 December 2022, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the
Group and the Company to the external auditors are as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Audit services rendered 301,000 55,000
Non-audit services rendered 8,000 8,000
Total 309,000 63,000
Utilisation of Proceeds
There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31
December 2022.
Recurrent Related Party Transactions of Revenue Or Trading Nature
At the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on Thursday, 9 June 2022, the Company obtained a shareholders’
mandate to allow the Group to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature. The
disclosure of the recurrent related party transactions conducted during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 is
as stated in Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023.
89 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Board Responsibilities
The Board acknowledges its commitment
on its overall responsibility of the Group’s
system of risk management and internal
control. The Board remains committed to put
in place an ongoing process for reviewing its
adequacy and integrity in order to safeguard
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee
(“AC”) which have been delegated with
primary oversight on the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems.
The adequacy and effectiveness of internal
controls were reviewed by the AC in relation
to the audits conducted by Internal Audit
(“IA”) during the year.
The Board recognises that the systems are
designed to manage rather than eliminate
risks of failure to achieve its objectives
and strategies. Therefore, the systems can
only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement
or loss.
The Board does not oversee the risk
management and internal control systems of
jointly controlled company as the Board does
not have direct control over its operation.
However, the Group’s interest in this entity is
served through its representation on Board
of the jointly controlled company.
Risk Culture
The risk culture is driven from the top and strengthened by the middle
Management which serves as the foundation upon which a robust risk
management framework is built.
Risk management are continuously communicated and reinforced
throughout the Group to cultivate its identification, assessment and
mitigation of risks. The Group has instilled a culture where the Board,
Management and the employees are committed to strengthening
processes and controls in managing business activities.
The Board of Directors (“The Board”) is pleased to provide the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control of Kawan Food Berhad (“the Company” or
“Kawan”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) which outlines the nature and scope of
its risk management and internal control of the Group for the financial year ended
31 December 2022. This statement has been prepared pursuant to paragraph 15.26
(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”)
and by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for
Directors of Listed Issuers and Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).
90
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Risk Management Process
The risk management process
provides a structured approach to
ensure that there is an on-going
process to identifying, prioritizing and
managing business risks exposure.
The Group’s processes for assessing
and managing risks are as follows:
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
RMU
Responsible for
risk management
on a day to day
basis by taking
appropriate
actions through
effective controls.
RMWC
Provide oversight and advice
necessary to support the first
line of defence in identifying,
managing and monitoring risk
including policies, procedures
and training.
Internal and External
Food Auditors
Provide independent
assurance to the AC
and Board on the
effectiveness of the
risk management
framework.
Internal and external
food auditors
undertake audits
covering aspects
of both the first
and second lines of
defence.
Risk Management
(“RM”) Framework
AC
Its risk and control oversight responsibilities has been delegated
by the Board to the AC. The AC monitors the Group’s RM and oversees
the effectiveness of the processes. The AC Chairman updates the Board
of their work and key deliberations relating to RM.
Risk Management Unit (“RMU”)
RMU perform risk assessments to identify, evaluate and manage risks.
Risk Management Working Committee (“RMWC”)
The RMWC supports the AC in the RM process through ongoing monitoring
and analysis and evaluation of the risk environment and controls in place
to manage those risks. The RMWC is chaired by CEO and comprises of head
of departments. The RMWC reviews the Group register, provides quarterly
updates on new risks and the changes to the key risk. The Risk Officer reports
significant findings to the AC on a quarterly basis.
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for the governance of
risk management and internal control systems.
1st Line
of Defence
2nd Line
of Defence
3rd Line
of Defence
RMWC:
- Implement Board’s approved
framework, policies and
procedures;
- Maintain risk registers; and
- Undertakes regular review of
risk.
Identify various risk
including new risks and
changes affecting existing
risks
01
Assess risks
Assess likelihood and
impact of these risks using
risk matrix
02
Risk evaluation
Determine the significance
and risk level of these risks –
high, significant, moderate
and low
03
Decide risks responses
– how to manage risks
04
Monitor
effectiveness and reports to
AC on a quarterly basis
06
Implement risk
management plans
05
91 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Managing risks within the Group involves an on-going assessment process to identify, evaluate and manage existing
risks as well as new risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date
of approval of this statement.
Kawan maintains a risk register. The risk register is reviewed and updated every quarter by RMWC. The Risk Officer then
provides the AC with the Group Risk Management Reports at its scheduled meetings.
The AC deliberated on the material risks identified on a quarterly basis and the AC Chairman subsequently reported
updates to the Board with respect to risk management and mitigation procedures.
Activities in FY2022
• Four AC (4) meetings were held in 2022 to discuss the Group risk agenda.
• The following Table 1.0 highlights the key focus areas of their deliberations in FY2022:
RISING RAW MATERIAL COSTS AND INFLATION (High)
Description of its Implication Mitigation Measures
Supply chain disruption caused by
political instabilities, civil unrest
and other remained challenging
that continue to give rise to higher
operational costs leading to rising
inflation.
• maintain supply chain resilience and minimise business disruption
• Closely monitoring and track market geo-political developments
• Maintained strong relationship with suppliers and work closely with the
suppliers to monitor the situations to receive necessary supplies and materials
• Diversification of suppliers and alternative sources of materials
• Leveraging advanced technologies such as data analytics to provide valuable
insights into supply chain performance and potential disruptions
• Ensure that our supply chains remained strong without significant impact to
ongoing orders
HEIGHTENED ESG FOCUS (High)
Description of its Implication Mitigation Measures
With the growing focus among
stakeholders on Environmental, Social
and Governance (“ESG”) matters such
as human rights, social equality and
climate change, companies flagged
for ESG underperformance risk the
loss of stakeholders’ confidence.
• Kawan has rolled out our sustainability roadmap outlining our
sustainability strategy for the period 2022 – 2030
• The Executive Director of Marketing & Sustainability leads the execution of
this sustainability strategies through various sustainability initiatives under
our sustainability framework
POST PANDEMIC (High)
Description of its Implication Mitigation Measures
Macro uncertainty driven by post
Covid 19 pandemic, political crisis,
forex fluctuations and inflation.
Economy recovery is expected in 2022
as pandemic subsides with growth
on foodservice driven by changing
lifestyles. However, the Company faces
aggressive expansion by competitors
and intense price competition as
consumer purchasing power reduced.
• Remained vigilant in monitoring our cash flow and financial position for
continued stability and growth
• Focused on continued performance growth on Revenue and Profit Before Tax
and capturing new growth from new products and geographical expansion.
• Continue to focus on innovation while simultaneously transforming our
internal processes and systems for better synergies within the organisation
• Continue to focus on digitalisation 4.0 to further promote efficiency and
resiliency of our technological capabilities.
• Focus on capturing market share by expanding coverage and product
portfolio using data analytics
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
92
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Activities in FY2022
(continued)
The other key activities
undertaken by the AC in FY2022
include:
Monitored impact
of post pandemic
factors on business
continuity, supply
chain, impact on
growth, productivity,
operations, service
delivery and financial
resilience;
Reviewed top risks in
terms of risk trend,
the likelihood of their
occurrence, potential
impact and progress
of mitigation action;
Continuously
monitored the
effectiveness of the
measures taken by
the Group;
Reviewed key
updates in relation to
business continuity
were provided by
Management;
Reviewed key
strategic, financial,
regulatory, operational
risk and actions based
on the risk register
external assessments
and internal audit
findings.
MATERIAL RISKS
Table 2.0 below presents a summary of the Group’s material risks and the
mitigating measures for the FY2022.
01
02
03
04
05
STRATEGIC RISK (Strategic)
Description Mitigation
Risk associated with long term
strategic objectives of the business,
potential variability of business returns
arising as a result of the Company’s
strategy and its strategic position with
respect to competitors, customers,
reputation, legal or regulatory change
or political change.
• Monitor market trends, competition
and geopolitical risks.
• Monitor and track performance
against approved targets
OPERATIONAL COSTS (Operational)
Description Mitigation
• Supply chain disruptions and
volatile energy prices due to
prolonged Russia-Ukraine conflict
and escalating tensions in other
regions.
• Increased raw material costs
such as flour, margarine and
packaging materials may impact
our operational costs such as raw
material costs, labour costs etc.
• Monitor supply availability
according to current and future
needs
• Explore alternative vendors to
reduce reliance on sole supplier
• Engage with key vendors closely to
minimise supply disruptions
• Continuous improvement on
efficient process flows and cost
reduction.
PEOPLE RISK (Human Capital)
Description Mitigation
The success and future growth of
the Group depends on the ability of
attracting and retaining competent
employees to drive our long-term
aspirations. Having talents with
required skills, knowledge and
expertise is important for Kawan to
expand its business.
• Enhance talent management and
succession planning initiatives.
• Reviewed compensations and
benefits.
• Proactive employee engagement
• Corporate Social Responsibility
initiatives
SUSTAINABILITY RISK (Strategic)
Description Mitigation
Stakeholders are now increasingly
expecting companies to embed
sustainability into business that may
affect our business performance,
reputation and long-term growth.
• A Sustainability Strategic Framework
was developed to execute its UNSDG
aspirations and targets.
• The Sustainability Working
Committee will deliberate, monitor
and drive our sustainability across
the Company.
93 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
INTERNAL AUDIT
Internal Audit function of the Group was carried out by an outsourced
professional consulting firm. The Group’s Internal Audit function (“GIA”)
reports independently to the AC. The principal responsibility of GIA is to
provide independent review on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness
of risk management, control and governance. The selection of the areas to
be audited is based on an annual audit plan that is approved by the AC. The
annual audit plan is developed based on risk assessments of Kawan Group.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key features of the Group’s internal control system are
as follows:
The AC and Board
The Board has delegated its authority in overseeing the
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems to the AC. The
AC has oversight of the independence, scope of work and
resources of the Internal Audit. The AC meets quarterly to
review audit and investigations reports prepared by IA. The
effectiveness of the internal control system is monitored
and evaluated by the AC on an ongoing basis.
Further details on AC activities can be found on AC report.
Organisation Structure & Authorisation Procedures
The Group has a formal organisation structure with clearly
defined accountabilities, reporting lines and authority in
order to align to its business and operational needs. The Limit
of Authority clearly outlines the Board and Management’s
limits and approval authorities across various key processes.
The delegation of authorities is duly approved by the Board
and subject to review and update to reflect business and
operational changes and needs.
During the financial year, the GIA have conducted reviews which
involved assessing the adequacy of controls over the following:
• Supply Chain and Procurement Management;
• Finance Management;
• Sales and Marketing Management;
• Human Resource Management;
• Health, Safety and Environment;
• Review on Plant and Production Operation;
• Recurrent Related Party Transaction;
• Review of Netsuite ERP system.
Upon completion of the audit assignment, the GIA
provides an audit report which covers the scope of
audit work performed, evaluation of the internal control
systems with detailed audit observations, management
responses and timeline to implement the GIA’s
recommendations. All significant and material findings
by the internal auditors are reported to the AC for review
and deliberation. The AC assessed the overall adequacy
and effectiveness of the internal control systems and
reports the deliberations and material findings to the
Board of Directors.
94
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Policy (“ABAC”)
Kawan Group is committed to conduct
business in an honest and ethical
manner which has a zero-tolerance
approach against bribery and
corruption.
The Kawan Group’s ABAC sets out
principles and clear procedures for all
donations, sponsorships, hospitality
and gifting activities of the Group.
The ABAC also provide guidance to
all employees on how to deal with
improper solicitation, bribery and
other corrupt activities.
This policy applies to all stakeholders
and employees of Kawan and the
Group. All employees are required
to declare that they have read,
understood and will abide by the Policy.
Ongoing training on ABAC sessions
are carried out to raise awareness on
corporate liability. The Group’s ABAC
was reviewed and updated to reflect
the necessary updates to comply with
Section 17A of MACC (Amendment)
Act 2018.
People Development
A succession planning has been
established to strengthen the Group’s
talent and succession. The Group’s
has introduced Learning Management
System (LMS) namely Peopleaps to
provide access to online learning
and development programmes
and employees engagement. The
Group will continue to develop
its human capital by improving
talent management, learning and
development, organisation design
and remuneration and performance
management.
Information and Communication
The Group has in place effective
communication of critical information
channels across the Group. Matters that
require Board and senior management’s
attention are highlighted for review,
deliberation and decision making on a
timely basis.
Annual Budget and Financial Projections
The Group’s annual budget is deliberated and approved by the Board on
an annual basis. Actual performances are reviewed against the approved
budget with explanations of major variances and presented to the Board.
Group Policies and Procedures
The Group has put in place documented policies and procedures which
covers a wide range of areas including food safety, security, product quality
assurance, human resource and purchasing to provide guidance for the
employees. These policies are subject to review as and when required to
ensure its relevance to the Group’s operations and continue to support the
Group’s business activities as it continues to grow.
Human Resource Policies and Procedures
The HR Policies and Procedures of the Group incorporates policies and
guidelines on human resource management in the Group. These policies and
procedures are reviewed as and when the need arises and are communicated
to employees via email.
Whistleblowing Policy
Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”) is important to provide employees with
accessible channels to raise concerns or disclose information regarding
suspected or known malpractices, misconducts or wrongdoings within the
Group without fear of any form of victimisation, harassment, retribution or
retaliation.
The policy was updated in line with the MMLR and in compliance with Section
17A of MACC (Amendment) Act 2018. The Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director has oversight over the access to the whistleblowing cases and the
whistleblowing processes. The Whistleblowing Policy is available on the
Group’s website.
95 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Monitoring and Review
Monthly management reports comprising key financial results
and operational performance are reviewed and monitored
by the management team. Quarterly financial statements
are presented to the Board for their review, consideration and
approval.
Business Continuity Management (“BCM”)
BCM programme is part of our commitment in enhancing
business resilience throughout our Group. We have put in
place a BCM programme which provides a systematic
approach and consistent practices to build organisational
resilience with adequate capability mechanism to ensure
continuation of business and operation. Kawan has also
established Crisis Management Framework to provide
guidance on establishing a comprehensive approach in
managing crisis. These plans will be reviewed and tested
accordingly to ensure effectiveness and relevant to the
current business environment.
External Certifications
The Group continues to adopt relevant safety, quality,
HALAL and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment
Series certification systems.
All of our manufacturing sites are subject to independent
third-party audits under BRCGS Global Food Safety Standard.
The Company has been awarded MS1480: 2019 HACCP food
safety certification and Veterinary Health Mark (VHM) that
supports the Group on the issuance of Health Certificate
for our exports.
Our Company was also awarded the HALAL “WhiteList”
status by Malaysian Islamic Development Department
(JAKIM) and Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) for
HALAL fast track application which allows JAKIM and JAIS
to expedite the issuance of HALAL certificate within three
(3) working days. The comprehensive Halal Assurance
System has been established and the Group will be
subject to ad-hoc audits from time to time to ensure
compliance with the systems.
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY
THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad’s MMLR, the External Auditors have
reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control for inclusion in the FY2022 Annual Report.
Their review was performed in accordance with Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide 3: Guidance for Auditors
on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control included in the Annual
Report issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
Based on their review, nothing has come to their attention
that causes them to believe that this statement is not
prepared, in all material respect, in accordance with
the disclosures required by paragraph 41 and 42 of the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control:
Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, or is factually
inaccurate.
CONCLUSION
The Group Chief Executive Officer and Financial Controller have
provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk management
and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively,
in all material aspects.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control systems are satisfactory and have not
resulted in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in the
Group’s annual report. Nevertheless, the Board shall continue to take the appropriate and necessary measures
to continuously improve the Group’s risk management and internal control system to meet the Group’s
corporate objectives.
This statement was approved by the Board on 17 April 2023.
96
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
SEC 04: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97
Statement on Directors’ Responsibility
Directors’ Report
Statements of Financial Position
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Statement of Changes in Equity
Statements of Cash Flow
Notes to the Financial Statements
Statement by Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
SEC 05: OTHER INFORMATION 176
List of Properties
Analysis on Shareholdings
Notice of 19th Annual General Meeting
Administrative Details
Proxy Form
97 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statement on Directors’ Responsibility
The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad to issue a statement explaining the Board’s responsibility in preparing the annual financial statements.
In preparing the annual financial statements of the Company and the Group, the Directors are collectively responsible
to ensure that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”) so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company
at the end of the financial year and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended on that date.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2022, the Directors have:
i) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
iii) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
iv) ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departure and explained in the
financial statements.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 17 April 2023.
98
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Directors’ Report
The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries are as
stated in Note 9 to the financial statements.
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the financial year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 38,498,719 14,834,778
Non-controlling interests (20,981) -
38,477,738 14,834,778
In the opinion of the directors, the financial results of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDEND
The amount of dividend paid by the Company since the end of previous financial year were as follows:
In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022, the Company declared and paid an interim single tier dividend of
3.0 sen per ordinary share totalling RM10,768,982 on 30 March 2022.
The directors do not recommend any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
In respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2023, the Company declared and paid an interim single tier dividend of
3.6 sen per ordinary share totalling RM13,021,188 on 31 March 2023.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company was increased from RM179,759,880 to
RM184,889,706 by way of issuance of 3,062,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Option
Scheme at an exercise price of RM1.540 and RM1.550 per ordinary share.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares
of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
The Company did not issue any new debentures during the financial year.
99 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart from the
issue of options pursuant to the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment of
the ESOS of not more than 15% of the issued share capital of the Company to eligible employees of the Group and of the
Company.
The salient features of the ESOS are, inter alia, as follows:
(i) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years commencing from the effective date on or before the expiry
thereof, the Board of Directors shall have the sole and absolute discretion upon recommendation of the ESOS
Committee, without the Company’s shareholders’ approval in a general meeting, to extend in writing the tenure of the
ESOS for another five (5) years, or such shorter period as it deems fit immediately from the expiry of the first five (5)
years, the ESOS shall not in aggregate exceed ten (10) years from the effective date of 2 October 2018 or such longer
period as may be allowed by the relevant authorities;
On 20 March 2023, the Company had announced the extension of the duration of the ESOS for another 5 years from 2
October 2023 to 1 October 2028.
(ii) As of the date of offer, an employee who fulfils the following conditions shall be eligible to participate in the ESOS:
(a) has attained eighteen (18) years of age;
(b) is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to any bankruptcy proceedings;
(c) must have been confirmed in service and have served at least six (6) months in the employment of the Group
and of the Company;
(d) the employee is under an employment contract, which the contract is for a duration of at least one (1) year and
shall have not expired within three (3) months from the date of offer; and
(e) has fulfilled any other criteria as may be imposed by the ESOS Committee from time to time.
(iii) The exercise price shall be determined by ESOS Committee and shall be based on the five (5)-day Volume Weighted
Average Market Price (“VWAMP”) of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of offer, with a discount, if
any, the such discount shall not be more than ten percent (10%);
(iv) The shares issued and allocated pursuant to the exercise of the options shall, upon issuance and allotment rank pari-
passu in all respects with the then existing shares and be entitled to all rights (including voting, dividend, allotment,
distribution, transfer and other rights, as well as those arising on a liquidation of the Company) attaching to the then
existing shares, save and except that new shares so issued and allocated will not be entitled to any dividends, rights,
allotments or other forms of distribution which may be declared, made or paid, for which entitlement date is prior to
the date allotment of such new shares; and
(v) The eligible employees shall be entitled to exercise such number of the vested options within the option period and
they shall have no right to exercise all or any of the options that have been granted but not vested to them.
The options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares is as follows:
Date of offer Expiry date
Number of options over ordinary shares
At
1.1.2022 Granted Exercised Expired
At
31.12.2022
24.11.2021 17.11.2022 3,801,500 - (2,812,000) (989,500) -
20.6.2022 19.6.2023 - 250,000 (250,000) - -
3,801,500 250,000 (3,062,000) (989,500) -
Directors’ Report
100
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Directors’ Report
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The directors of the Company who held office during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Dr. Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Gan Ka Bien
DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of directors of the subsidiaries during the financial
year and up to the date of this report are:
Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lau Wing Hon
Jean-Marc, Michael Lhermite (Resigned on 14 April 2023)
Toshiro Nakazawa (Resigned on 14 April 2023)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the
Company and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 as recorded in the Register of
Directors’ Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
At
1.1.2022 Acquired (Disposed)
At
31.12.2022
THE COMPANY
Direct interest
Gan Thiam Chai 88,170,148 3,637,400 - 91,807,548
Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 - - 22,462,133
Kwan Sok Kay 19,724,405 - - 19,724,405
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,637,028 - - 7,637,028
Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 - - 4,013,849
Deemed interest
Gan Thiam Chai 10,711,600 - - 10,711,600
Gan Thiam Hock 1,546,300 1,160,000 - 2,706,300
Kwan Sok Kay 10,711,600 - - 10,711,600
By virtue of his substantial interests in the shares of the Company, Gan Thiam Chai is also deemed interested in the shares
of the subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
None of the other directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the
Company and of its related corporations.
101 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
the benefits shown under directors’ remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation
with a director or with a firm of which a director is a member or with a company in which the director has a substantial
financial interest, other than certain directors, and the spouse of a director and children of certain directors who have
significant financial interests in companies which traded with certain companies within the Group in the ordinary course of
business as disclosed in Note 38 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling directors of the
Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body
corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The amount of remuneration of the directors or past directors of the Company comprising remuneration received/receivable
from the Company and the subsidiaries during the financial year are as follows:
From the
Company
RM
From the
subsidiaries
RM
Executive directors
Fees 340,000 -
Salaries and bonuses - 3,018,438
Defined contribution benefits - 365,155
Benefits-in-kind - 52,250
Meeting allowances 54,000 -
394,000 3,435,843
Non-executive directors
Fees 415,000 -
Meeting allowances 108,000 -
523,000 -
917,000 3,435,843
INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the directors and the
officers of the Group and of the Company are RM20,000,000 and RM37,110 respectively.
No indemnity has been given to or insurance premium paid, during or since the end of financial year, for the auditors of the
Group and of the Company.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Directors’ Report
102
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Directors’ Report
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amounts paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors are as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- audit fees 301,000 55,000
- non-audit fees 8,000 8,000
309,000 63,000
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and
that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that the current assets which were unlikely to realise their values as shown in the accounting records in
the ordinary course of business had been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts and the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group
and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would
render any amount stated in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements misleading.
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the directors:
(i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the
period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and
of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due; and
(ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the
financial year and the date of this report which is likely to substantially affect the results of the operations of the
Group and of the Company for the current financial year.
103 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
AUDITORS
The auditors, RSM Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI			 GAN THIAM HOCK
Selangor
17 April 2023
Directors’ Report
104
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2022
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 6 210,392,802 220,072,738 - -
Right-of-use assets 7 17,050,791 17,980,460 - -
Investment properties 8 7,847,930 7,993,769 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 9 - - 64,107,252 62,126,760
Investment in an associate 10 1,615,915 - - -
Investment in a jointly controlled entity 11 - - - -
Investment in a joint venture 12 100,000 - - -
Other investments 13 - - 122,000,000 122,000,000
Deferred tax assets 14 464,119 464,119 - -
Total non-current assets 237,471,557 246,511,086 186,107,252 184,126,760
Current assets
Other investments 13 2,799,036 2,894,315 - -
Trade and other receivables 15 72,547,213 55,949,928 10,656,204 4,081,031
Inventories 16 42,033,804 32,732,220 - -
Current tax assets 4,266,268 3,897,472 2,487,900 2,084,033
Prepayments 3,110,842 4,371,561 30,706 -
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments 17 98,581,662 88,600,585 10,225,933 11,986,821
Total current assets 223,338,825 188,446,081 23,400,743 18,151,885
TOTAL ASSETS 460,810,382 434,957,167 209,507,995 202,278,645
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 18 184,889,706 179,759,880 184,889,706 179,759,880
Treasury shares 19 (1,345,429) - (1,345,429) -
Reserves 20 213,323,547 188,583,970 25,731,549 22,145,784
396,867,824 368,343,850 209,275,826 201,905,664
Non-controlling interests - 658,373 - -
TOTAL EQUITY 396,867,824 369,002,223 209,275,826 201,905,664
105 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 21 - 2,113,126 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 14 12,702,708 13,618,054 - -
Total non-current liabilities 12,702,708 15,731,180 - -
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 21 6,398,772 10,005,435 - -
Trade and other payables 22 44,649,288 40,026,539 232,169 372,981
Current tax liabilities 191,790 191,790 - -
Total current liabilities 51,239,850 50,223,764 232,169 372,981
TOTAL LIABILITIES 63,942,558 65,954,944 232,169 372,981
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 460,810,382 434,957,167 209,507,995 202,278,645
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2022
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
106
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
REVENUE 23 293,231,119 251,769,749 14,811,593 22,710,593
COST OF SALES (191,684,230) (161,232,739) - -
GROSS PROFIT 101,546,889 90,537,010 14,811,593 22,710,593
OTHER INCOME 24 11,117,491 6,834,105 1,413,758 918,453
SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES (47,361,396) (37,574,225) - -
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (25,353,412) (23,481,359) (1,446,134) (1,740,168)
PROFIT FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 39,949,572 36,315,531 14,779,217 21,888,878
FINANCE INCOME 25 890,846 957,787 63,306 57,115
FINANCE COSTS 26 (312,323) (617,277) (7,745) (175)
SHARE OF LOSS OF ASSOCIATE (384,085) - - -
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 27 40,144,010 36,656,041 14,834,778 21,945,818
TAXATION 28 (1,666,272) (4,871,175) - -
38,477,738 31,784,866 14,834,778 21,945,818
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (EXPENSE)/INCOME,
NET OF TAX:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign
operations 29 (2,635,288) 1,855,601 - -
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR 35,842,450 33,640,467 14,834,778 21,945,818
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 38,498,719 31,785,088 14,834,778 21,945,818
Non-controlling interests (20,981) (222) - -
38,477,738 31,784,866 14,834,778 21,945,818
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 35,863,431 33,640,689 14,834,778 21,945,818
Non-controlling interests (20,981) (222) - -
35,842,450 33,640,467 14,834,778 21,945,818
2022
sen
2021
sen
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE:
- Basic 30 10.70 8.84
- Diluted 30 10.70 8.83
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
107 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statements of Changes in Equity
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Total
RM
Non-
controlling
interests
RM
Total
equity
RM
Non-distributable Distributable
Share
capital
RM
Translation
reserve
RM
Share
option
reserve
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Group
Balance as at 1.1.2021 179,759,880 9,027,958 1,114,860 - 155,106,025 345,008,723 658,595 345,667,318
Profit for the financial year - - - - 31,785,088 31,785,088 (222) 31,784,866
Other comprehensive
income for the financial
year - 1,855,601 - - - 1,855,601 - 1,855,601
Total comprehensive
income/(expense) for
the financial year - 1,855,601 - - 31,785,088 33,640,689 (222) 33,640,467
Contributions by and
distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of
the Company 31 - - - - (10,785,593) (10,785,593) - (10,785,593)
- share options granted
under ESOS - - 480,031 - - 480,031 - 480,031
- share options lapsed - - (1,114,860) - 1,114,860 - - -
Total transactions with
owners of the Company - - (634,829) - (9,670,733) (10,305,562) - (10,305,562)
Balance as at
31.12.2021/1.1.2022 179,759,880 10,883,559 480,031 - 177,220,380 368,343,850 658,373 369,002,223
Profit for the financial year - - - - 38,498,719 38,498,719 (20,981) 38,477,738
Other comprehensive
expense for the
financial year - (2,635,288) - - - (2,635,288) - (2,635,288)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income for
the financial year - (2,635,288) - - 38,498,719 35,863,431 (20,981) 35,842,450
Contributions by and
distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of
the Company 31 - - - - (10,768,982) (10,768,982) - (10,768,982)
- issuance of ordinary
shares pursuant to
ESOS 18 5,129,826 - (386,223) - - 4,743,603 - 4,743,603
- share options granted
under ESOS - - 31,351 - - 31,351 - 31,351
- share options lapsed - - (125,159) - 125,159 - - -
- share buy-back 19 - - - (1,345,429) - (1,345,429) - (1,345,429)
- changes in ownership
interest in a subsidiary - - - - - - (637,392) (637,392)
Total transactions with
owners of the Company 5,129,826 - (480,031) (1,345,429) (10,643,823) (7,339,457) (637,392) (7,976,849)
Balance as at 31.12.2022 184,889,706 8,248,271 - (1,345,429) 205,075,276 396,867,824 - 396,867,824
108
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statements of Changes in Equity
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
RM
Share
capital
RM
Share
option
reserve
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Company
Balance as at 1.1.2021 179,759,880 1,114,860 - 9,390,668 190,265,408
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the financial year - - - 21,945,818 21,945,818
Contributions by and
distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the
Company 31 - - - (10,785,593) (10,785,593)
- share options granted
under ESOS - 480,031 - - 480,031
- share options lapsed - (1,114,860) - 1,114,860 -
- (634,829) - (9,670,733) (10,305,562)
Balance as at 31.12.2021/1.1.2022 179,759,880 480,031 - 21,665,753 201,905,664
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the financial year - - - 14,834,778 14,834,778
Contributions by and
distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the
Company 31 - - - (10,768,982) (10,768,982)
- issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to ESOS 18 5,129,826 (386,223) - - 4,743,603
- share options granted
under ESOS - 31,351 - - 31,351
- share options lapsed - (125,159) - - (125,159)
- share buy-back 19 - - (1,345,429) - (1,345,429)
5,129,826 (480,031) (1,345,429) (10,768,982) (7,464,616)
Balance as at 31.12.2022 184,889,706 - (1,345,429) 25,731,549 209,275,826
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
109 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before taxation 40,144,010 36,656,041 14,834,778 21,945,818
Adjustments for:
Bad debts written off 187,249 1,991 - -
Depreciation of investment properties 8 145,839 148,969 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 18,749,314 18,051,273 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 7 340,513 351,995 - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 27 18,494 - - -
Dividends income 23 - - (14,811,593) (22,710,593)
Employees’ share option scheme expenses 27 31,350 479,749 - -
Finance income from money market funds 25 (890,846) (957,787) (63,606) (57,115)
Impairment loss on trade receivables 27 1,065,377 102,288 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade
receivables 27 (74,206) (53,425) - -
Provision for slow moving inventories 16 243,884 - - -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer
required 16 (109,167) (208,376) - -
Inventories written off 16 435,645 491,405 - -
Finance costs 26 168,681 416,345 - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment 27 (43,493) (25,303) - -
Gain on disposal of other investments 27 - (465,238) - -
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial assets 27 95,279 (405,444) - -
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange 27 (725,768) (377,593) (1,413,758) (918,453)
Share of loss in an associate 384,085 - - -
Operating profit/(loss) before working capital
changes 60,166,240 54,206,890 (1,454,179) (1,740,343)
Increase in inventories (9,871,946) (2,776,212) - -
(Increase)/Decrease in trade and other
receivables, prepayments and other financial
assets (16,675,561) (9,654,112) (2,673,687) 3,629,922
Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other
payables 5,346,781 (4,782,802) (140,812) 262,408
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 38,965,514 36,993,764 (4,268,678) 2,151,987
Dividends received - - 10,785,593 19,111,593
Income tax paid (2,953,549) (4,624,218) (403,867) (934,950)
Income tax refund 3,080 - - -
Net cash generated from operating activities 36,015,045 32,369,546 6,113,048 20,328,630
110
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Investment in an associate (2,000,000) - - -
Investment in a joint venture (100,000) - - -
Increase stake in a subsidiary (637,392) - (637,392) -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment 59,000 611,817 - -
Proceeds from disposal of other investments - 4,294,483 - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9,677,916) (9,773,701) - -
Purchase of right-of-use assets - (604,876) - -
Finance income received from money market
funds 25 890,846 957,787 63,606 57,115
Placement in other investments - (5,926,116) - -
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing
activities (11,465,462) (10,440,606) (573,786) 57,115
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid to owners of the Company 31 (10,768,982) (10,785,593) (10,768,982) (10,785,593)
Finance costs on loans and borrowings 26 (168,681) (416,345) - -
Proceeds from Employees’ share option scheme
granted to subsidiaries 1 282 - -
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to Employees' share option scheme 4,743,603 - 4,743,603 -
Repayment of loans and borrowings (5,719,789) (3,065,994) - -
Share buy-back 19 (1,345,429) - (1,345,429) -
Net cash used in financing activities (13,259,277) (14,267,650) (7,370,808) (10,785,593)
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS 11,290,306 7,661,290 (1,831,546) 9,600,152
Effect of foreign exchange differences (1,309,229) 1,528,921 70,658 47,049
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BROUGHT
FORWARD 88,600,585 79,410,374 11,986,821 2,339,620
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CARRIED
FORWARD 17 98,581,662 88,600,585 10,225,933 11,986,821
111 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Statements of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2022
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
The reconciliation of liabilities arising from
financing activities is as follows:
At 1 January
Cash flows: 12,118,561 15,184,555 - -
Interest paid (168,681) (416,345) - -
Repayments of borrowings (5,719,789) (3,065,994) - -
Non-cash changes:
Interest charged during the financial year 168,681 416,345 - -
At 31 December 6,398,772 12,118,561 - -
Cash outflows for leases as lessee
Included in net cash from operating activities:
Payment relating to short-term leases 272,713 326,912 - -
Total cash outflows for leases 272,713 326,912 - -
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
112
112
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
1. PRINCIPAL ACITIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries
are as stated in Note 9 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”) issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”), International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
In addition, the directors are also required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the accounting
policies. The areas involving such judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 5. Although
these estimates and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual
results could differ from those estimates.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in
the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control
ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights
are considered when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. The Group also considers
it has de facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the
current ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investment
includes transaction costs.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to align them with the policies
adopted by the Group.
113 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
113
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(ii) Associate
Associate is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating policy
decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Associate is accounted for using the equity method of
accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-
acquisition change in the investor’s share of comprehensive income of the associate. On acquisition of
the investment, the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at fair value. Any excess of
the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets
and liabilities is recorded as goodwill and included in the carrying amount of the investment. Goodwill
is tested for impairment together with the investment at the end of each reporting period when there is
objective evidence that the investment is impaired. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of
the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognised in consolidated profit or loss.
The Group’s share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss,
and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other
comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying
amount of the investment.
Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
If the Group’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does
not provide for additional losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the
associate.
Profits or losses on Group transactions with associate is eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in
the relevant associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained
interest plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date
when equity method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant influence, any
retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is recognised in
profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified
proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss
on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
Investment in associate is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
includes transaction costs.
114
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(iii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition date, which is
the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For new acquisitions, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
(a) the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
(b) the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
(c) if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the
acquiree; less
(d) the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests in the
acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the
acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group
incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
(iv) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of
control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders. Any difference
between the Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any consideration received or
paid, is adjusted to or against Group reserves.
(v) Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the former
subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the former
subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss
of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then
such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as
equity accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence
retained.
115 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(vi) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement (i.e. either a joint operation or a joint venture, depending on the rights and obligations
of the jointly controlling parties to the arrangement), is one in which the Group is party to an arrangement
of which two or more parties have joint control, which is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the
arrangement; it exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of
the parties sharing control.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
method less any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution (or included in
a disposal group that is classified as held for sale or distribution). The consolidated financial statements
include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity-accounted
joint ventures, after adjustments, if any, to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the
date that joint control ceases.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, the carrying
amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition of
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the joint venture.
Joint venture is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating
policy decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Joint venture is accounted for using the equity
method of accounting.
Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
includes transaction costs.
(vii) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not attributable
directly or indirectly to the owners of the Company, are presented in the consolidated statement of financial
position and statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners
of the Company. Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group are presented in the consolidated
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the
comprehensive income for the year between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling
interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
(viii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to
the extent of the Group’s interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as
unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
116
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transaction
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of
the reporting period, except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional
currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences
arising on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised
in other comprehensive income.
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable
to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange
gains and losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a
foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign
currency translation reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
The assets and liabilities of operations in functional currencies other than RM, including goodwill and fair
value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting
period, except for goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January
2012 (the date when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the Group
and of the Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to RM at exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the
FCTR in equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign operation is
disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR
related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the
relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group
disposes of only part of its investment in a joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining
joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
117 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments
(i) Initial recognition and measurement
The Group and the Company recognise a financial asset or a financial liability (including derivative
instruments) in the statement of financial position when, and only when, an entity in the Group and the
Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
On initial recognition, all financial assets (including intra-group loans and advances) and financial liabilities
(including intra-group payables) are measured at fair value plus transaction costs if the financial asset or
financial liability is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. For instruments measured at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs are expensed to profit or loss when incurred.
(ii) Financial assets
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, the Group or the Company classify financial assets into two
measurement categories, namely: (i) financial assets at amortised cost (“AC”) and (ii) financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The classification is based on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model objective for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics
of the financial instruments.
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure financial assets, as follows:
(i) Financial assets at AC
A financial asset is measured at AC if: (a) it is held within the Group’s and the Company’s business
objective to hold the asset only to collect contractual cash flows, and (b) the contractual terms of the
financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest in principal outstanding.
(ii) Financial assets at FVPL
A financial asset is measured at FVPL if it is an equity investment, held for trading (including derivative
assets) or if it does not meet any of the condition specified for the AC model.
Other than financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, all other financial assets are
subject to review for impairment in accordance with Note 3(k)(i)
(iii) Financial liabilities
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure all financial liabilities at amortised cost using
the effective interest method, except for:
Financial guarantee contracts is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due
in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantees issued are
initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at higher of: (a) the amount of the loss
allowance; and (b) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative of income
recognised in accordance with the principles in MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
118
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments (continued)
(iv) Derecognition of financial instruments
For derecognition purposes, the Group and the Company first determine whether a financial asset or a
financial liability should be derecognised in its entirety as a single item or derecognised part-by-part of a
single item or of a group of similar items.
A financial asset, whether as a single item or as a part, is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual
rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or when the Group and the Company
transfer the contractual rights to receive cash flows of the financial asset, including circumstances when
the Group and the Company act only as a collecting agent of the transferee, and retain no significant risks
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset or no continuing involvement in the control of the financial
asset transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, it is legally extinguished, which is either when the
obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. A substantial modification of the
terms of an existing financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability
and the recognition of a new financial liability. For this purpose, the Group and the Company consider a
modification as substantial if the present value of the revised cash flows of the modified terms discounted
at the original effective interest rate is different by 10% or more when compared with the carrying amount
of the original liability.
(v) Fair value measurement
The fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability is determined by reference to the quoted market
price in an active market, and in the absence of an observable market price, by a valuation technique as
described in Note 3(v).
(vi) Recognition of gains and losses
Fair value changes of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss
are recognised in profit or loss when they arise.
For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense
are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. A gain or loss is recognised in profit
or loss only when the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired, and through the
amortisation process of the instrument.
119 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any other costs
directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling
and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets
also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in
accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. Costs also may include transfers from equity of any
gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of
that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the
proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net
within “other income” and “administrative expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent cost
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will
flow to the Group, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component
is derecognised to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset,
then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably
certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Leasehold land is amortised over
the remaining lease periods ranging from 66 to 82 years.
The estimated useful lives of other property, plant and equipment for the current and previous years are as follows:
Buildings 40 to 50 years
Apartments 50 years
Motor vehicles 5 to 10 years
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 10 years
Renovation 10 years
Signage 10 years
Capital work in progress is not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.
120
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Leases
(i) Definition of a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an identified asset for
a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control
the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly,
and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct
asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified;
• the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset
throughout the period of use; and
• the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the decision-
making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset is used. In rare
cases where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the
Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if either the Group has the right to operate the asset;
or the Group designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates the
consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on the basis of their relative stand-alone
prices. However, for leases of properties in which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate non-lease
components and will instead account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial
direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to
restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot
be readily determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group
entities use their incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentive receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or
rate at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise; and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate
early.
The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of the
underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit or loss in
the period in which the performance or use occurs.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease
payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
121 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Leases (continued)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement (continued)
(b) As a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance
lease or an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers
substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the
case, then the lease is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15 to allocate
the consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of
the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use asset are determined on the same basis as
those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by
impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there
is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of
the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its
assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount
of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use
asset has been reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on straight-line
basis over the lease term as part of “other income”.
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on business combinations is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. In
respect of joint venture, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment
and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill that forms part
of the carrying amount of the joint venture.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that it may
be impaired.
122
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(h) Investment properties
(i) Investment properties carried at cost
Investment properties are properties which are owned to earn rental income or for capital appreciation
or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods
or services or for administrative purposes. These include freehold land and leasehold land which in
substance is a lease held for a currently undetermined future use. Properties that are occupied by the
Group are accounted for as owner-occupied rather than as investment properties. Investment properties
are measured at cost are accounted for similarly to property, plant and equipment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment properties. The
cost of self-constructed investment properties includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other
costs directly attributable to bringing the investment properties to a working condition for their intended use
and capitalised borrowing costs. Right-of-use asset held under a lease contract that meets the definition
of investment property is initially measured similarly as other right-of-use assets.
An investment property is derecognised on disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no
future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds
and the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 50
years for buildings and over the remaining lease periods of 85 years for leasehold land. Freehold land is not
depreciated.
(ii) Determination of fair value
The directors estimate the fair values of the Group’s investment properties without the involvement of
independent valuers.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be
exchanged on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length
transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on the weighted average cost method, and includes expenditure
incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them
to their existing location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of
production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to known amount of cash with insignificant risk of changes in fair value.
123 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(k) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets
measured at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses, except for cash and bank balance. Loss allowances for trade receivables is always measured at an
amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company consider reasonable
and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both
quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and
informed credit assessment and including forward-looking information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events
over the expected life of the asset, while 12 months expected losses are the portion of expected credit losses
that result from default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum
period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which
the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision
matrix with reference to historical credit loss experiences.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss
and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised
cost are credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there
is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the Company determine
that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generated sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to write-off. However, financial assets that are written-off could still be subject
to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery
amounts due.
124
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(k) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amount of the other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets) are reviewed at
the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that
have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each
period at the same time.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets
or cash generating units. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment
testing, is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the
combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair
value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset or the cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of
cash-generating units (groups of cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the
other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses
recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications that the
loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment
loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to profit or loss in the financial year
in which the reversals are recognised.
(l) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured subsequently.
(i) Issue expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised as a deduction
from equity.
(ii) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(iii) Dividend distribution
Dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are declared (i.e. the dividends are appropriately
authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity). Typically, dividends are recognised as liabilities
in the period in which their distribution is approved at the Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting. Interim
dividends are recognised when paid.
125 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(l) Equity instruments (continued)
(iv) Treasury shares
The cost of treasury shares purchased is shown as a deduction from equity in the statement of financial
position. When treasury shares are sold or reissued, they are credited to equity. As a result, no gain or loss
on treasury shares is included in profit or loss.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and sick
leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing
plans if the Group and the Company have a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as
a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Group’s contributions to the statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial year
to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
(n) Share-based payments
Share-based payments of the Group and of the Company are equity-settled share options granted to employees,
for which an option pricing model is used to estimate the fair value at grant date. That fair value is charged on a
straight-line basis as an expense in the profit or loss over the period that the employee becomes unconditionally
entitled to the options (vesting period), with a corresponding increase in equity.
The number of such options is adjusted annually to reflect best estimates of those expected to vest (ignoring
purely market-based conditions) with consequent changes to the expense. Equity is also increased by the
proceeds receivable, as and when employees choose to exercise their options.
If the Group and the Company modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted,
as a minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted
(unless those equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition other than a market
condition) are charged to the profit or loss.
Cancellations of grants of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by forfeiture
when the vesting conditions are not satisfied) are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting, therefore the
unrecognised remaining amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
(o) Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation
that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The
unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
126
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(p) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The
Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset
is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of the assets.
The Group transfers control of goods or services at a point in time unless one of the following overtime
criteria is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
(b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is
created or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an
enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is
established.
(iii) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term
of the lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the
term of the lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other income.
(iv) Finance income
Finance income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss except for
finance income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically for the purpose of
obtaining a qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with accounting policy on borrowing
costs.
(q) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which
are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are
capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases
when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are
interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
127 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(r) Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or
loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or other
comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in
respect of previous financial years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax is not
recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of
assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end
of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities
and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on
different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or their tax assets
and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be
realised.
(s) Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, and adjusted for own shares held.
The dilutive earnings per share of the Group has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to
equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been issued
upon full exercise of the remaining share options and convertible notes, adjusted by the number of such shares
that would have been issued at fair value.
(t) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn
revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s
other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating
decision maker, which in this case is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group, to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is
available.
(u) Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be estimated
reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is disclosed as a contingent
liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations, whose existence
will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as
contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
128
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(v) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability
takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous
market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that
would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable market data
as far as possible. Fair value are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used
in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group and the
Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly or indirectly.
Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group and the Company recognise transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS
4.1 Amendments to MFRSs adopted
For the preparation of the financial statements, the following amendments to the MFRSs issued by the MASB are
mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2022:
• Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations – Reference to the Conceptual Framework
• Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment – Property, Plant and Equipment–Proceeds before
Intended Use
• Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets – Onerous Contracts−
Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
• Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020
The adoption of the above-mentioned amendments to MFRSs has no significant impact on the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company.
129 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED)
4.2 Amendments to MFRSs not yet effective
The following are amendments to the MFRSs that have been issued by the MASB up to the date of the issuance
of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial statements but have not been adopted by the Group and the
Company:
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure of Accounting Policies
• Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – Definition of
Accounting Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 112 Income Taxes – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
• Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Classification of Liabilities as Current or
Non-current
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investment in Associates and
Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
The directors anticipate that the above-mentioned amendments will be adopted by the Group and the Company
when they become effective.
The initial application of amendments to MFRSs is not expected to have any significant impact on the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company.
4.3 MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs not applicable
• MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and Amendment to MFRS 17
Insurance Contracts – Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Comparative
Information are not expected to be applicable to the Group and the Company.
130
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
In preparing its financial statements, the Group and the Company have made significant judgements, estimates and
assumptions that impact on the carrying value of certain assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as other
information reported in the notes. The Group and the Company periodically monitor such estimates and assumptions
and makes sure they incorporate all relevant information available at the date when financial statements are
prepared. However, this does not prevent actual figures differing from estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies that have the
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and the estimates and assumptions
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are addressed below.
(a) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties
The cost of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties are depreciated
on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic useful lives. The directors estimate the useful lives of
these property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties to be within 3 to 85 years.
Changes in the expected level of usage and technological developments could impact the economic useful lives
and the residual values of these assets, therefore future depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying
amount of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties are disclosed in Note
6, Note 7 and Note 8 respectively.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group and the Company assess whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets
at each reporting date. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that the
carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value
in use.
The carrying amount of the non-financial assets are disclosed in Notes 6 to 12 respectively.
(c) Loss allowances of financial assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a
financial asset is impaired. To determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment, the Group and
the Company consider factors such as the probability of insolvency, significant financial difficulties of the
receivables, default or significant delay in payments, current economic trends and forward-looking information
that is available.
Where there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount and timing of future cash flows are estimated
based on historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
131 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Tax
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing
of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and
the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax
provisions already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible
consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates. The amount of such
provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of
tax regulations by the taxable entity and the relevant tax authority. Such differences of interpretation may arise
on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective Group’s domicile.
The carrying amount of current tax assets at 31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company is RM4,266,268
(2021: RM3,897,472) and RM2,487,900 (2021: RM2,084,033) respectively.
The carrying amount of current tax liabilities at 31 December 2022 of the Group is RM191,790 (2021: RM191,790).
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 14.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to
determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of
future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
(e) Net realisable value of inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is written down to
their estimated realisable value when their cost may no longer be recoverable such as when inventories are
damaged or become wholly or partly obsolete or their selling prices have declined. In any case, the realisable
value represents the best estimate of the recoverable amount, is based on the most reliable evidence available
at the reporting date and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected realisable value. The
benchmarks for determining the amount of write-downs to net realisable value include ageing analysis, technical
assessment and subsequent events. In general, such an evaluation process requires significant judgement and
may materially affect the carrying amount of inventories at the reporting date (as reflected in Note 16).
(f) Share-based payments
Share-based payments are measured at grant date fair value. For share options granted to employees, in many
cases market prices are not available and therefore the fair value of the options granted shall be estimated
by applying an option pricing model. Option pricing models need input data such as expected volatility of the
share price, expected dividends or the risk-free interest rate for the life of the option. The overall objective is
to approximate the expectations that would be reflected in a current market or negotiated exchange price for
the option. Such assumptions are subject to judgements and may turn out to be significantly different than
expected.
Fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s and the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will
eventually vest. The estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest is revised by the Group and
the Company at the end of each reporting period through settlement. Revisions of the original estimates, if any, is
recognised in profit or loss so that the cumulative expense includes the revised estimate, with the corresponding
adjustment to the reserve for employee equity-settled benefits.
132
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Buildings
RM
Apartments
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2021 116,443,686 515,912 5,800,959
Additions 143,270 - 476,053
Disposals - - (764,100)
Written off - - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates 1,228,764 - 80,149
Reclassification 3,759,561 - -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 121,575,281 515,912 5,593,061
Additions - - 746,419
Disposals - - (145,923)
Written off - - (158,501)
Effect of movements in exchange rates (838,584) - (49,926)
Reclassification 107,779 - -
Transfer from right-of-use assets - - -
At 31 December 2022 120,844,476 515,912 5,985,130
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2021 9,705,068 167,390 2,060,836
Charge for the financial year 2,385,023 10,741 1,125,412
Disposals - - (429,767)
Written off - - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates 266,757 - 55,328
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 12,356,848 178,131 2,811,809
Charge for the financial year 2,420,574 10,741 1,086,338
Disposals - - (130,417)
Written off - - (140,007)
Effect of movements in exchange rates (159,567) - (37,069)
Transfer from right-of-use assets - - -
At 31 December 2022 14,617,855 188,872 3,590,654
Accumulated impairment loss
At 1 January 2021 - - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 - - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - -
At 31 December 2022 - - -
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 109,218,433 337,781 2,781,252
At 31 December 2022 106,226,621 327,040 2,394,476
133 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
Furniture,
fittings and office
equipment
RM
Plant and
machinery
RM
Renovations
RM
Signage
RM
Capital work
in progress
RM
Total
RM
13,481,317 146,355,806 8,454,966 287,029 17,336,099 308,675,774
1,255,564 2,150,063 26,037 - 5,722,714 9,773,701
(83,650) (889,202) - - - (1,736,952)
- (2,960) - - - (2,960)
71,020 1,046,621 - - (654,282) 1,772,272
20,580 14,069,402 107,463 - (17,957,006) -
14,744,831 162,729,730 8,588,466 287,029 4,447,525 318,481,835
515,720 3,121,455 - - 5,294,322 9,677,916
- (18,000) - - - (163,923)
- - - - - (158,501)
(383,622) (598,416) - - (3,908) (1,874,456)
8,119 5,357,204 - - (5,473,102) -
604,876 - - - - 604,876
15,489,924 170,591,973 8,588,466 287,029 4,264,837 326,567,747
5,766,993 56,457,429 5,438,842 90,457 - 79,687,015
1,565,515 12,561,131 378,728 24,723 - 18,051,273
(22,566) (698,105) - - - (1,150,438)
- (2,960) - - - (2,960)
57,879 954,745 - - - 1,334,709
7,367,821 69,272,240 5,817,570 115,180 - 97,919,599
1,636,259 13,198,673 372,006 24,723 - 18,749,314
- (17,999) - - - (148,416)
- - - - - (140,007)
(41,322) (556,757) - - - (794,715)
116,804 - - - - 116,804
9,079,562 81,896,157 6,189,576 139,903 - 115,702,579
- 489,965 - - - 489,965
- (467) - - - (467)
- 489,498 - - - 489,498
- (17,132) - - - (17,132)
- 472,366 - - - 472,366
7,377,010 92,967,992 2,770,896 171,849 4,447,525 220,072,738
6,410,362 88,223,450 2,398,890 147,126 4,264,837 210,392,802
134
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Apartments
The strata title for apartments with net carrying amount of RM152,575 (2021: RM157,563) have yet to be issued to
a subsidiary.
(b) Security
Buildings with net carrying amount of RM18,132,690 (2021: RM19,156,629) have been charge to licensed banks for
banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 21).
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold
lands
RM
Prepaid lease
payments
RM
Total
RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2021 16,737,790 3,943,745 20,681,535
Addition - 604,876 604,876
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 248,530 248,530
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 16,737,790 4,797,151 21,534,941
Transfer to property, plant and equipment - (604,876) (604,876)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - (140,066) (140,066)
At 31 December 2022 16,737,790 4,052,209 20,789,999
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2021 2,033,942 1,104,250 3,138,192
Charge for the financial year 207,491 144,504 351,995
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 64,294 64,294
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 2,241,433 1,313,048 3,554,481
Charge for the financial year 201,067 139,446 340,513
Transfer to property, plant and equipment - (116,804) (116,804)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - (38,982) (38,982)
At 31 December 2022 2,442,500 1,296,708 3,739,208
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 14,496,357 3,484,103 17,980,460
At 31 December 2022 14,295,290 2,755,501 17,050,791
135 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(a) Lands
The lands are wholly related to leasehold lands with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
(b) Prepaid lease payments
The prepaid lease payments are wholly related to a leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less
than 50 years. The prepaid lease payments are not transferable and have a remaining tenure of 34 years
(2021: 35 years).
(c) Security
Leasehold lands and prepaid lease payments with net carrying amount of RM15,651,586 (2021: RM16,009,431) have
been charged to licensed banks banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 21).
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Cost
At 1 January/31 December 10,491,946 10,491,946
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2,498,177 2,349,208
Charge for the financial year 145,839 148,969
At 31 December 2,644,016 2,498,177
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 7,847,930 7,993,769
Represented by:
Leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years 5,812,254 5,893,663
Buildings 2,035,676 2,100,106
7,847,930 7,993,769
Investment properties comprise two (2021: two) commercial properties that are leased to third parties. The leases are
renewable on yearly basis. No contingent is charged.
136
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
The fair value of the investment properties are as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At 31 December 66,909,323 53,015,086
The Group estimates the fair value of its investment properties based on the comparison of the Group’s investment
properties with similar properties that were listed for sale within the same locality or other comparable localities.
The disclosure of fair value above was measured at the reporting date using the following method:
Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
The valuation of commercial property is based on market comparable approach. The significant unobservable input
is yield adjustment based on directors’ assumptions. The yield adjustments are made for any difference in the nature,
location or condition of the specific property.
The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Rental income (1,618,080) (871,900)
Direct operating expenses 123,995 119,703
Investment properties of the Group amounting to RM7,847,930 (2021: RM7,993,769) has been charged to a licensed
bank for credit facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 21).
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 37,037,514 37,037,514
Increase stake in a subsidiary 637,392 -
Dissolution of a subsidiary (96,900) -
37,578,006 37,037,514
Less: Impairment loss
At beginning of the financial year (96,900) (96,900)
Impairment loss no longer required 96,900 -
At end of the financial year - (96,900)
37,578,006 36,940,614
Capital contribution 20,730,322 20,730,322
Effect of movements in exchange rates 5,798,924 4,455,824
64,107,252 62,126,760
137 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Subsidiaries of the Group
Effective
ownership interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Manufacturing and sale of frozen food
products
KG Pastry Marketing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Investment property and rental of trucks
Kawan Food Confectionery Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Investment holding
Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited*# 100 100 Hong Kong Trading and distribution of frozen food
products
KLBG Sdn. Bhd.** 100 60 Malaysia Manufacturing and exporting of frozen food
products
Dikawani Foods Sdn. Bhd.@ - 51 Malaysia Food truck operator
Subsidiary of Kawan Food
(Hong Kong) Limited
Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.* 100 100 The People’s
Republic of China
Manufacturing and trading of frozen food
delicacies
* Audited by other member firms of RSM International
** On 14 December 2022, the Company acquired 1,200,000 ordinary shares, representing 40% of equity interest in KLBG Sdn. Bhd. for
a total consideration of RM637,392. Subsequently, the entire equity interest is held by the Company.
@ On 22 July 2021, the entity has been dissolved.
# The capital contribution to Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited are interest free and are determined to form part of the Company’s
net investment in the subsidiary, hence are deemed as quasi-equity.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiary
The Group’s subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) is as follows:
KLBG Sdn. Bhd.
2022
RM
2021
RM
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest 40% 40%
Carrying amount of NCI - 658,373
Loss allocated to NCI (20,981) (222)
138
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Non-controlling interests in subsidiary (continued)
Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination
2021
RM
As at 31 December
Non-current asset 640,025
Current assets 1,365,306
Current liability (359,083)
Net assets 1,646,248
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 13,041
Loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year (555)
Cash flows used in operating activities (4,242)
Cash flows from financing activity 1
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalent (4,241)
10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 2,000,000 -
Share of post-acquisition loss (384,085) -
1,615,915 -
Details of the associate are as follows:
Associate of the Group
Effective
ownership interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd.#^@ 32.5 - Malaysia Sales of food and beverages via stall and
drive-thru basis
# Not audited by RSM Malaysia PLT.
^ On 22 March 2022, the Company acquired 32.5% of equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd. for total consideration of RM 2 million.
@ The associate was accounted for using the equity method by the group based on management accounts as at 31 December
2022 as the associate’s financial year ends on 30 September.
139 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
The following table summarises the unaudited information of the Group’s material associate:
Kejap Food
Sdn. Bhd.
2022
RM
Summarised financial information
As at 31 December
Non-current asset 2,161,395
Current assets 474,708
Non-current liabilities (245,000)
Current liabilities (1,389,397)
Net assets 1,001,706
Period ended 31 December
Revenue 1,852,007
Loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year (1,280,979)
Group’s share of results
Period ended 31 December
Group’s share of loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year (384,085)
11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITY
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 100,000 100,000
Dissolution of jointly controlled entity (100,000) -
- 100,000
Less: Impairment loss
At beginning of the financial year (100,000) (100,000)
Impairment loss no longer required 100,000 -
At end of the financial year - (100,000)
- -
Details of the jointly controlled entity are as follows:
Jointly controlled entity of the Group
Effective
ownership interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Hot & Go Management Sdn. Bhd. - 50 Malaysia Operation of kiosk for food and beverage
On 26 August 2021, the entity has been dissolved.
140
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
12. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 100,000 -
Details of the joint venture are as follows:
Joint Venture of the Group
Effective
ownership interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd.^# 40 - Malaysia Venture into biocompost business
^ On 16 December 2022, the Group has established and registered a joint venture company with Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd. On 20
January 2023, the Group had via one of its wholly own subsidiaries, entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with Good2Nature
Sdn. Bhd., which is the counterparty of the joint venture.
# The joint venture company was established and incorporated for less than one month as of 31 December 2022. Hence, no
summarised financial information has been disclosed as the directors of the Group regarded the financial information as
immaterial to the Group.
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Group
Shares
quoted in
Malaysia
RM
Total
RM
2022
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,799,036 2,799,036
Market value of quoted investments 2,799,036 2,799,036
2021
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,894,315 2,894,315
Market value of quoted investments 2,894,315 2,894,315
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-current
At cost
Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares (Unquoted shares) 122,000,000 122,000,000
Dividends recognised in profit or loss 4,026,000 3,599,000
141 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Group
Property, plant and equipment - - (19,952,205) (15,334,754) (19,952,205) (15,334,754)
Provisions 3,269,766 2,464,567 - - 3,269,766 2,464,567
Reinvestment allowance 4,320,000 - - - 4,320,000 -
Others 123,850 - - (283,748) 123,850 (283,748)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 7,713,616 2,464,567 (19,952,205) (15,618,502) (12,238,589) (13,153,935)
Set off (7,249,497) (2,000,448) 7,249,497 2,000,448 - -
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 464,119 464,119 (12,702,708) (13,618,054) (12,238,589) (13,153,935)
Movement in temporary differences during the financial year
At
1.1.2021
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 28)
RM
Recognised
in other
comprehensive
income
(Note 29)
RM
At
31.12.2021/
1.1.2022
RM
Recognised
in profit
or loss
(Note 28)
RM
Recognised
in other
comprehensive
income
(Note 29)
RM
At
31.12.2022
RM
Group
Property,
plant and
equipment (12,608,470) (2,726,284) - (15,334,754) (4,617,451) - (19,952,205)
Provisions 3,753,886 (1,289,319) - 2,464,567 805,199 - 3,269,766
Reinvestment
allowance - - - - 4,320,000 - 4,320,000
Others 120,603 (404,316) (35) (283,748) 407,653 (55) 123,850
(8,733,981) (4,419,919) (35) (13,153,935) 915,401 (55) (12,238,589)
As at 31 December 2022, the Group has the following deferred tax assets which are not recognised in the financial
statements due to uncertainty in the availability of future taxable income:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Property, plant and equipment (92,514) (85,528)
Unabsorbed capital allowances 140,291 114,339
Unabsorbed tax losses 262,813 225,573
310,590 254,384
142
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
As at 31 December 2022, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances and unabsorbed tax losses of approximately
RM584,000 (2021: RM476,000) and RM1,095,000 (2021: RM939,000) respectively, which are available to set off against
future chargeable income.
The unabsorbed capital allowances are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits except for the tax
losses which will expire in the following financial years:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Year of assessments
2029 300,817 300,817
2030 532,821 530,821
2031 106,248 106,248
2032 155,167 -
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade
Trade receivables (a) 67,939,251 56,083,994 - -
Less: Impairment loss
- Individual impairment losses (1,195,814) (413,198) - -
- Collective impairment losses (373,088) (164,533) - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates (15,920) (27,845) - -
66,354,429 55,478,418 - -
Non-trade
Amount due from subsidiaries (b) - - 10,654,204 4,079,031
Other receivables (c) 6,192,784 471,510 2,000 2,000
6,192,784 471,510 10,656,204 4,081,031
72,547,213 55,949,928 10,656,204 4,081,031
(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90 days) terms. They
are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial recognition.
Included in trade receivables of the Group is amount of RM11,858,158 (2021: RM4,864,793) due from companies in
which certain directors have interests and held directorship.
(b) Amount due from subsidiaries
Amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, interest free and receivable on demand.
(c) Other receivables
Included in other receivables of the Group is deposits paid to acquire five (5) parcels of vacant leasehold industrial lands.
143 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
16. INVENTORIES
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At cost
Raw materials 5,805,901 4,261,819
Packing materials 6,172,907 5,942,829
Finished goods 24,506,350 16,799,971
Spare parts 5,613,789 4,641,530
Goods-in-transit 539,018 1,555,515
42,637,965 33,201,664
Less: Allowance for slow moving inventories
At beginning of the financial year (469,444) (677,820)
Allowance during the financial year (243,884) -
Allowance no longer required 109,167 208,376
At end of the financial year (604,161) (469,444)
42,033,804 32,732,220
Recognised in profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 190,822,578 161,226,574
Inventories written off 435,645 491,405
Provision for slow moving inventories 243,884 -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer required (109,167) (208,376)
17. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Money market funds with licensed fund
management companies
- redeemable at call 560,714 317,610 201,828 159,047
- redeemable upon 1 day notice 53,899,555 62,587,727 1,810,259 2,061,210
54,460,269 62,905,337 2,012,087 2,220,257
Cash and bank balances 44,121,393 25,695,248 8,213,846 9,766,564
98,581,662 88,600,585 10,225,933 11,986,821
144
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
18. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amount
2022 2021 2022
RM
2021
RM
Issued and fully paid with no par value
At 1 January 359,519,760 359,519,760 179,759,880 179,759,880
Issued for cash under Employees’
Share Option Scheme 3,062,000 - 5,129,826 -
At 31 December 362,581,760 359,519,760 184,889,706 179,759,880
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one
vote per share at meetings of the Company.
During the financial year, the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company was increased from RM179,759,880 to
RM184,889,706 by way of issuance of 3,062,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Option
Scheme at an exercise price of RM1.540 and RM1.550 per ordinary share.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
19. TREASURY SHARES
Group and Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
At cost
At 1 January - -
Acquired during the financial year (1,345,429) -
At 31 December (1,345,429) -
The shares purchased can be retained as treasury shares, distributed as dividend, transferred, resold or subsequently
cancelled in accordance with Section 127 of the Companies Act 2016.
145 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
19. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)
The Company repurchased its shares of 882,100 ordinary shares with total consideration of RM1,345,429 as follows:
Date
Number of
shares
Purchase
price
Total
consideration
paid
RM
8 February 2022 10,000 1.450 14,500
15 February 2022 44,700 1.500 67,050
17 February 2022 25,500 1.500 38,250
28 February 2022 50,000 1.620 81,000
3 March 2022 99,500 1.597 158,900
4 March 2022 73,000 1.592 116,244
7 March 2022 37,500 1.539 57,693
9 March 2022 26,500 1.510 40,015
10 March 2022 23,200 1.526 35,411
11 March 2022 76,700 1.518 116,399
14 March 2022 87,100 1.520 132,392
17 March 2022 200,900 1.482 297,734
18 March 2022 107,500 1.489 160,041
21 March 2022 20,000 1.490 29,800
882,100 1,345,429
At the reporting date, the number of outstanding shares in issue after setting off the treasury shares against equity
was 361,699,660.
20. RESERVES
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Non-distributable:
Translation reserve 8,248,271 10,883,559 - -
ESOS share option reserve - 480,031 - 480,031
8,248,271 11,363,590 - 480,031
Distributable:
Retained earnings 205,075,276 177,220,380 25,731,549 21,665,753
213,323,547 188,583,970 25,731,549 22,145,784
146
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
20. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”).
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At beginning of financial year 10,883,559 9,027,958
Foreign currency translation during the financial year (2,635,288) 1,855,601
At end of financial year 8,248,271 10,883,559
Share option reserve
The share option reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of share options.
When the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital. When the share
options expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Share-based payments arrangement
Share option programme (equity settled)
On 31 May 2018, the shareholders of the Company approved the Employees’ Share Option Scheme. In accordance with
this programme, holders of vested options are entitled to purchase shares at the market price of the shares at the
date of grant.
The terms and conditions related to the grant of the share option scheme are as follows; all options are to be settled
by physical delivery of shares:
Grant date/employee entitled
Number of
options
Contractual
life of options
Exercisable
period
2022
Option granted to eligible employees
on 20 June 2022
250,000 1 year 20 June 2022 to
19 June 2023
Total share options 250,000
2021
Option granted to eligible employees
on 24 November 2021
3,801,500 1 year 24 November 2021 to
17 November 2022
Total share options 3,801,500
No vesting conditions for options offered.
147 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
20. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments arrangement (continued)
Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)
The number and weighted average exercise process of shares options are as follows:
2022
Number of
options
2021
Number of
options
Outstanding at 1 January 3,801,500 5,004,000
Granted during the financial year 250,000 3,801,500
Exercised during the financial year (3,062,000) -
Lapsed during the financial year (989,500) (5,004,000)
Outstanding at 31 December - 3,801,500
Exercisable at 31 December - 3,801,500
During the financial year, the share options granted have an exercise price of RM1.540 (2021: RM1.550) and contractual
life of 1 year (2021: 1 year). No option outstanding at 31 December 2022.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options
granted, measured using trinomial option pricing model, with the following inputs:
2022
RM
2021
RM
Fair value of share options and assumptions
Fair value at grant date 0.1254 0.1262
Weighted average share price 1.703 1.613
Share price at grant date 1.540 1.550
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility) 28.390% 26.661%
Options life (expected weighted average life) 1 year 1 year
Expected dividends 1.762% 1.859%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysia Government Securities) 2.925% 2.159%
Value of employee services received for issue of share options
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Share options granted 31,350 479,749
Total expenses recognised as shared-based payments 31,350 479,749
148
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
21. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Term loans
Classified as:
- non-current liability - 2,113,126
- current liability 6,398,772 10,005,435
6,398,772 12,118,561
Present value of term loans
Analysed as follows:
- not later than 1 year 6,398,772 10,005,435
- later than 1 year but not later than 5 years - 2,113,126
6,398,772 12,118,561
The Group’s term loans are secured over leasehold lands and buildings of subsidiaries and subject to interest at rates
ranging from 2.93% to 5.69% (2021: 1.15% to 3.99%) per annum (Notes 6, 7 and 8).
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Trade
Trade payables (a) 20,905,294 22,597,039 - -
Non-trade
Other payables (b) 6,512,302 6,203,738 35,371 28,302
Accruals 17,231,692 11,225,762 153,624 344,679
Amount due to a subsidiary (c) - - 43,174 -
23,743,994 17,429,500 232,169 372,981
44,649,288 40,026,539 232,169 372,981
(a) Trade payables
(i) Credit terms of trade payables are ranging from 30 to 60 days (2021: 30 to 60 days).
(ii) Included in trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM281,965 (2021: RM222,542) due to companies in
which certain directors have interests.
(b) Other payables
In 2021, included in other payables of RM343,896 is an amount due to a corporate shareholder of a subsidiary.
(c) Amount due to a subsidiary
Amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
149 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
23. REVENUE
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Revenue from contracts with customers 293,231,119 251,769,749 - -
Others
- dividends - - 14,811,593 22,710,593
293,231,119 251,769,749 14,811,593 22,710,593
Revenue from contracts with customers in
primary geographical markets
Malaysia 132,782,000 121,582,314 14,811,593 22,710,593
North America 65,351,884 53,881,626 - -
Rest of Asia 49,793,980 45,197,903 - -
Europe 30,180,269 20,618,766 - -
Oceania 13,850,829 9,713,375 - -
Africa 1,272,157 775,765 - -
293,231,119 251,769,749 14,811,593 22,710,593
Timing of recognition
At a point in time 293,231,119 251,769,749 14,811,593 22,710,593
Nature
of goods
Timing of
recognition
Significant
payment terms
Variable
element in
consideration
Obligation for
returns or refund Warranty
Frozen food
products
Revenue is recognised
upon transfer of
significant risk and
reward of ownership
of the goods to the
customer
Local sales:
Credit period of 30 to
90 days from invoice
date
Export sales:
Telegraphic transfer at
sight and telegraphic
transfer 90 days from
bill of lading date
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Rental of
property
Revenue is recognised
based on the
consideration specified
in a rental agreement
with tenant
On or before 10th of
each calendar month
Not
applicable
Upon expiry of rental
agreement, security
deposit is refundable
after deduct unpaid
rent, repairs for damage
other than normal
wear and tear or earlier
termination by any party
Not
applicable
150
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
24. OTHER INCOME
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Gain on foreign exchange:
- realised 4,144,350 850 - -
- unrealised 725,768 2,121,473 1,413,758 918,453
Rental income 4,530,025 3,153,119 - -
Other income 1,717,348 1,558,663 - -
11,117,491 6,834,105 1,413,758 918,453
25. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Interest income of financial assets calculated
using the effective interest method that are at
fair value through profit or loss:
- money market funds with licensed fund
management companies 890,846 957,787 63,306 57,115
26. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Interest expense of financial liabilities that are
not at fair value through profit or loss:
- term loans, secured 168,681 416,345 - -
- other bank charges 143,642 200,932 7,745 175
312,323 617,277 7,745 175
151 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
27. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON
Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting):
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- audit fees 301,000 280,200 55,000 50,000
- non-audit fees 8,000 10,000 8,000 7,000
Bad debts written off 187,249 1,991 - -
Depreciation of investment properties 145,839 148,969 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18,749,314 18,051,273 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 340,513 351,995 - -
Employees’ share option scheme expenses 31,350 479,749 - -
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial assets 95,279 (405,444) - -
Impairment loss on trade receivables:
- individual impairment loss 856,822 78,840 - -
- collective impairment loss 208,555 23,448 - -
Inventories written off 435,645 491,405 - -
Personnel expenses
(including key management personnel):
- wages, salaries and others 41,306,189 30,516,078 54,000 52,500
- contributions to state plans 3,621,283 2,927,368 - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 18,494 - - -
Provision for slow moving inventories 243,884 - - -
Rental expenses (#) in respect of:
- coldroom 49,886 102,377 - -
- storage 35,257 64,355 - -
- hostel 187,570 160,180 - -
Loss on foreign exchange:
- realised 330 941,318 330 1,585
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (43,493) (25,303) - -
Gain on disposal of other investments - (465,238) - -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer required (109,167) (208,376) - -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables:
- individual impairment loss (74,206) (30,361) - -
- collective impairment loss - (23,064) - -
Gain on foreign exchange:
- unrealised (725,768) (377,593) (1,413,758) (918,453)
- realised (4,144,350) (850) - -
Rental income from:
- investment properties (1,618,080) (871,900) - -
- office and factory (489,074) (448,111) - -
- coldroom (2,422,871) (1,833,108) - -
- hostel (124,212) (109,100) - -
# For short-term leases with lease term of 12 months or less and for leases of low value assets of less than RM21,000,
the Group has availed the exemption in MFRS 16 not to recognise the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
Instead, payments made for these leases are recognised as expense when incurred.
152
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
28. TAXATION
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Current tax
Malaysia
- current 2,975,218 1,308,502 - -
- over provision in prior financial years (361,732) (1,026,740) - -
Overseas
- current - 169,494 - -
- over provision in prior financial years (31,813) - - -
2,581,673 451,256 - -
Deferred tax
- original and reversal of temporary differences (3,154,580) 4,428,272 - -
- under/(over) provision in prior financial years 2,239,179 (8,353) - -
(915,401) 4,419,919 - -
Total tax expense 1,666,272 4,871,175 - -
Reconciliation of effective tax expense
The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting results multiplied by the
applicable tax rates are as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit before taxation 40,144,010 36,656,041 14,834,778 21,945,818
Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate
of 24% (2021: 24%) 9,634,563 8,797,450 3,560,347 5,266,996
Tax effects in respect of:
Effect of tax rate in foreign jurisdiction - 38,089 - -
Non-deductible expenses 1,465,008 1,137,565 348,931 533,994
Non-taxable income (371,315) (361,336) (339,302) (314,660)
Tax exempt income (90,125) (669,580) (3,569,976) (5,486,330)
Recognition of reinvestment allowance incentive
previously not recognised (4,320,000) - - -
Reinvestment allowance incentive (5,481,838) (2,610,025) - -
Double deduction on qualifying expenditure (1,070,106) (568,345) - -
Deferred tax assets not recognised 840 - - -
Effect of deferred tax assets not recognised 56,206 46,029 - -
Others (2,595) 96,421 - -
(179,362) 5,906,268 - -
(Over)/Under provision:
- current tax (393,545) (1,026,740) - -
- deferred tax 2,239,179 (8,353) - -
1,666,272 4,871,175 - -
153 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
29. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Foreign currency translation gain for foreign operations during the financial year (2,635,233) 1,855,636
Less: Tax expense (55) (35)
Net of tax (2,635,288) 1,855,601
30. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2022 was based on the profit attributable to
owners of the Company of RM38,498,719 (2021: RM31,785,088) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding of 359,956,028 (2021: 359,519,760).
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
As at 31 December 2022, there is no diluted earnings per ordinary share as the Company does not has any dilutive
ordinary shares.
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2021 was based on the profit attributable
to owners of the Company of RM31,785,088 and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
359,915,533 after adjustment for the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to Employees’ Share Option
Scheme (“ESOS”).
31. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Company:
Sen
per share
Total
amount
RM
Date of
payment
2022
Interim 2022 ordinary - single tier 3.0 10,768,982 30 March 2022
2021
Interim 2021 ordinary - single tier 3.0 10,785,593 30 March 2021
In respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2023, the Company declared and paid an interim single tier
dividend of 3.6 sen per ordinary share totalling RM13,021,188 on 31 March 2023.
154
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
32. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are as described in Note 3(t).
The Group’s reportable segments are organised in accordance with the Group entities, which are the Group’s strategic
business units. The strategic business units offer products to different markets and managed separately because they
require different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Executive Officer (the chief
operating decision maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a quarterly basis.
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest and depreciation, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by Chief Executive Officer, who is the Group’s chief operating decision maker.
Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant
in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Segment assets
The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of a segment, as included in the
internal management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer. Segment total assets are used to
measure the return on assets of each segment.
Segment liabilities
Segment liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provide regularly to the
Chief Executive Officer. Hence no disclosure is made on segment liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and
equipment, investment properties and intangible assets other than goodwill.
Manufacturing and trading
2022
RM
2021
RM
Group
Reporting segment profit 74,530,477 75,945,869
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
- revenue from external customers 293,231,119 251,769,749
- inter-company revenue 161,381,152 139,588,262
Not included in the measure of reporting segment profit but provided to Chief
Executive Officer:
- depreciation (19,235,666) (18,552,237)
- finance costs (312,323) (617,277)
- finance income 890,846 957,787
- income tax expense (1,666,272) (4,871,175)
Segment assets
Included in the measure of segment assets are:
- additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred
tax assets 9,677,916 9,773,701
155 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
32. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and other material items:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Profit or loss
Total profit or loss for reportable segments 74,530,477 75,945,869
Elimination of inter-segment profits (15,729,324) (21,078,101)
Depreciation (19,235,666) (18,552,237)
Finance income 890,846 957,787
Finance costs (312,323) (617,277)
Consolidated profit before tax 40,144,010 36,656,041
External
revenue
RM
Depreciation
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Segment
assets
RM
2022
Total reportable segments 454,612,271 (19,235,666) (312,323) 890,846 799,705,404
Elimination of inter-segment
transactions or balances (161,381,152) - - - (338,895,022)
Consolidated 293,231,119 (19,235,666) (312,323) 890,846 460,810,382
2021
Total reportable segments 391,358,011 (18,552,237) (617,277) 957,787 696,950,548
Elimination of inter-segment
transactions or balances (139,588,262) - - - (261,993,381)
Consolidated 251,769,749 (18,552,237) (617,277) 957,787 434,957,167
Geographical segments
The manufacturing of frozen food products is carried out solely in Malaysia and China.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical
location of customers.
Geographical information
The geographical information is shown in Note 23.
Major customer
The Group has one (2021: one) major customer contributing approximately 13% (2021: 12%) revenue of the Group’s total
revenue.
156
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Categories of financial instruments of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Assets
Financial assets at amortised cost
- Other investments - - 122,000,000 122,000,000
- Trade and other receivables 72,547,213 55,949,928 10,656,204 4,081,031
- Cash and cash equivalents 44,121,393 25,695,248 8,213,846 9,776,564
116,668,606 81,645,176 140,870,050 135,857,595
Financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss
- Other investments 2,799,036 2,894,315 - -
- Short-term investments 54,460,269 62,905,337 2,012,087 2,220,257
57,259,305 65,799,652 2,012,087 2,220,257
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
- Loans and borrowings 6,398,772 12,118,561 - -
- Trade and other payables 44,649,288 40,026,539 232,169 372,981
51,048,060 52,145,100 232,169 372,981
(b) Net (losses)/gains arising from financial instruments
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Net (losses)/ gains on:
Financial instruments at fair value through
profit or loss
Other investments
- recognised in profit or loss (95,279) 870,682 - -
Short-term investments
- recognised in profit or loss 890,846 957,787 63,306 57,115
795,567 1,828,469 63,306 57,115
157 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
(a) Credit risk
(b) Liquidity risk
(c) Market risk
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its receivables from
customers.
(i) Receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Normally financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or directors of the Company are obtained, and
credit evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables is credit impaired.
The gross carrying amount of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or in full)
when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that
the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay
the amount subject to write off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could still be subject to
enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from receivables is
represented by the carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
are stated at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular customers that
have been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the
receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due more than 90 days, which are deemed
to have higher credit risk, are monitored individually.
For each receivable, the lifetime Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) is recognised using the probability of default
technique. The inputs used are: (i) the percent chance of default, and (ii) the expected cash shortfalls. The
lifetime ECL is measured at the probability-weighted expected cash shortfalls by reference to the Group’s
past experience, current conditions and forecast of future economic benefits.
158
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period by geographic region
was as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Malaysia 27,814,311 24,276,789
North America 19,921,693 14,955,951
Europe 8,369,442 5,721,146
Rest of Asia 7,564,055 7,742,387
Oceania 2,554,121 2,281,643
Africa 130,807 500,502
66,354,429 55,478,418
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for the
amount due from one customer (2021: one customer) representing 15% (2021: 14%) of total trade receivables
of the Group. The Group does not anticipate the carrying amount recorded at the end of each reporting
period to be significantly different from the value that would eventually be received.
Impairment losses
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period was:
Gross
amount
RM
Individual
impairment
RM
Collective
impairment
RM
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates
RM
Net
amount
RM
Group
2022
Not past due 43,681,223 - (63,558) (2,063) 43,615,602
Past due 1-30 days 10,154,083 - (49,371) (2,254) 10,102,458
Past due 31-90 days 8,167,745 - (98,468) (5,116) 8,064,161
Past due more than 90 days 5,936,200 (1,195,814) (161,691) (6,487) 4,572,208
Total past due 24,258,028 (1,195,814) (309,530) (13,857) 22,738,827
67,939,251 (1,195,814) (373,088) (15,920) 66,354,429
2021
Not past due 42,209,560 - (86,881) (24,692) 42,097,987
Past due 1-30 days 8,347,607 - (36,679) 7,927 8,318,855
Past due 31-90 days 3,511,040 - (23,453) 19,268 3,506,855
Past due more than 90 days 2,015,787 (413,198) (17,520) (30,348) 1,554,721
Total past due 13,874,434 (413,198) (77,652) (3,153) 13,380,431
56,083,994 (413,198) (164,533) (27,845) 55,478,418
159 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses (continued)
For balances which are past due but not impaired, management is monitoring individual balances closely
and is confident of repayment based on subsequent collections after year end past repayment trends of
these customers.
The allowance account is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of
the amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable directly.
The impairment loss as at end of reporting period was:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
At 1 January 605,576 533,722
Impairment loss recognised:
- Individual impairment loss 856,822 78,840
- Collective impairment loss 208,555 23,448
Impairment loss no longer required:
- Individual impairment loss (74,206) (30,361)
- Collective impairment loss - (23,064)
Impairment loss written off on trade receivables:
- Individual impairment loss (67,269) -
Effect of movements in exchange rates 55,344 22,991
At 31 December 1,584,822 605,576
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the reporting
period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statement of
financial position.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risk. Consequently, the Group and the Company are
of the view that the loss allowances is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
(iii) Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company provide unsecured financial guarantees to third parties and banks in respect
of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
160
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(iii) Financial guarantees (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The table below summarised the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group and of the Company as at
the end of the reporting period:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Corporate guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities granted
to subsidiaries, representing the outstanding loan amounts of the
subsidiaries (Note 21) 6,398,772 12,118,561
Corporate guarantees issued in favour of third parties 1,841,067 1,813,536
8,239,839 13,932,097
Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
Corporate guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities granted
to subsidiaries, representing the outstanding loan amounts of the
subsidiaries (Note 21) 6,398,772 12,118,561
(iv) Inter-company advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the
subsidiaries to repay advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position.
Advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.
Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.
Recognition and measurement of impairment losses
Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes that
there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly.
As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ advances when they are
payable, the Company considers the advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay
when demanded. The Company considers a subsidiary’s advances to be credit impaired when:
• the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• the subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; or
• the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advance to the subsidiaries are not
recoverable.
161 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as and
when they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various
payables, corporate guarantees, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by
the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at
the end of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
RM
Contractual
interest rate
RM
Contractual
cash flows
RM
Less than
1 year
RM
1 - 2
years
RM
2022
Group
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings 6,398,772 2.93% - 5.69% 6,440,777 6,440,777 -
Trade and other payables 44,649,288 44,649,288 44,649,288 -
51,048,060 51,090,065 51,090,065 -
Financial guarantees* (Note 34(a)(iii)) - 1,841,067 1,841,067 -
Company
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 232,169 232,169 232,169 -
Financial guarantees* (Note 34(a)(iii)) - 6,398,772 6,398,772 -
Carrying
amount
RM
Contractual
interest rate
RM
Contractual
cash flows
RM
Less than
1 year
RM
1 - 2
years
RM
2021
Group
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings 12,118,561 1.15% - 3.99% 12,325,389 10,182,153 2,143,236
Trade and other payables 40,026,539 40,026,539 40,026,539 -
52,145,100 52,351,928 50,208,692 2,143,236
Financial guarantees* (Note 34(a)(iii)) - 1,813,536 1,813,536 -
Company
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 372,981 372,981 372,981 -
Financial guarantees* (Note 34(a)(iii)) - 12,118,561 12,118,561 -
* As at end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment. Hence, the
financial guarantees have not been recognised. The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is required to be
settled in the event of the triggering event.
162
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other
prices will affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
(i) Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and cash and
cash equivalents that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of
Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United Arab Emirates Dirham (“AED”),
Euro (“EURO”), British Pound Sterling (“GBP”), Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”), Renminbi (“RMB”), Singapore Dollar
(“SGD”), United States Dollar (“USD”) and Japanese Yen (“YEN”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company manage its foreign currency exposure by matching as far as possible receipts
and payments in each individual currency. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency
risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Company enter into forward exchange contracts
in the normal course of business, where appropriate, to manage its exposure against foreign currency
fluctuations on sales and purchase transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional
currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
AED
RM
EURO
RM
GBP
RM
HKD
RM
RMB
RM
SGD
RM
USD
RM
YEN
RM
2022
Group
Trade and other
receivables - - - - 754 1,086,772 1,243,458 -
Cash and cash
equivalents - 29,117 - 267,523 73,248 2,173,338 15,492,775 -
Trade and other
payables - (1) (8,140) - (51,693) (1,228,967) (20,365,699) -
- 29,116 (8,140) 267,523 22,309 2,031,143 (3,629,466) -
Company
Cash and cash
equivalents - - - - - - 1,395,650 -
2021
Group
Trade and other
receivables - 103,306 - - 781 1,358,232 2,251,936 -
Cash and cash
equivalents - 28,918 - - 1,313,385 2,208,158 12,631,882 -
Trade and other
payables (6,363) - (48,330) - (3,815) (1,271,886) (12,170,196) (2,692)
(6,363) 132,224 (48,330) - 1,310,351 2,294,504 2,713,622 (2,692)
Company
Cash and cash
equivalents - - - - - - 9,650,993 -
163 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(i) Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2021: 10%) strengthening of the following currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) at the end
of the reporting period would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown
below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant.
Group
Profit or loss
Company
Profit or loss
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
AED - (484) - -
EURO 2,213 10,049 - -
GBP (619) (3,673) - -
HKD 20,332 - - -
RMB 1,695 99,587 - -
SGD 154,368 174,382 - -
USD (275,839) 206,235 106,069 733,475
YEN - (205) - -
(97,850) 485,891 106,069 733,475
A 10% (2021: 10%) weakening of the above currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia at the end of the reporting
period would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above,
on the basis that all other variables remained constant.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to
changes in interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of changes in cash
flows due to changes in interest rates. Short-term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed
to interest rate risk.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly arises from its short-term funds, fixed
deposits and borrowings and is managed through effective negotiation with financial institutions for best
available rates.
164
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Floating rate instruments
Financial assets 54,460,269 62,905,337 2,012,087 2,220,257
Financial liabilities (6,398,772) (12,118,561) - -
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or
loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
Group
Profit or loss
Company
Profit or loss
100 bp
increase
RM
100 bp
decrease
RM
100 bp
increase
RM
100 bp
decrease
RM
2022
Financial assets 413,898 (413,898) 15,292 (15,292)
Financial liabilities (48,631) 48,631 - -
2021
Financial assets 478,081 (478,081) 16,874 (16,874)
Financial liabilities (92,101) 92,101 - -
A change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown above. This analysis assumes that all other
variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
165 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(iii) Price risk
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of the financial statements will fluctuate because
of changes in market prices (other than currency or interest rate).
The Group and the Company are exposed to equity securities price risk arising from the investments held
by the Group and the Company which are classified on the statements of financial position as fair value
through profit or loss. These securities are listed in Malaysia. The Group and the Company are not exposed
to commodity price risk. To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity, the Group and the
Company diversify their portfolio.
A 5% (2021: 5%) decrease in share price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased profit by
RM139,952 (2021: RM144,716) for quoted investments classified as fair value through profit or loss. A 5% (2021: 5%)
increased in share price would have had equal but opposite effect on equity and profit respectively.
(d) Fair value of financial instruments
(i) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying
amount are a reasonable approximation of fair value
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables,
trade and other payables, and loans and borrowings.
The carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities are reasonable approximation of fair values,
because these are short-term in nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are repriced to
market interest rates on or near to the end of the reporting period.
(ii) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
2022
Group
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 2,799,036 - -
Short-term investments 53,899,555 - -
Company
Financial asset
Short-term investments 1,810,259 - -
2021
Group
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 2,894,315 - -
Short-term investments 62,587,727 - -
Company
Financial asset
Short-term investments 2,061,210 - -
The fair values of these financial assets that are quoted in an active market are determined by reference
to the quoted closing bid price at the end of the reporting period.
166
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
(iii) Policy of transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the event or
change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets
or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are
observable for the financial assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future
principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of the reporting
period. In respect of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of interest is determined
by reference to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For other borrowings, the market rate
of interest is determined by reference to similar borrowing arrangements.
Transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and 2 fair values during the financial year (2021: no transfer in
either directions).
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the financial assets and liabilities.
The following shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as well
as the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Valuation processes applied by the Group and the Company for Level 3 fair value
The Group and the Company use discounted cash flows in respect of the measurement of fair values of
financial instruments. The management has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value
measurements, including Level 3 fair values.
167 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a capital base adequate to safeguard the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
future development of the business. The directors monitor and are determined to maintain an optimal debt-to-equity
ratio that complies with regulatory requirements.
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt
divided by equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings,
trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Loans and borrowings 6,398,772 12,118,561
Trade and other payables 44,649,288 40,026,539
51,048,060 52,145,100
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (98,581,662) (88,600,585)
Net debt (47,533,602) (36,455,485)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company (excluding treasury shares) 398,213,253 368,343,850
Debt-to-equity ratio - -
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note No. 17/2005, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated
shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than 25% of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding treasury shares) and
such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The Company has complied with this requirement.
The Group and the Company are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement.
36. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
2022
RM
2021
RM
Capital expenditure commitments
Property, plant and equipment
Authorised but not contracted for 16,507,000 28,691,000
Contracted but not provided for:
Within one year 2,651,110 3,234,618
168
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
37. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the directors of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year are as follows:
Note
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Executive directors
Fees 340,000 340,000 340,000 340,000
Salaries and bonuses 2,841,884 3,001,333 - -
Defined contribution benefits 330,480 343,357 - -
Benefits-in-kind 49,350 56,850 - -
Meeting allowances (a) 54,000 52,500 54,000 52,500
3,615,714 3,794,040 394,000 392,500
Non-executive directors
Fees 415,000 415,000 415,000 415,000
Meeting allowances (a) 108,000 92,002 108,000 92,002
523,000 507,002 523,000 507,002
4,138,714 4,301,042 917,000 899,502
The number of directors of the Company whose income falls within the following bands are:
Executive directors Non-executive directors
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
RM150,000 and below 1 - 3 3
RM151,001 to RM200,000 - - 1 1
RM200,001 to RM500,000 - 1 - -
RM500,001 to RM1,000,000 2 2 - -
RM1,000,001 and above 1 1 - -
Total 4 4 4 4
(a) Meeting allowances vary from one director to another, depending on the number of committees they sit on and
the number of meetings attended during the financial year.
169 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
38. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
A related party is defined as follows:
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and the Company if that person:
(i) has control or joint control over the Company;
(ii) has significant influence over the Company; or
(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the Company or of a parent of the
Company.
(b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:
(i) the entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary
and fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
(ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member
of a group of which the other entity is a member).
(iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third party and the other entity is an associate of the third party.
(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or entity
related to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to
the Company.
(vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management
personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the Company).
(viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services to
the Company or to the parent of the Company.
The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entity, companies which certain
directors have interest and key management personnel.
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under normal trade terms. The
significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the
transactions below are shown in Notes 15 and 22.
170
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
38. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Group Company
2022
RM
2021
RM
2022
RM
2021
RM
Subsidiaries
Dividends income from investment in subsidiaries - - 10,785,593 19,111,593
Dividends income from other investments - - 4,026,000 3,599,000
Other related party transactions
Companies in which directors of the Company
have interest:
Sales of goods 31,135,263 17,210,636 - -
Companies in which persons related to directors
of the Company have interest:
Sales of goods 1,801,001 1,219,003 - -
Purchase of goods 1,152,599 1,463,691 - -
Rental of office 385,160 331,200 - -
Rental of coldroom - 3,216 - -
Rental of plant and machineries 110,773 110,773 - -
Professional fees - 92,066 - -
Provision of transportation service 70,764 27,164 - -
Plaster ceiling and partition works 11,530 - - -
Key management personnel
Executive directors:
- fees 340,000 340,000 340,000 340,000
- remuneration 2,841,884 3,001,333 - -
- defined contribution plans 330,480 343,357 - -
- benefits-in-kind 49,350 56,850 - -
- meeting allowances 54,000 52,500 54,000 52,500
3,615,714 3,794,040 394,000 392,500
Other key management personnel:
- short-term employee benefits 2,964,670 5,339,809 - -
- defined contribution plans 325,455 582,765 - -
- benefits-in-kind 121,150 13,900 - -
3,411,275 5,936,474 - -
Total compensation paid to key management
personnel 7,026,989 9,730,514 394,000 392,500
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.
171 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Notes to the Financial Statements
As at 31 December 2022
39. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 21 April 2022, the Group has entered into a Sales and Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) with a third party to acquire five
(5) parcels of vacant leasehold industrial lands with a total purchase price of RM50,458,233. Upon execution of the
SPA, the Group paid a total deposit of RM6,218,217 to the third party on 22 April 2022.
On 16 December 2022, the Group and the third party had mutually agreed in writing to terminate the SPA due to the
third party unable to fulfil the terms stipulated in the SPA.
As of reporting date, the deposit remained unpaid and is expected to be collected by end of May 2023.
40. OTHER INFORMATION
(a) The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
(b) The registered office of the Company is located at:
12th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
(c) The principal place of business of the Company is located at:
Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
42920 Pulau Indah
Selangor Darul Ehsan
(d) The financial statements are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia, which is also the Group’s and the Company’s
functional currency.
41. APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 17 April
2023.
172
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
We, the undersigned, being two of the directors of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V))
do hereby state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 104 to 171 are drawn up
in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2022 and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended on that date.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI		 GAN THIAM HOCK
Director		Director
Selangor
17 April 2023
I, LEE FUI MENG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
(Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on
pages 104 to 171 are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Act, 1960.
LEE FUI MENG
(MIA no. 31056)
Subscribed and solemnly declared
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur
in the Federal Territory on 17 April 2023
Before me
Statement by Directors
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
Statutory Declaration
Pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
173 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Kawan Food Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages
104 to 171.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition
Refer to Note 23 - Revenue
Revenue recognition is a
presumed fraud risk as
the Group may be under
pressure by external
parties (i.e. expectations by
shareholders and market
analysts) and internal
parties (i.e. performance
of management). This
may lead to potential
misstatement of revenue.
The details of our work performed are as follows:
• We assessed and evaluated the appropriateness of the design and implementation of
controls over revenue cycle with no exception noted.
• We performed test of operating effectiveness on the relevant controls identified within
the revenue cycle with no exception noted.
• We performed substantive testing to verify revenue transactions to respective sales
invoices, bill of ladings and acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the transfer of
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to customers based on selected samples.
• We verified the credit notes and sales returns issued subsequent to the year-end date to
ascertain whether revenue was recognised in the correct financial period.
• We assessed cut-off procedures implemented by management to verify revenue
transactions pre and post year-end date and agreed the sales invoices, bill of ladings
and acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the transfer of risks and rewards of
ownership of goods and confirm that these transactions were recognised in the correct
financial periods.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
174
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
report and Statement on Risk and Management Internal Controls included in the annual report but does not include the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon, which we obtained prior to the
date of this auditors’ report, and the remaining parts of the annual report, which are expected to be made available to us
after that date.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the remaining parts of the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we
are required to communicate the matter to the directors of the Company and take appropriate actions in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
and of the Company’s internal control.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
175 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
RSM Malaysia PLT		 Yeoh Kian Teck
202206000002 (LLP0030276-LCA) & AF 0768		 03322/08/2023 J
Chartered Accountants		 Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2023
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
176
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
List of Properties
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-
up Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Held under H.S. (D)
No. 135852, PT129351,
Mukim dan Daerah Klang,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 96,
Section 4, Phase 2C,
Selangor Halal-Hub, Pulau Indah,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
99 years
expiring on
24 February
2097
5 years 12 October
2011
63,079.9 sq.
metres/
49,404.82 sq.
metres
18 May 2018 97,998,555
* Held under H.S. (D)
No. 98527, Bandar Shah Alam,
Daerah Petaling, Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 20,
Jalan Pengapit 15/19,
40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 6 August
2074
43 year 28 May
2004
7,337.24 sq.
metres/
6,417.91 sq.
metres
23 May 2007 4,587,475
* Held under H.S. (D) 98490,
P.T. No. 617, Seksyen 16,
Bandar Shah Alam,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 4,
Jalan Lada Hitam 16/12A,
40000 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
99 years
expiring on
20 July 2094
33 years 28 June
1999
4,484 sq.
metres/
3,149.43 sq.
metres
24 September
1990
1,533,226
* Held under H.S. (D) 98500
for P.T. No. 714, Seksyen 16,
Bandar Shah Alam,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 2A,
Persiaran Kemajuan,
Seksyen 16, 40000 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
99 years
expiring on
20 July 2094
33 years 25 May
2005
21,796 sq.
metres/
3,584.91 sq.
metres
7 May 1990 6,314,703
* Parcel No. 2F-41C
with address at 41C-2F,
Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067
PT 59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 16 May
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
39,520
* Parcel No. 2B-41D with
address at 41D-2B,
Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067
PT 59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 29 July
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
36,767
177 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
List of Properties
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-
up Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Parcel No. 2F-31C with address
at 31C-2F, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D)
56062 PT 59169 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 16 May
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
39,520
* Parcel No. 2B-21D with address
at 21D-2B, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56057
PT 59164 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 29 July
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
36,767
* Shop Apartment Parcel No.
B3/3F with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208
Lot No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim
Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 22 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
34,895
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. B4/3F
with address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67207
Lot No. P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 22 years 21
February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
34,895
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D4/3F
with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208
Lot No. P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 22 years 21
February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
34,895
178
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
List of Properties
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-
up Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D3/3F
with address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strara Title H.S. (D) 67207
Lot No. P.T. No. 65652 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 22 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
34,895
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D2/3F
with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208
Lot No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 22 years 21
February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
34,895
** Industrial Land at 13,
Kexing Road North, N
antong Economic & Technology
Development Area (“NETDA”), China
Held under Lot No. 03-10-(001)-338,
Land Registry No. 35.45-92.10
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
50 years
expiring on
25 December
2056
13 years 26
December
2006
40,773.90 sq.
metres/
16,000 sq.
metres
N/A 20,888,191
* Held under Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
** Held under Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.
179 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Analysis on Shareholdings
as per Record of Depositors as at 31 March 2023
Issued Share Capital		 : 362,581,760 Ordinary Shares (including 822,100 Treasury Shares)
Class of Shares		 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights		 : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholder
% of
Shareholder
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Less than 100 352 8.36 6,169 0.00
100 - 1,000 1,514 35.96 743,615 0.21
1,001 - 10,000 1,650 39.19 7,012,212 1.94
10,001 - 100,000 526 12.49 16,349,970 4.52
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 164 3.90 137,963,207 38.14
5% and above of issued shares 4 0.10 199,624,487 55.19
Total 4,210 100.00 361,699,660 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
as per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 31 March 2023
Name of Substantial Shareholders
Direct Indirect
No. of
Shares %(1)
No. of
Shares %(1)
1. Gan Thiam Chai 91,807,548 25.38 10,711,600(2) 2.96
2. Kwan Sok Kay 19,724,405 5.45 10,711,600(2) 2.96
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 6.21 3,010,666(3) 0.83
4. Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha 3,250,000 0.90 73,751,200(4) 20.39
5. VG Trustee Limited
(as Trustee of the Narvee F’dation) 73,751,200 20.39 - -
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 361,699,660 Kawan Shares (excluding 882,100 Treasury Shares).
(2) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 (“Act”), held through his/her children, namely
Gan Ka Hui and Gan Ka Ooi who holds 4,700,300 and 6,011,300 ordinary shares respectively, representing a total of 2.96% in the
shareholdings of the Company.
(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,
Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 444,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam
Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.83% in the shareholdings of the Company.
(4) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Act by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Narvee F’dation.
180
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Register of Directors’ shareholdings as at 31 March 2023
Name of Directors
Direct Indirect
No. of
Shares %(1)
No. of
Shares %(1)
1. Gan Thiam Chai 91,807,548 25.38 10,711,600(2) 2.96
2. Kwan Sok Kay 19,724,405 5.45 10,711,600(2) 2.96
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 6.21 3,010,666(3) 0.83
4. Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 1.11 - -
5. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,637,028 2.11 - -
6. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor - - - -
7. Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud - - - -
8. Eugene Hon Kah Weng - - - -
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 361,699,660 Kawan Shares (excluding 882,100 Treasury Shares).
(2) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his/her children, namely Gan Ka Hui and Gan Ka Ooi
who holds 4,700,300 and 6,011,300 ordinary shares respectively, representing a total of 2.96% in the shareholdings of the Company.
(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,
Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 444,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam
Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.83% in the shareholdings of the Company.
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
as at 31 March 2023
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %
1. Gan Thiam Chai 84,115,282 23.26
2. Maybank Securities Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt AN For VG Trustee Limited (Narvee F’dation)
73,751,200 20.39
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,033,600 6.09
4. Kwan Sok Kay 19,724,405 5.45
5. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Gan Thiam Chai (PB)
7,467,266 2.06
6. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,317,028 2.02
7. Gan Ka Ooi 6,011,300 1.66
8. Kong Poh Yin 5,834,100 1.61
9. Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) 4,707,933 1.30
10. Gan Ka Hui 4,700,300 1.30
11. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Wu Chung Chen
4,626,000 1.28
12. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Strategic Smallcap Fund
4,311,700 1.19
13. Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 1.11
14. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad for Prulink Strategic Fund
3,667,400 1.01
15. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
PB Smallcap Growth Fund
3,376,766 0.93
Analysis on Shareholdings
as per Record of Depositors as at 31 March 2023
181 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
as at 31 March 2023
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %
16. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt AN for UBS AG Singapore (Foreign)
3,262,500 0.90
17. Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha 3,250,000 0.90
18. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Smallcap Fund
3,015,100 0.83
19. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Chen Tsai Tien
2,792,466 0.77
20. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Chiang Peter
2,604,000 0.72
21. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Opportunities Fund
2,475,300 0.68
22. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Growth Balanced Fund
2,417,433 0.67
23. Maybank Securities Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Shah Kamal Kant Zaverchand
2,168,382 0.60
24. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Etiqa Life Insurance Berhad (Prem Equity)
2,112,600 0.58
25. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Yoong Kah Yin
2,070,000 0.57
26. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Wu Chia Lung
2,051,682 0.57
27. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Select Treasures Equity Fund
1,987,400 0.55
28. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Emerging Opportunities Fund
1,871,200 0.52
29. Lam Saw Kuan 1,464,366 0.40
30. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Maybank Trustees Berhad For Dana Makmur Pheim (211901)
1,293,100 0.36
Total 290,493,658 80.28
Analysis on Shareholdings
as per Record of Depositors as at 31 March 2023
182
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or
“the Company”) will be held at Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub,
Fasa 2C, 42920, Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on 21 June 2023, at 10.30 a.m. for the following purposes:
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2022 together with the Reports of the Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.
2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company
of up to RM1,074,000.00 for the period from 22 June 2023 until the conclusion of the
Twentieth AGM.
3. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring under Clause 115(1) of the Constitution
of the Company:
(i) Gan Thiam Hock
(ii) Kwan Sok Kay
(iii) Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
4. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:
5. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions
of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the following related parties (“Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate”):
(i) Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited
(ii) MH Delight Sdn Bhd
(iii) Hot & Roll Sdn Bhd
(Collectively referred to as “Related Parties”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company, to enter and give effect to
the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (hereinafter to
be referred to as “Recurrent Transactions”) with the above Related Parties as stated in
Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023 which are necessary for
the Company’s day-to-day operations subject further to the following:
(i) the Recurrent Transactions contemplated are in the ordinary course of business
and on terms which are not more favourable to Related Parties than those generally
available to the public, and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders;
Please Refer To
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
183 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
(ii) the approval is subject to annual renewal and shall only continue to be in force
until:
(a) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the forthcoming AGM
of the Company at which the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate is
approved, at which time it will lapse unless by a resolution passed at the AGM
the mandate is again renewed;
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after
the date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies
Act 2016 (“Act”) (but shall not extend to such extensions as may be allowed
pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general
meeting,
whichever is the earlier; and
(iii) the disclosure of the breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent
Transactions conducted pursuant to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate in the Annual Report of the Company based on the following information:
(a) the type of Recurrent Transactions entered into; and
(b) the names of the Related Parties involved in each type of the Recurrent
Transactions entered into and their relationship with the Company.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and
things to give full effect to the Recurrent Transactions contemplated and/or authorised
by this resolution, as the Directors of the Company, in their absolute discretion, deem
fit.”
6. Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares.
“THAT pursuant to Section 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby
authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of
the next AGM of the Company upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes
as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit provided that the aggregate
number of shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number
of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at the time of issue,
subject to the Constitution of the Company and approval of all the relevant regulatory
bodies being obtained for such allotment and issue.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to
the existing issued Kawan shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this
Mandate.
AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally
in all respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution
that may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new shares.”
Ordinary Resolution 9
184
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.
“THAT subject to the Act, the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the
approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any), the
Company be and is hereby authorised to utilise an amount not exceeding the audited
retained profits as at 31 December 2022 to purchase such amount of ordinary shares in
the Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority”) as may be determined
by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such
terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of
the Company provided that the aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares of the Company.
THAT an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained profits be allocated by the
Company for the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority.
THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company to decide at
their absolute discretion to either retain the shares so purchased as treasury shares
(as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to cancel the shares so purchased and if
retained as treasury shares, may resell the treasury shares and/or to distribute them as
share dividend and/or subsequently cancel them.
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately upon the
passing of this resolution and will expire at:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, at which time the said authority
will lapse unless by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting of the
Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in a
general meeting;
whichever occurs first, but not so as to prejudice the completion of the purchase(s) by
the Company before the aforesaid expiry date and in any event, in accordance with
the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa Securities and/or any other relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any).
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to take all steps necessary to
implement, complete and do all such acts and things (including executing all such
documents as may be required) as they may consider expedient or necessary to give
effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority as may be agreed or
allowed by any relevant governmental and/or regulatory authority.”
8. Proposed Allocation of Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) Options to Gan Ka Bien.
“THAT subsequent to the approval for the establishment of an ESOS being obtained
at the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) of the Company held on 31 May 2018,
approval be and is hereby given to the Board of Directors of Kawan to authorise the
ESOS Committee, at any time and from time to time throughout the duration of the
ESOS, to offer and grant to Gan Ka Bien, the Executive Director of the Company, Options
to subscribe for such number of new ordinary shares of Kawan (“Kawan Shares”) under
the ESOS PROVIDEDTHAT:-
(i) not more than ten percent (10%) of the new Kawan Shares available under the ESOS
shall be allocated to any individual Eligible Person, who, either singly or collectively
through persons connected with her, holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the
issued share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company;
Ordinary Resolution 10
185 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
(ii) not more than eighty percent (80%) of the Options available under the ESOS shall be
allocated, in aggregate to her, other Executive Directors and senior management
of Kawan and its subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries which are dormant);
(iii) she must not be allowed to participate in the deliberation or discussion of her own
allocation of ESOS Options to be issued to her under the ESOS;
AND subject always to such terms and conditions of the ESOS as may, from time to time,
be modified, varied and/or amended in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws
governing and constituting the ESOS.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered such number of new Kawan
Shares pursuant to the ESOS.
AND THAT the authority be further given to the Company to allot and issue such number
of new Kawan Shares pursuant to the ESOS to Gan Ka Bien from time to time pursuant to
the exercise of such ESOS Options.”
9. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Yeap Chee Keong.
“THAT subsequent to the approval for the establishment of an ESOS being obtained at
the EGM of the Company held on 31 May 2018, approval be and is hereby given to the
Board of Directors of Kawan to authorise the ESOS Committee, at any time and from time
to time throughout the duration of the ESOS, to offer and grant to Yeap Chee Keong, the
Chief Operating Officer and person connected to the Executive Director and substantial
shareholder of the Company, Options to subscribe for such number of new Kawan
Shares under the ESOS PROVIDED THAT:
(i) not more than ten percent (10%) of the new Kawan Shares available under the ESOS
shall be allocated to any individual Eligible Person, who, either singly or collectively
through persons connected with him, holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the
issued share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company;
(ii) not more than eighty percent (80%) of the Options available under the ESOS shall be
allocated, in aggregate to him, other Executive Directors and senior management
of Kawan and its subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries which are dormant);
(iii) he must not be allowed to participate in the deliberation or discussion of his own
allocation of ESOS Options to be issued to him under the ESOS;
AND subject always to such terms and conditions of the ESOS as may, from time to time,
be modified, varied and/or amended in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws
governing and constituting the ESOS.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered such number of new Kawan
Shares pursuant to the ESOS.
AND THAT the authority be further given to the Company to allot and issue such number
of new Kawan Shares pursuant to the ESOS to Yeap Chee Keong from time to time
pursuant to the exercise of such ESOS Options.”
Ordinary Resolution 11
Ordinary Resolution 12
186
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
10. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Meng Hoi.
“THAT subsequent to the approval for the establishment of an ESOS being obtained
at the EGM of the Company held on 31 May 2018, approval be and is hereby given to the
Board of Directors of Kawan to authorise the ESOS Committee, at any time and from
time to time throughout the duration of the ESOS, to offer and grant to Gan Meng Hoi,
the Head of National Sales and person connected to the Executive Director and substantial
shareholder of the Company, Options to subscribe for such number of new Kawan Shares
under the ESOS PROVIDED THAT:
(i) not more than ten percent (10%) of the new Kawan Shares available under the ESOS
shall be allocated to any individual Eligible Person, who, either singly or collectively
through persons connected with him, holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the issued
share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company;
(ii) not more than eighty percent (80%) of the Options available under the ESOS shall be
allocated, in aggregate to him, other Executive Directors and senior management of
Kawan and its subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries which are dormant);
(iii) he must not be allowed to participate in the deliberation or discussion of his own
allocation of ESOS Options to be issued to him under the ESOS;
AND subject always to such terms and conditions of the ESOS as may, from time to time,
be modified, varied and/or amended in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws
governing and constituting the ESOS.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution of
the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of
the shareholders of the Company to be offered such number of new Kawan Shares pursuant
to the ESOS.
AND THAT the authority be further given to the Company to allot and issue such number of
new Kawan Shares pursuant to the ESOS to Gan Meng Hoi from time to time pursuant to the
exercise of such ESOS Options.”
11. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Meng Hoo.
“THAT subsequent to the approval for the establishment of an ESOS being obtained at the
EGM of the Company held on 31 May 2018, approval be and is hereby given to the Board of
Directors of Kawan to authorise the ESOS Committee, at any time and from time to time
throughout the duration of the ESOS, to offer and grant to Gan Meng Hoo, the Senior Sales
Executive and person connected to the Executive Director and substantial shareholder of
the Company, Options to subscribe for such number of new Kawan Shares under the ESOS
PROVIDED THAT:
(i) not more than ten percent (10%) of the new Kawan Shares available under the ESOS
shall be allocated to any individual Eligible Person, who, either singly or collectively
through persons connected with him, holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the issued
share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company;
(ii) not more than eighty percent (80%) of the Options available under the ESOS shall be
allocated, in aggregate to him, other Executive Directors and senior management of
Kawan and its subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries which are dormant);
(iii) he must not be allowed to participate in the deliberation or discussion of his own
allocation of ESOS Options to be issued to him under the ESOS;
AND subject always to such terms and conditions of the ESOS as may, from time to time,
be modified, varied and/or amended in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws
governing and constituting the ESOS.
Ordinary Resolution 13
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
187 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution of the
Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of the
shareholders of the Company to be offered such number of new Kawan Shares pursuant to
the ESOS.
AND THAT the authority be further given to the Company to allot and issue such number of
new Kawan Shares pursuant to the ESOS to Gan Meng Hoo from time to time pursuant to the
exercise of such ESOS Options.”
12. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Thiam Chuan.
“THAT subsequent to the approval for the establishment of an ESOS being obtained at the EGM
of the Company held on 31 May 2018, approval be and is hereby given to the Board of Directors
of Kawan to authorise the ESOS Committee, at any time and from time to time throughout
the duration of the ESOS, to offer and grant to Gan Thiam Chuan, the Development Chef and
person connected to the Executive Director and substantial shareholder of the Company,
Options to subscribe for such number of new Kawan Shares under the ESOS PROVIDED THAT:
(i) not more than ten percent (10%) of the new Kawan Shares available under the ESOS
shall be allocated to any individual Eligible Person, who, either singly or collectively
through persons connected with him, holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the issued
share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company;
(ii) not more than eighty percent (80%) of the Options available under the ESOS shall be
allocated, in aggregate to him, other Executive Directors and senior management of
Kawan and its subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries which are dormant);
(iii) he must not be allowed to participate in the deliberation or discussion of his own
allocation of ESOS Options to be issued to him under the ESOS;
AND subject always to such terms and conditions of the ESOS as may, from time to time,
be modified, varied and/or amended in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws
governing and constituting the ESOS.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution of
the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of
the shareholders of the Company to be offered such number of new Kawan Shares pursuant
to the ESOS.
AND THAT the authority be further given to the Company to allot and issue such number of
new Kawan Shares pursuant to the ESOS to Gan Thiam Chuan from time to time pursuant to
the exercise of such ESOS Options.”
13. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAI YIT CHAN (MAICSA 7009143)
SSM PC No.: 202008001023
TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513)
SSM PC No.: 202008001075
Company Secretaries
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Date: 28 April 2023
Ordinary Resolution 14
Ordinary Resolution 15
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
188
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
EXPLANATORY NOTES:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements
Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for
voting.
2. Ordinary Resolutions 2, 3 & 4 - Re-election of Directors
Gan Thiam Hock, Kwan Sok Kay and Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud who retire in accordance with Clause 115(1) of the
Constitution (collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”), being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Retiring Directors to stand for re-election at this 19th AGM and in
line with Practice 5.1 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021, the Nominating Committee (“NC”) has
reviewed and assessed each of the Retiring Directors from the annual assessment and evaluation of the Board, Board
Committees, Independent Directors and individual Directors for the financial year under review.
The NC had recommended that, the re-election of the Retiring Directors to be based on the following:
(i) satisfactory performance and have met Board’s expectation in discharging their duties and responsibilities with
due care and in a commendable manner;
(ii) met the fit and proper criteria in discharging their roles as directors of the Company;
(iii) level of independence demonstrated by the independent director; and
(iv) their ability to act in the best interest of the Company in decision-making and developing the Group’s business
strategies.
The Board had endorsed the recommendation of the NC on the re-election of the Retiring Directors.
The profiles of the Retiring Directors are set out in the Board of Directors’ Profile of the Annual Report 2022 of the
Company.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 - Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 proposed, if passed, will empower the Directors from the date of the 19th AGM, to
deal with the related party transactions involving recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are
necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations. These recurrent related party transactions are in the ordinary
course of business and are on terms not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the
public and not to the detriment of the minority shareholders.
This authority unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company and subject
always to provision (ii) of the resolution.
For further information on Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023
accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
189 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
4. Ordinary Resolution 9 - Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares
The Ordinary Resolution 9 proposed under item 6 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general
mandate for issuance of shares by the Company under Section 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will
provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company
up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the
working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved
in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority,
unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM.
At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility
permitted to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities
without making a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the
general mandate is sought, the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.
The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the
previous AGM.
5. Ordinary Resolution 10 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 10, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to take all such steps
as are necessary or expedient to implement, finalise, complete and/or to effect the purchase(s) of shares by the
Company as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company. The authority will, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next AGM
of the Company or the expiry of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required by law to be held.
For further information on Ordinary Resolution 10, please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 28 April 2023
accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
6. Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15 - Proposed Allocations of ESOS Options to Gan Ka Bien, Yeap Chee Keong,
Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Thiam Chuan (“Proposed Allocations”)
The proposed Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15 are made pursuant to Kawan ESOS which had been approved by
the shareholders of the Company at the EGM held on 31 May 2018. The Company had on 20 March 2023 announced
that Board has resolved to extend its existing ESOS, which is expiring on 1 October 2023, for another five (5) years from
2 October 2023 to 1 October 2028, in accordance with Clause 5.3 of the ESOS By-Laws.
The Proposed Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15 to approve the Proposed Allocations, subject always to such terms
and conditions and/or any adjustments and/or variations which may be made in accordance with the provisions of
the ESOS By-Laws.
Gan Ka Bien (daughter of Gan Thiam Chai and Kwan Sok Kay), Yeap Chee Keong (son-in-law of Gan Thiam Chai and
Kwan Sok Kay), Gan Meng Hoi and Gan Meng Hoo (both are the sons of Gan Thiam Hock), and Gan Thiam Chuan
(brother of Gan Thiam Chai, Gan Thiam Hock and brother-in-law of Kwan Sok Kay) are eligible to participate in the
ESOS, and are therefore deemed interested to the extent of their Proposed Allocations under the ESOS. Accordingly,
they have declared their interest in the Proposed Allocations and have abstained and will continue to abstain from
voting in respect of their direct and/or indirect shareholdings in the Company, if any, on the resolution pertaining to
the Proposed Allocations to be tabled at this AGM. Gan Ka Bien, Yeap Chee Keong, Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Hoo and
Gan Thiam Chuan shall also ensure that persons connected with them will abstain from voting in respect of their
direct and/or indirect shareholdings in the Company, if any, on the resolution approving the Proposed Allocations to
be tabled at this AGM.
Save as disclosed above, none of the other Directors, major shareholders and/or persons connected to them have any
interest, whether direct or indirect, in the Proposed Allocations.
190
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Notice of the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 13 June 2023. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s
office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof.
Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement. Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to
Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.
6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 19 June 2023 at 10.30 a.m.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should
be executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
incorporated.
10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out in the notice of
any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/
or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s
personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its
agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and
compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof),
and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines
(collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect
of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
191 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Administrative Details
For the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
Day and Date : Wednesday, 21 June 2023
Time : 10.30 a.m.
Meeting Venue : Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub,
		 Fasa 2C, 42920, Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Dear Valued Shareholders,
1. SAFETY MEASURES IN LIGHT OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
• In transition to the endemic phase of Covid-19 and to safeguard the health and safety of shareholders, proxies
and invited guests who will be attending the 19th AGM in person, are advised to sanitise their hands and wear a
face mask before and throughout the AGM.
2. REGISTRATION
• Registration will start at 9.30 a.m. at the Meeting Venue and will end at a time directed by the Chairman of the
AGM.
• Please produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) at the registration counter for verification and
registration.
• Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
• Please note that no person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person even with the original MyKad/
Passport of that person.
• Upon completion of the registration process, you will be given an identification barcode wristband to enter the
meeting hall. Please be reminded that there will be no replacement in the event that you lose or misplace the
barcode wristband.
• Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
• Please note that you will not be allowed to enter the meeting hall without wearing the barcode wristband.
• The registration counter will handle only verification of identity and registration. If you have any enquiries, please
proceed to the Help Desk.
3. HELP DESK
• Please proceed to the Help Desk located in front of the Meeting Venue entrance for any clarification or enquiries.
• The Help Desk will also handle the revocation of proxy appointments.
4. ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AGM
• Only members whose names appear on the Register of Members or General Meeting Record of Depositors as at
13 June 2023 will be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote
on his/her behalf.
192
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Administrative Details
For the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
5. ANNUAL REPORT 2022
• The Company’s Annual Report 2022 is available at the websites of the Company, https://kawanfood.com/ and
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, www.bursamalaysia.com.
• Printed copies will be available for collection on a first-come, first-served basis at the registration counter on the
day of the AGM.
• If you wish to request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2022 prior to the AGM, please forward your request
by completing the Request Form provided. However, we hope you would consider the environmental and
sustainability concerns, and refrain from requesting a printed copy of the Annual Report 2022.
6. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY, CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
• A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or
in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy
may but need not be a member of the Company.
• A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to exercise all or any of his/her rights to
attend, speak and vote at the same AGM on his/her behalf. If you are unable to attend the AGM and wish to
appoint a proxy/ attorney/ authorized representative to vote on your behalf, please submit your proxy form in
accordance with the notes and instructions stated in the notice of AGM.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
• You may submit your original proxy form to the office of the Share Registrar of our Company, Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com, not less than
forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
• The proxy form may also be lodged electronically via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment
via BSIP.
APPOINTMENT OF CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
• For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL
certificate of appointment of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed in the following
manner:
(a) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(b) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the
corporate member is incorporated.
• You may write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of member, CDS account
number accompanied with the certificate of appointment of corporate representative or proxy form (as the case
may be) to submit the request latest by 19 June 2023 at 10.30 a.m.
• Please provide a copy of the corporate representative’s or proxy’s NRIC (front and back) or passport, as well as
his/her email address.
193 KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Other
Information
Financial
Statements
Administrative Details
For the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
Table 1 – Proxy Appointment via BSIP:
Step 1 –
Register Online with BSIP
(for first-time registration only)
Note: If you have already signed up with BSIP, you are not required to register again.
You may proceed to Step 2.
• Access the website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
• Click “Register” to sign up as a user.
• Complete registration with all the required information. Upload and attach a softcopy
of your Identity Card (“NRIC”) (front and back) or Passport. Click “Register”.
• You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on
“Verify Email Address” from the email received to continue with the registration.
• Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP Online for
verification of your mobile number.
• Click on “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile
number. You will need to enter the OTP code and click “Enter” to complete the
process.
• Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be
pending for final verification.
• An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one (1)
business day. Subsequently, you can log in at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
with the email address and password filled up by you during the registration to
proceed.
Step 2 –
Appointment of Proxy
For Individual and Corporate holders
• Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password
from Step 1 above.
• Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “Kawan Food Berhad
Nineteenth (19th) Annual General Meeting” and click “Enter”.
• Click “Submit eProxy form”.
• For Corporate holders, please select the companies (if you are representing more
than 1 company).
• Enter your CDS account number and the number of shares held.
• Select your proxy — either the Chairman of the meeting or an individual named
proxy(ies).
• Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions and click “Next”.
• Enter the particulars of your proxy(ies) and click “Next”.
• Indicate your voting instructions — FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN. If you wish to have
your proxy(ies) to act upon his/her discretion, please indicate DISCRETIONARY.
• Review and confirm your proxy appointment. Click “Apply”. Download or print the
eProxy form as an acknowledgement.
For Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
• Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password
from Step 1 above.
• Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “Kawan Food Berhad
Nineteenth (19th) Annual General Meeting” and click “Enter”.
• Click “Submit eProxy form”.
• Select the nominee(s)/company(ies) that you represent.
• Download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Prepare the file for appointment of proxy(ies) by inserting the required data.
• Upload the duly completed proxy appointment file
• Review and confirm your proxy appointment.
• Download or print the eProxy form as an acknowledgement.
* If you wish to attend the AGM yourself, please do not submit any proxy form. You will not be allowed to attend the AGM together with a
proxy appointed by you.
* If you have submitted your proxy form prior to the AGM and subsequently decided to attend the AGM yourself, please proceed to the
Help Desk located in front of the Meeting Venue entrance to revoke the appointment of your proxy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
194
Administrative Details
For the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
7. POLL VOTING
• The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. All resolutions set out in the Notice of the 19th AGM will be put to a vote by way
of poll. A Poll Administrator will be appointed to conduct the polling process and Independent Scrutineers will be
appointed to verify the results of the poll.
8. DOOR GIFT/FOOD VOUCHER
• There will be distribution of voucher or door gift to members/proxies who participate in the AGM.
9. ENQUIRIES
• If you have any queries prior to the AGM, please contact Boardroom during office hours on Mondays to Fridays
from 9.00 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. (except on public holidays):
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Tel		 : +603-7890 4700
Fax		 : +603-7890 4670
Email : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
Proxy Form
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
http://www.kawanfood.com
Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of ordinary shares held CDS account no. of holder
I/We, (name of shareholder as per NRIC/Passport, in capital letters)
NRIC No./ Passport No./Company No. of
(full address)
being a *member/members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD hereby appoint(s):-
Full Name NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address Contact No.
* and/ or (delete as appropriate)
Full Name NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address Contact No.
or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to attend and vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at
the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“19th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the Company”) to be held at
Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C, 42920, Pulau Indah,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Wednesday, 21 June 2023 at 10.30 a.m. or any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy/proxies is/are to vote as indicated below.
Item
No.
Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 together with the Reports of the
Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.
Resolutions For Against
2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefit payable to the Directors of the Company of up to
RM1,074,000.00 for the period from 22 June 2023 until the conclusion of the Twentieth AGM.
Ordinary
Resolution 1
3. To re-elect Gan Thiam Hock who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 2
4. To re-elect Kwan Sok Kay who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 3
5. To re-elect Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the
Company’s Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 4
6. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration.
Ordinary
Resolution 5
Special Business
7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited.
Ordinary
Resolution 6
8. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with MH Delight Sdn Bhd.
Ordinary
Resolution 7
9. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with Hot & Roll Sdn Bhd.
Ordinary
Resolution 8
10. Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to allot and
issue shares.
Ordinary
Resolution 9
11. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares. Ordinary
Resolution 10
12. Proposed Allocation of Employees' Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) Options to Gan Ka Bien. Ordinary
Resolution 11
13. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Yeap Chee Keong. Ordinary
Resolution 12
14. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Meng Hoi. Ordinary
Resolution 13
15. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Meng Hoo. Ordinary
Resolution 14
16. Proposed Allocation of ESOS Options to Gan Thiam Chuan. Ordinary
Resolution 15
(Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate box against the resolutions on how you wish your proxy to vote. The proxy is to vote on the
resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting as you have indicated. If no specific instruction as to voting is given, this form will be taken to
authorise the proxy to vote at his/her discretion.)
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
* if you wish to appoint other person(s) to be your proxy/proxies, kindly delete the words “the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him/her”
and insert the name(s) of the person(s) desired.
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Number of shares held:
Date:
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 13 June 2023. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s office,
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement.
Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.
6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 19 June 2023 at 10.30 a.m.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
incorporated.
10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out in the notice of
any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal Data Privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and /or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data
privacy terms set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 28 April 2023.
For appointment of two proxies, percentage of
shareholdings to be represented by the proxies:
No. of shares Percentage
Proxy 1 %
Proxy 2 %
Total 100%
Fold This Flap For Sealing
2nd Fold Here
1st Fold Here
AFFIX
STAMP
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
200401001942 (640445-V)
Lot 12935, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19,
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah Selangor Halal Hub,
Fasa 2C 42920 Pulau Indah,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
Tel : +603 3099 1188 | Fax : +603 3099 1028 | Sales & Marketing : +603 5511 8388 | Email : info@kawanfood.com
WWW.KAWANFOOD.COM
