54
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
BOARD AT
2 1
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
55
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
1
Board
GAN KA BIEN
Executive Director
3
Board
ABDUL RAZAK BIN SHAKOR
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
7
Board
GAN MENG HOI, DEREK
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
10
Board
NEEL NARESH NAGRECHA
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
11
Board
GAN KA HUI
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
9
Board
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
4
Board RC
AC NC
5 EUGENE HON KAH WENG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board RC
AC NC
GAN KA OOI, AMY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
8
Board
Board Chairman Member
Legend:
6 NOOR ALINA BINTI MOHAMAD FAIZ
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board NC
AC RC
A GLANCE
The Board, under the leadership of the Chairman, is responsible
for determining the overall strategy of the Group and providing
oversight of the senior management.
GAN THIAM CHAI
Chairman Emeritus and Acting
Group Managing Director
2
Board
56
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim (“Mr. David Lim”) was appointed
to the Board on 21 October 2015. He was the Chairman of the
Audit Committee, a member of Remuneration Committee and
Nominating Committee of the Company. On 16 October 2024, he
was re-designated from Independent Non-Executive Director to
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, and
ceased as Chairman of Audit Committee, member of Nominating
Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Mr. David Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics
from the University of Leeds in 1978 and subsequently joined Peat
Marwick Mitchell (now known as KPMG) in the United Kingdom
(“UK”) in 1978. He qualified as a member of the Institute of Taxation,
UK in 1981 and as a Chartered Accountant in England and Wales
in 1982. He returned to Malaysia in 1982 to continue his service
with KPMG, and was admitted as a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) and the Malaysian Association
of Certified Public Accountants (now known as the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”)) in 1982 and
1984 respectively.
Mr. David Lim had an extensive career serving as an Auditor in
KPMG, spanning thirty-three (33) years. During his career with
KPMG, he was admitted as Partner of the firm in 1990 and served
in the Management Committee of the firm from 1997 to 2001 and
in KPMG’s Partnership Supervisory Council from 2002 to 2010. He
was also the Asian Anchor Practice representative for Marketing
from 2000 to 2001, in which role he gained extensive and insightful
knowledge from KPMG Global counterparts worldwide.
In 2006, he was tasked to start up the Audit Committee Institute,
Malaysia, which is a virtual worldwide initiative sponsored by KPMG
to assist independent directors in enhancing their awareness
and ability to implement effective board processes. Mr. David Lim
actively served as an examiner for Company Law examinations
conducted by the MICPA for over a period of ten (10) years. He
was the Chairman of the MICPA Code of Ethics Committee and a
member of the MIA Code of Ethics Committee, both from 2002 to
2004. He retired from KPMG in 2011.
In 2013, he was appointed as a Council member of The Institute
of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales (“ICAEW”). This
was the first time that ICAEW, in its illustrious history had granted
Malaysia a seat in the Council. The position was for a term of two
(2) years till 2015. He was reappointed for a further two terms till
March 2019 (being the maximum permitted tenure).
Mr. David Lim serves on the Board of several public listed
companies, including Malaysian Rating Corporation Berhad as
an Independent Non-Executive Director, having been recently
appointed in March 2025. He is also the Independent Non-
Executive Chairman of TSA Group Berhad and Press Metal
Aluminium Holdings Berhad. Additionally, he holds directorships
in Public Investment Bank Berhad and Rockwills Trustee Berhad,
where he serves as the Independent Non-Executive Chairman.
Mr. David Lim does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He attended
all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended
31 December 2024.
Board Meeting 7/7
LIM HUN SOON@
DAVID LIM
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Date of Appointment:
21 October 2015
69
57
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Gan Thiam Chai (“Mr. T.C. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on
1 June 2005 and was the Executive Chairman since 1 March 2010.
Following his retirement from the Board on 16 October 2024, he
was bestowed the title of Chairman Emeritus and stayed on as
Adviser to provide guidance to support the continued growth of
Kawan Food Berhad and its Group of Companies. Subsequently,
he was appointed as Acting Group Managing Director of the
Company on 9 April 2025 to facilitate leadership continuity. He
will assume this role while continuing as Chairman Emeritus of
the Company.
Mr. T.C. Gan has accumulated more than 30 years of experience
in the food processing industry. After leaving school in 1971, he
joined Behn Meyer Industries Sdn. Bhd. as a Technical Assistant.
He left the company in 1976 and set up Kian Guan Trading Co.
in 1977. In 1984, he founded Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
(“KFM”). The growth of KFM from small business to an award-
winning enterprise is attributable to his efforts.
His business acumen and sound technical knowledge in the food
industry is an invaluable asset to the Group. He is responsible
for the overall business planning and development, product
research and development, transformation and modernisation
of food production process through automation, formulation of
companies’ strategic plans and policies.
Mr. T.C. Gan is the husband of Madam Kwan Sok Kay and the
brother of Mr. Gan Thiam Hock. Both have served as Executive
Directors in the past and remain substantial shareholders of
the Company. Mr. T.C. Gan is the father of Ms. Gan Ka Bien, the
Executive Director, and Ms. Gan Ka Hui and Ms. Gan Ka Ooi, the
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
He does not hold any directorship in other public companies or
listed issuers. He attended all five (5) Board Meetings until his
retirement on 16 October 2024.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
Board Meeting
GAN THIAM CHAI
Chairman Emeritus And Acting Group
Managing Director
Date of Appointment:
9 April 2025
71
5/5
58
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Gan Ka Bien (“Ms. K.B. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on
24 November 2020. She has over 15 years of experience in
marketing.
Ms. K.B. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Business from the
University of Technology in Sydney, Australia in 2002. She also
obtained a Diploma in Marketing Research from Marketing
Research Society of Australia. In 2017, she becomes a licensed
Master Practitioner of Neuro-Linguistic Programming. In 2022,
she was recognized as a Certified Sustainability Reporting
Specialist (CSRS) by the Institute of Certified Sustainability
Practitioners.
In 2003, Ms. K.B. Gan started her career as a Business Manager
with Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd (“KFM”). She was
involved in promoting products to overseas and domestic
markets. She was subsequently promoted as a Senior Business
Manager of KFM in 2012, during which she has success in
launching multiple products.
In 2019, Ms. K.B. Gan was appointed as the Head of Marketing,
managing the Group’s entire marketing initiatives in creating a
differentiated Kawan brand for all of the Group’s products with
long term strategies. In 2021, she is entrusted with overseeing
the Group’s sustainability strategy and initiatives, ensuring
that sustainability commitments are effectively executed,
monitored, and aligned with the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals and the expectations of stakeholders. In
2023, she took on the leadership of Quality Assurance, Research
& Development, and Laboratory operations, overseeing product
innovation and quality standards to support the Group’s growth
and commitment to excellence in the frozen food industry.
Ms. K.B. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. K.B. Gan
is the sister of Ms. Gan Ka Hui and Ms. Gan Ka Ooi, the Non-
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Ms. K.B. Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
companies nor listed issuers. She attended six (6) out of seven
(7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
December 2024.
Board Meeting 6/7
GAN KA BIEN
Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
24 November 2020
44
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
59
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud (Dr. Nik) was appointed to the Board
on 2 January 2017. He was appointed by the Board as Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 April 2019. He is also
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member
of both the Audit Committee and Nominating Committee of the
Company.
Dr. Nik graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science (Hons)
from Universiti Malaya in 1975. Subsequently, he obtained
a Postgraduate Diploma in Food Science from the Catholic
University of Leuven, Belgium in 1976, a Master of Science in Food
Science & Microbiology from University of Strathclyde, Scotland
in 1978, a PhD in Food Science from University of London, United
Kingdom in 1983 and a Master of Business Administration from
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (“UKM”) in 1987.
He began his career as a lecturer in 1978 at UKM, on various
subjects including food quality and safety systems, food
microbiology, food analysis, new product development, food
legislation and operations management, biotechnology
management and entrepreneurship in science and technology,
at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Since 1983, he
has conducted workshops for numerous food companies and
government agencies on food technology and industry-related
topics. His industry experience includes holding positions in food
companies. He served as Managing Director of UKM Holdings Sdn
Bhd from 2006 to 2014.
Dr. Nik had been a member of various committees, including
the National HACCP and Audit Committee, Technical Advisory
Committee on Malaysian Food Regulations, 1985, Technical
Committee of the National Food Safety Council, Malaysia, Member
of National Food Safety and Nutrition Council, Malaysia, National
Codex Alimentarius Committee, Malaysian Standards (MS) on
Coffee, Beverages, Flour, Starches and Food Safety, and Industrial
Standard of Food and Food Products. Currently, he chairs the
drafting of the revised MS on coffee and coffee products.
Dr. Nik was the President of the Malaysian Institute of Food
Technology for 18 years until 2014 and was also the former
President of the Federation of Institute Food Science and
Technology, Association of South East Asian Nations (FIFSTA).
He is a Fellow of the International Academy of Food Science and
Technology and a member of the IUFoST Codex Committee.
He is a member of the Board of Governors of Kolej Yayasan UEM
and the Board of Trustees of the Renong Group Scholarship Trust
Fund.
Dr. Nik does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company. He does not hold
any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers. He
attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2024.
Board Meeting 7/7
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN
NIK DAUD
Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director
Date of Appointment:
2 January 2017
74
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
60
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Eugene Hon Kah Weng (“Mr. Eugene”) was appointed to the
Board on 22 November 2018. He was re-designated from a
member to Chairman of the Audit Committee on 16 October
2024 and from Chairman to a member of the Nominating
Committee on 24 February 2025. He is also a member of
Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Mr. Eugene started his training in accountancy in 1979 with a
reputable accounting firm and qualified as a Certified Public
Accountant in 1985 with the Malaysian Association of Certified
Public Accountants (now renamed as the Malaysian Institute
of Certified Public Accountants). He was also admitted into the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants as a Chartered Accountant.
Mr. Eugene left the accountancy profession in 1991 and
assumed a senior position with a large financial services group
covering businesses of merchant banking, finance, insurance,
leasing, money broking and consumer financing. In 2011, he
joined the Central Bank as Finance Director. While with these
organisations, he gained extensive experience in management,
finance, risk management and corporate governance. At the
Central Bank, Mr. Eugene acquired invaluable leadership skills
and gained extensive experience in corporate governance and
risk management relating to central banking operations.
Over the years, Mr. Eugene held key management positions,
was a key member of various group committees and also
served as a nominee director on the boards of various group
companies of the financial services group. At the Central Bank,
Mr. Eugene was a key member of the financial risk management
committee, crisis management committee and served on the
board of trustees for the trust funds of the Bank.
Mr. Eugene sits on the board of Affin Hwang Investment Bank
Berhad as an Independent Non-Executive Director since 1
March 2021.
Mr. Eugene does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He
attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2024.
Board Meeting 7/7
EUGENE HON
KAH WENG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
22 November 2018
66
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
61
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz (“Pn. Noor Alina”) was appointed
to the Board on 1 October 2024. She is also a member of the
Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominating
Committee of the Company. On 24 February 2025, she was
re-designated from a member to the Chairperson of the
Nominating Committee.
Pn. Noor Alina is a lawyer by profession and read law at the
University of Leicester, United Kingdom. She is a member
of the Middle Temple and was called to the Bar of England
and Wales in 1998. Upon being called to the Malaysian Bar
in 1999, she began her legal career with Messrs Lee, Perara &
Tan, specialising mainly in Corporate Law. She left the firm
in 2009 and worked as in-house counsel between 2010 and
2015, where she was the Legal & Secretarial Group General
Manager for a public listed company and subsequently as
Head of Department of the legal and secretarial department of
a large non-public listed company. In 2016, she provided legal
and secretarial consultancy services for various companies
before resuming practise in 2017 as the sole proprietor of the
Chambers of Noor Alina Faiz. In 2021, she returned to Messrs Lee,
Perara & Tan as a Partner.
Pn. Noor Alina sits on the board of several public listed
companies, namely Press Metal Aluminium Holdings, PMB
Technology Berhad and Unisem (M) Berhad.
Pn. Noor Alina does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. She
attended two (2) out of three (3) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2024 since her appointment
on 1 October 2024.
Board Meeting
NOOR ALINA BINTI
MOHAMAD FAIZ
Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
1 October 2024
50
2/3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
62
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor (“En. Abdul Razak”) was appointed to
the Board on 16 August 2016.
En. Abdul Razak attended Institut Teknologi MARA, Malaysia
(now known as Universiti Teknologi MARA), majoring in
Insurance. He obtained a Certificate from Lloyd’s of London,
Chartered Insurance Institute (Cert. CII), United Kingdom (“UK”)
and a Certificate from the Institute of Risk Management (Cert.
IRM), UK. He is also a Fellow of the Asian Insurance Institute
(FAII).
He has forty-five (45) years of experience in risk management,
insurance and the financial services sector, both in Malaysia
and internationally. He has held key regional management
positions in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and North Africa for
multinational and international organisations.
Currently, En. Abdul Razak is the Founder and Managing Director
of Esperanza Management Advisors Sdn Bhd, a specialist
risk management consulting firm; Chairman of Sentinel
Insurance Brokers Sdn Bhd, a Bank Negara-licenced insurance,
reinsurance and takaful insurance broking company; Executive
Director of Heron Talent Management, a training firm offering
the Chartered Insurance Institute UK qualification courses and
an independent non-executive director of Medinique Sdn. Bhd.,
a company which owned and operates numerous dialysis
centres throughout Peninsular Malaysia under the brand name
of Pusat Harmoni Hemodialisis.
En. Abdul Razak does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He does
not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed
issuers. He attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during
the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
Board Meeting 7/7
ABDUL RAZAK BIN
SHAKOR
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
16 August 2016
67
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
63
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Gan Ka Ooi (“Ms. Amy Gan”) was appointed to the Board on 16
October 2024.
Ms. Amy Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons) in
Food Science & Technology from The University of New South
Wales in 2008. Subsequently, she obtained Master of Nutrition
& Dietetics from The University of Sydney in 2010. She attended
Chief Strategy Officer Programme at the National University
of Singapore Business School in 2023. She is an Accredited
Practicing Dietitian by Dietitian Australia.
Ms. Amy Gan began her career in 2011 as a Research Technologist
at George Weston Foods Ltd., where she coordinated cereal
applications development and contributed to the industry’s
wheat quality analysis database. In the same year, she
worked part-time as a Private Practice Dietitian in Sydney,
helping patients manage chronic diseases like diabetes and
obesity through nutrition assessment and consultations. She
also conducted menu assessments and redevelopment for
aged care facilities and organised community health talks to
promote healthy eating.
In 2012, Ms. Amy Gan joined KFM as Research & Development
Manager, leading new product development projects, including
the first of its kind healthier choice Low GI Indian Flat Breads, and
improving production processes for food safety compliance.
In 2017, Ms. Amy Gan took on the role of Analytical Laboratory
Manager; where she designed and commissioned an ISO/IEC
17025 accredited analytical laboratory to meet Kawan Food’s
internal analytical needs.
Since 2020, Ms. Amy Gan served as the Operations &
Compliance Manager at Food Valley Sdn. Bhd., enhancing
operational efficiency and achieving ISO 22000 certification.
She was appointed as Director at Food Valley Sdn. Bhd. in year
2023.
Currently, Ms. Amy Gan is the Head of Research & Development
of Kawan Food. She focuses on driving product innovation and
food safety.
Ms. Amy Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. Amy Gan
is the sister of Ms. K.B. Gan, the Executive Director and Ms. Gan
Ka Hui, the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company. She is the spouse of Mr. Andy Yeap Chee Keong, the
Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
Ms. Amy Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
companies nor listed issuers. She attended one (1) out of two
(2) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
December 2024 since her appointment on 16 October 2024.
Board Meeting
GAN KA OOI, AMY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
16 October 2024
38
1/2
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
64
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Gan Ka Hui (“Ms. K.H. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on 1
October 2024.
Ms. K.H. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons)
in Food Science from The University of Nottingham, United
Kingdom, in 2007. She also attended Chief Strategy Officer
Programme at the National University of Singapore Business
School in 2023.
Ms. K.H. Gan began her career as a Quality Assurance and
Quality Control Executive at Safe Food Corporation (M) Sdn
Bhd, where she played a crucial role in maintaining high
product standards and achieving key certifications. Her early
experiences laid the foundation for her subsequent roles
in marketing and business development at KFM, where she
helped grow sales pipelines and led multiregional marketing
strategies.
Since 2018, Ms. K.H. Gan has served as the Managing Director
of Food Valley Sdn Bhd. Under her leadership, the company
underwent a successful business transformation and achieved
remarkable growth. She led the company to ISO 22000:2018
certification within nine months and established a Health
& Safety Team to promote best practices. By enhancing
production processes, she significantly reduced customer
complaints and increased production capacity.
Her strategic vision has driven digitalization initiatives, including
cloud-based IT infrastructure and ERP implementation, which
have greatly improved operational efficiency.
Ms. K.H. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. K.H.
Gan is the sister of Ms. K.B. Gan, the Executive Director and
Ms. Amy Gan, the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of
the Company.
Ms. K.H. Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
companies nor listed issuers. She attended all three (3) Board
Meetings held during the financial year ended 31 December
2024 since her appointment on 1 October 2024.
Board Meeting
GAN KA HUI
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
1 October 2024
40
3/3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
65
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Gan Meng Hoi (“Mr. Derek”) was appointed to the Board on 1
October 2024.
Mr. Derek graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in
Accounting and Finance from Sunway University in affiliation
with Lancaster University in 2013. He obtained professional
qualification in Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
in 2017 and was admitted as fellow member since 2022.
Mr. Derek began his career as an auditor at Ernst & Young PLT
where he obtained experience in audit, financial statement
preparation, data analytics, tax and budgeting. He was also
the pioneer in the application of data analytics in revenue and
receivables program. Mr. Derek constantly stays up to date
with financial knowledge.
Mr. Derek joined MH Delight Sdn Bhd in year 2017 to 2019
managing a group of businesses overseeing production,
logistics and marketing. He has successfully improved the
operational efficiency of the group of companies, leading also
the implementation of Goods and Services Tax and transition
to Sales and Service Tax.
In 2019, Mr. Derek took on the role of Enterprise Resource Planning
(“ERP”) project manager in KFM where he has successfully
implemented Oracle ERP to Kawan group of companies. He was
promoted to Business Process Improvement Manager in year
2020 focusing on data analytics to improve sales operations.
Mr. Derek was in January 2023 promoted to National Sales
Head, responsible to transform the Domestic Sales team
and execute business strategies to accelerate sales growth.
Managing a team of 55 sales staff, his emphasis is on coaching,
analytics, and adoption of new technologies to improve sales
performance.
Mr. Derek is the son of Mr Gan Thiam Hock, who has served
as Executive Director in the past and remain substantial
shareholder of the Company. Mr. Derek does not hold any
directorship in other public companies nor listed issuers. He
attended all three (3) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2024 since his appointment on 1
October 2024.
Board Meeting
GAN MENG HOI,
DEREK
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
1 October 2024
34
3/3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
66
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Board of Directors’s Profile
None of the Directors have:
1. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
interest in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or its
subsidiaries (other than the related party transactions which have
been disclosed in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025);
2. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than
traffic offences, if any; and
3. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Neel Naresh Nagrecha (“Mr. Neel”) was appointed to the Board
on 24 February 2025.
Mr. Neel is a dynamic leader in the global beverage industry.
He oversees business operations and strategic direction
at Rubicon Food Products Limited (“Rubicon”), ensuring its
continued success and expansion into international markets.
Since assuming leadership of Rubicon's Rest of World division
in 2018, Mr. Neel has demonstrated innovative and visionary
thinking. Under his guidance, Rubicon has experienced
significant growth, particularly in the Gulf Cooperation Council
and Canadian markets. His creative strategies have enabled
the development of a five-year brand strategy focused on
entering and expanding into the United States, Africa, and Asia.
Mr. Neel's expertise goes beyond traditional business
management, including ingenuity, strategic planning, and
business development. His leadership has driven Rubicon's
revenue growth by 300% over the past three years. Additionally,
Mr. Neel provides corporate advisory assistance to the Shana
Foods Limited management team, focusing on strategy, new
product development, and business growth.
Mr. Neel is the son of Madam Veena Nagrecha, being the
beneficiary of the Narvee F’dation, one of the major shareholders
of the Company. He does not hold any directorship in other
public companies nor listed issuers. Since he was appointed
on 24 February 2025, he has not attended any Board Meetings
held during the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
Board Meeting N/A
NEEL NARESH
NAGRECHA
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
24 February 2025
43
BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
67
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES
ADAM PANDIAN YEAP CHEE KEONG,
ANDY
Chief Operating Officer
Group Chief Executive Officer
Qualification
• Bachelor of Business Administration, National University
of Singapore
Training
• Advanced Management Programme by Prof Peter
Doyle, University of Warwick
• Creating Competitive Advantage by Prof Karl Moore,
Oxford University
• Strategic Management for HiPos, by Saatchi & Saatchi
• Leaders Developing Leaders Program, Kellogg
Leadership Academy
• Kellogg Leadership Coaching; Howard Epstein (New
York) and Graham Richardson (Sydney)
Working Experience:
• Joined Kawan Food Group as the Advisor to the
Executive Chairman and Head of Transformation and
was subsequently appointed as Group Chief Executive
Officer in January 2024.
• More than 35 years of management experience
in commercial, supply chain and corporate roles,
developing and implementing transformation
strategies across various industries and organisations
with a foundation in fast-moving consumer goods.
• He started his career at Procter & Gamble in brand
management and he moved on to several senior
positions including Account Director for Leo Burnett,
Regional Account Director for Saatchi & Saatchi,
General Manager and Commercial Director for
Keebler, and Managing Director for Greater China and
Southeast Asia for Kellogg.
• Before joining Kawan in April 2023, he held Chief
Operating Officer roles in various divisions within the
Hap Seng Group and corporate roles within the Group
MD’s office where he served in change management,
business turnarounds and driving group synergy
across operating divisions.
Qualification
• Master of Business Administration (Executive),
Australian Graduate School of Management,
University of New South Wales
• First Class Honours degree in Bachelor of Electrical
Engineering, University of New South Wales
• Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of
Technologists
Working Experience:
• Over 15 years of experience in procurement,
management, design, implementation and
commissioning of factories, cold storage, machinery,
control systems and electrical systems in food, power
and water industries.
• Responsible for driving factory modernisation
through Industry 4.0 transformations, manufacturing
excellence and sustainability initiatives.
• Experienced in leading the design, procurement
and construction of a state-of-the-art frozen food
manufacturing and storage facility with highly
automated production lines, efficient refrigeration
systems, automated storage and retrieval systems,
rainwater harvesting systems and solar photovoltaic
systems.
• Joined Kawan in April 2013 as Production Manager
and was promoted to Senior Factory Manager in
March 2014. He was promoted to Chief Operating
Officer in July 2022.
Other Positions:
• Committee Member of The Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers (FMM) KL Selangor Branch
• Chairman of The Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers (FMM) Klang Regional Committee
• Deputy Secretary General of The Malaysian
Consortium of Mid-Tier Companies (MCMTC)
Mr. Adam Pandian stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer of
the Company, effective 9 April 2025, to focus on personal interests. He,
however, agreed to continue as an Adviser to the Acting Group Managing
Director, to providing strategic guidance. He does not have any family
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
He has a direct interest of 3,330,000 ordinary shares in the securities of
the Company.
He is the spouse of Ms. Amy Gan, the Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director of the Company, and the son-in-law of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting
Group Managing Director of the Company, and Madam Kwan Sok Kay,
who has served as Executive Director in the past and remain substantial
shareholder of the Company. He is also the brother-in-law of Ms. K.B.
Gan, the Executive Director and Ms. K.H. Gan., the  Non-Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company.
Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian
Appointment to current position: July 2022
Gender: Male Nationality: Singaporean
Appointment to current position: January 2024
Age: 62 Age: 40
68
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
TS. DR. KUAN YAU
HOONG
LEE FUI MENG,
ESTHER
Factory Manager Group Financial Controller
Qualification
• Doctor of Philosophy in Food Technology (Food
Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia
• Master of Science in Food Technology (Food
Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia
• Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Food Science and
Nutrition, Universiti Malaysia Sabah
• Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of
Technologists
• Trend Scout, SIRIM Malaysia
• Professional Member, Research Chef Association, USA
• Professional Member, Malaysian Institute of Food
Technology
• Professional Member, Malaysian Association for the
Study of Obesity
Working Experience:
• More than 10 years of experience in the areas of food,
oleochemicals, home and personal care industry,
and as an academic in large food manufacturing,
multinational corporations and renowned universities.
• He started his career with Seberang Flour Mill as a food
technologist where he optimised flour formulations
to enhance product performance for flour-based
products at lower costs.
• As a lecturer and part of the Strategic Research
Initiative of Taylor’s University, he was responsible
for growing and driving research in the area of food
biopolymers and colloids chemistry. He won a food
development competition held in the United States
twice. He led the development and execution of
projects related to his area of expertise and obesity
with research grants of more than RM1 million. He
has contributed to the academic community by
producing high-impact research papers and articles
that showcase his knowledge and expertise in the field.
• Prior to joining Kawan in 2022, he was the Principal
Researcher for Home and Personal Care at KLK Oleo,
overseeing and leading the development of innovative
high-value applications for globally renowned
consumer brands.
Qualification
• Chartered Accountant, Member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountantsts
Working Experience:
• More than 20 years of working experience in the
areas of external auditing, finance operations, tax
compliance and planning, investment banking and
corporate reporting. Prior to joining the Group, she
worked with Ernst & Young, and in several public
listed companies including in investment banking,
manufacturing, and the food and beverage industry.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company.
She does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company.
KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES
Gender: Female Nationality: Malaysian
Appointment to current position: August 2022
Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian
Appointment to current position: May 2022
Age: 40 Age: 47
69
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
KHOO BOO SENG,
RAYMOND
Head of Export
Qualification
• SPM
Working Experience:
• More than 20 years of experience in the areas of
domestic and export sales of fast-moving consumer
goods, having worked in various companies that
specialise in distributorship.
• He joined Kawan in May 2010 as Business Manager
and was promoted to Head of Export in 2017.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company.
Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian
Appointment to current position: March 2017
Age: 55
KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES
Notes to the Key Management’s Profiles
None of the Key Managements have:
1. held any directorship in public companies or listed issuers;
2. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
interest in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or
its subsidiaries (other than the related party transactions which
have been disclosed in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30
April 2025);
3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other
than traffic offences, if any; and
4. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year.
70
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the Company”) advocates the principles of
good corporate governance. Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), the Board and the
Company continue to enhance its corporate governance processes to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”) are aligned with best practices.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview Statement”) explains how the Company has applied the
following three (3) key principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) during the FY2024:
This statement is prepared in compliance with Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report for detailed disclosures of the
Company’s application of the principles in the MCCG, which is available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND
EFFECTIVENESS
EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PRINCIPLE A PRINCIPLE B PRINCIPLE C
Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for setting strategic directions of the Group and oversees the business affairs
of the Group to ensure long-term success. The Board’s role and responsibilities, authorities and schedule of matters
reserved for the Board are detailed in the Board Charter which is available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
In order to ensure effective discharge of the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has delegated some of its authority
and powers to its committees, namely, Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee (“Board
Committees”).
PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Responsible to promote long term sustainable success and generate value for shareholders and stakeholders
THE BOARD
Audit Committee (“AC”)
Responsibilities
• Internal audit
• External audit
• Risk management
• Financial reporting
• Audit reports
• Related party transactions
• Internal controls
• Conflict of interest
Nominating Committee (“NC”)
Responsibilities
• Board size and composition
• Selection and recruitment of
Directors
• Board performance evaluation
• Committees’ performance
evaluation
• Directors’ training
Remuneration Committee (“RC”)
Responsibilities
• Remuneration packages
• Directors’ fees and benefits
• Performance measures for
incentive plans
Assist the Board in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities. The Board Committees are responsible for
overseeing activities within its Terms of Reference (“TOR”)
BOARD COMMITTEES
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (“GCEO”)
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM
Governance structure
71
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
BOARD KEY FOCUS
AREAS IN FY2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Activities in FY2024
• Reviewed and approved the Audited Financial Statements
of the Company and Group for the financial year ended 31
December 2023;
• Discussed the proposed joint venture business(es) to
establish a joint venture company(ies);
• Discussed and approved the closure of Kawan Food Nantong
Co., Ltd;
• Received report on the conflict of interest declared by the
Directors and Key Management personnel;
• Approved annual business plan and budget;
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the NC and
RC Committees;
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the AC
on its oversight of financial performance, related party
transactions, internal controls, risks and management on the
work undertaken by each committee;
• Received reports and updates from GCEO on operational and
financial performance of the Group and other key matters;
• Received updates on the progress of Environmental, Social
and Governance (“ESG”) Project implementation;
• Reviewed and approved ESG related policies:
- Energy Management Policy
- Water Policy
• Reviewed and approved the revised whistleblowing policy;
• Reviewed and approved revised Organisational Chart;
• Reviewed and approved the Limit of Authority;
• Approved the investment of a new paratha line and an
upgraded of existing paratha line;
• Approved the investment of Factory 2 expansion plan;
• Received new business development on Kawan2Nature Sdn
Bhd and Tian Beverages Sdn Bhd;
• Deliberated and approved the budget for Financial Year
Ending 31 December 2025;
• Approved the Company’s full year and interim results;
• Approved the proposed interim single-tier dividend and final
dividend;
• Discussed updates on corporate governance and regulatory
matters;
• Recommended the proposed authority for the Company to
purchase its own ordinary shares for shareholders’ approval;
• Recommended the proposed renewal of shareholders’
mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue
or trading nature;
• Reviewed and approved the overall content of the annual report;
• Discussed and approved the offer of ESOS for FY2024; and
• Discussed and approved the appointments and re-
constitution of Board and Board Committees.
Review Group
strategies,
plans and
budget
Acquisitions
and Joint
Venture
Re-constitution
of Board
and Board
Committees
TherolesoftheChairmanandGCEOare
separate and distinct. There is a clear
division of responsibilities between the
two roles. The Chairman is responsible
for providing leadership and instilling
good corporate governance and
effectiveness of the Board.
Non-
Independent
Non-Executive
Chairman
("NINEC")
The SINED acts as a sounding board
for the Chairman and to serve as an
intermediary for other Directors when
necessary. He is also the point of
contact for major shareholders and
other stakeholders as well as a liaison
for whistleblowing.
Senior
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
(“SINED”)
The INEDs are responsible for providing
insights, unbiased and independent
views, advice and judgement to the
Board and to ensure effective checks
and balances on the Board. The INEDs
are essential for protecting the interest
of shareholders, in particular minority
shareholders, and can make significant
contributions to the Company’s
decision making by bringing in the
quality of detached impartiality.
Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
(“INEDs”)
The GCEO is primarily responsible for the
day-to-day management of the Group’s
business within a set of authorities, Group’s
strategies, policies and business plans
approved and delegated by the Board.
GCEO
The ED is responsible for day-to-
day management of the business
operations.
Executive
Director (“ED”)
The NINEDs utilise their skills, expertise
and experience to contribute to the
development of the Group as a whole.
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Directors (“NINEDs”)
Division of responsibilities
The details of Board’s responsibilities are set out in the Board
Charter which are available online at www.kawanfood.com.
The Board members have unrestricted access to the
information pertaining to the Company to discharge their
duties and responsibilities. The Board also has access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretaries and may
obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense as and when necessary.
72
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Board Charter
The Board has adopted a Board Charter that serves as a
structured guide on matters relating to the Board. The Board
Charter is designed to provide guidance and clarity to Directors
and Management with regards to the roles of the Boards
and its Board Committees, the role of the Chairman and
Independent Directors, GCEO, the requirements of Directors in
carrying out their roles and in discharging their duties towards
the Company as well as the Board’s operating practices. It also
serves as a reference point for Board activities.
The Board will review and update the Board Charter from time
to time to reflect the changes to the Company’s policies and
procedures to ensure the Board Charter remains consistent
with the Board’s objectives, current laws and practices. The
Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Company has put in place a Code of Conduct and Ethics
(“CoCE”) to ensure transparent and ethical conduct that
permeates throughout the Group. The CoCE is available on the
Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
Whistleblowing Policy
The Company has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy
to provide avenues for employees and external party to
raise legitimate concerns relating to potential breaches
of business conduct, non-compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements as well as other malpractices. The
Whistleblowing Policy is available on the Company’s website
at www.kawanfood.com.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
With the implementation of Section 17A Malaysia Anti-
Corruption Commission Act coming into force in June 2020,
the ABC Policy was established and updated to manage risk in
relation to fraud, bribery and corruption practices. Additionally,
Whistleblowing Policy was revised to provide avenues for
employees and other stakeholders to disclose concerns
relating to violations or improper conduct or wrongdoings
or non-compliance with legal and regulations requirements
within the Group. The ABC Policy is available on the Company’s
website at www.kawanfood.com.
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
The Company has adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy to
ensure a formal and transparent process for the appointment
and re-election of Directors and the appointment of Key Senior
Management of the Company. The execution is delegated
to the Nominating Committee, which will be reviewed and
approved by the Board. The Board reviews the Fit and Proper
Policy periodically, which is available on the Company’s
website at www.kawanfood.com.
Conflict of Interest Policy (“COI”)
The COI Policy outlines the disclosure obligations of each
Director and Key Senior Management with respect to conflict
of interest, and the procedures to be followed when a conflict
of interest arises or potentially arises to ensure systematic
identification, disclosure, and management of conflict of
interest in an effective and timely manner.
Any Director who identifies a conflict of interest, potential
conflict, material personal interest, or relationship that could
reasonably influence their decision-making must immediately
disclose it to the Board and abstain from discussions or voting
on the relevant matter.
The objective of this policy aims to ensure that conflict of
interest is handled appropriately, promoting transparency,
foster a culture of honesty and accountability, and good
governance within the Group. Disclosure should occur as
soon as practicable after the relevant facts have come to the
knowledge of the individual and should be reported on a half
yearly basis, including at all Board and the AC meetings.
The COI Policy is available on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
Board Composition
As at 31 December 2024, the Board has nine (9) Directors
comprising one (1) NINEC, one (1) ED, one (1) SINED, two (2)
INEDs and four (4) NINEDs. Of the nine (9) Directors, four (4)
are women.
The NC reviewed the Board and Board Committees
composition in FY2024 on an annual basis. The composition of
the Board comprises an appropriate balance of representation
from relevant key areas that supports the sustainability efforts
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
73
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
in the business taking into consideration the complexity and
nature of the Group’s businesses.
The Board composition complied with paragraph 15.02 of
the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires at least two (2)
Directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the
higher, are independent.
Changes to the Composition of Board during financial year
under review
On 1 October 2024, Madam Kwan Sok Kay and Mr Gan Thiam
Hock retired from their positions as EDs. Both have been
recognised for their invaluable contributions to the Company.
As part of the succession planning, their respective children,
Ms Gan Ka Hui (daughter of Mr Gan Thiam Chai and Madam
Kwan Sok Kay) and Mr Gan Meng Hoi (son of Mr Gan Thiam
Hock) were appointed as NINEDs on 1 October 2024 to succeed
their positions.
Puan Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz was appointed as INED on
1 October 2024. She brings a wealth of experience in corporate
law and governance, having served in various legal and
executive roles in private sectors.
On 16 October 2024, Mr Gan Thiam Chai retired from his role
as Executive Chairman. He was bestowed the honorary title
of Chairman Emeritus and continued to serve as an Adviser
to the Company. As part of the succession planning, Ms Gan
Ka Ooi, the daughter of Mr Gan Thiam Chai, was appointed as
NINED on 16 October 2024.
Mr Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim was re-designated from INED
to NINEC on 16 October 2024 given his tenure of an INED has
reached 9 years.
Changes to the Composition of Board in 2025
On 24 February 2025, Mr Neel Naresh Nagrecha was appointed
as NINED. Subsequently, on 9 April 2025, Mr Gan Thiam Chai
was appointed as Acting Group Managing Director (“AGMD”)
of the Company. The appointments increased the total
number of Directors to eleven (11) as of the report date. Details
of the Directors are set out in Board of Directors' Profiles of this
annual report.
In conjunction with the appointment of Mr Neel Naresh
Nagrecha (act as a nominee of Narvee F'dation, one of the
major shareholders of the Company) as the NINED of the
Company on 24 February 2025, Encik Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”) to be held in 2025. Mr Neel Naresh Nagrecha brings
with him a deep understanding of the family's legacy and
a commitment to continuing the strategic vision set forth
by his overseas experiences. His appointment ensures that
Narvee F'dation's interests are well-represented on the Board,
fostering a strong alignment with the Group's long-term goals
and values.
To facilitate leadership continuity, the Board had appointed Mr
Gan Thiam Chai as AGMD on 9 April 2025. Mr Gan Thiam Chai
will assume this role while continuing as Chairman Emeritus of
the Company. Mr Adam Pandian stepped down as GCEO of the
Company, effective 9 April 2025, to focus on personal interests.
He has, however, continued as an Adviser to the AGMD, to
provide strategic guidance.
These changes mark the involvement of the second generation
of the founding family in the leadership of the Company. The
new directors bring fresh perspectives and a commitment to
uphold the Company's values and drive its future growth.
Board Independence
The Board recognises that independence and objective
judgement are crucial and imperative in decision-making
process. The INEDs play a significant role in providing an
unbiased and independent view, advice and judgement taking
into account the interest of relevant stakeholders including
minority shareholders of the Group.
Pursuant to Practice 5.3 of the MCCG, the tenure of an
Independent Director does not exceed a cumulative term
of nine (9) years. Upon completion of nine (9) years, an
Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board as a
Non-Independent Director.
However, the retention of Independent Directors after serving a
cumulative term of nine (9) years shall be subjected to annual
assessment by the NC, regarding the independence and
contributions; and annual shareholders’ approval in a general
meeting, where the Board provides valid justification on the
recommendation in the explanatory notes to the resolution in
the notice of a general meeting. Notwithstanding the above,
the tenure of Independent Director should not exceed a
cumulative term of twelve (12) years.
74
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud will serve on the Board as INED for
a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1 January 2026. The
Board, after considering the recommendation of the NC and
without the participation of Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud, resolved
to retain him as Independent Directors as he brings a wealth
of knowledge and experience to the Company. In addition, he
provides effective checks and balances in Board proceedings
and continues to exercise his independence and objective
judgment in Board deliberations and Board Committee
meetings.
As to-date, the tenure of other Independent Directors is less
than nine (9) years of service. The Board is of the view that
the independence of the Independent Directors should not be
determined solely or arbitrarily by their tenure of service. The
Board believes that their continued contribution will provide
stability and benefits to the Board and the Company as a
whole, especially their invaluable knowledge of the Group
and its operations gained through the years. The calibre,
qualification, experience and personal qualities, particularly
of the Director’s integrity and objectivity in discharging his
responsibilities in the best interest of the Company should be
the predominant factors to determine the ability of a Director
to serve effectively as an Independent Director.
The Board is also confident that the Independent Directors
themselves,afterhavingprovidedalltherelevantconfirmations
on their independence, will be able to determine if they can
continue to bring independent and objective judgement
during Board deliberations and decision making.
Diversity
The Board acknowledges the importance of having diversity
of Board, Management and employees in terms of skills,
expertise, gender, age and ethnicity. The Company has put
in place a Diversity Policy as the Company’s commitment to
diversity at all levels.
During the financial year under review, there were significant
changes to the Company’s Board composition. As of 31
December 2024, the Board comprised nine (9) Directors,
including four (4) female Directors, which accounted for 44%
representation of women on the Board. With the appointment
of new Directors on 24 February 2025 and 9 April 2025, the total
number of Directors increased to eleven (11), resulting in a 36%
representation of women on the Board.
The Board has achieved the country's aspirational target of
30% representation of women directors in line with Practice
5.9 of MCCG 2021 and will remain committed to considering a
diverse range of candidates, including female representation,
in all future recruitment and selection processes.
The Diversity Policy is available on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Evaluation
The Board through its NC also undertakes an annual review
of performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board
Committees as well as the contribution of each individual
Directors to the Board and Board Committees.
The Board Evaluation Report indicated that the Board, Board
Committees and individual Directors continue to be highly
effective in providing oversight of the Company and its
governance.
Following the FY2024 Board evaluation, the Board is satisfied
that the SINED and INEDs are independent to discharge their
duties and responsibilities effectively.
PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
75
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Member(s) Board AC NC RC
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman(a)
7/7 4/4 4/4 2/2
Gan Thiam Chai
Chairman Emeritus and AGMD(b)
5/5
Gan Thiam Hock
Executive Director(c)
4/4
Kwan Sok Kay
Executive Director(c)
4/4
Gan Ka Bien
Executive Director
6/7
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
7/7 7/7 4/5 3/3
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Independent Non-Executive Director(d)
7/7 7/7 5/5 3/3
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
Independent Non-Executive Director(e) (f)
2/3 3/3 1/1 1/1
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
7/7
Gan Meng Hoi
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(e)
3/3
Gan Ka Hui
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(e)
3/3
Gan Ka Ooi
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(g)
1/2
Neel Naresh Nagrecha
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(h)
Remarks:
(a)	
Re-designated from INED to NINEC on 16 October 2024, and ceased as AC Chairman, NC and RC member on 16 October 2024.
(b)	
Retired on 16 October 2024 and was bestowed the honorary title of Chairman Emeritus; subsequently appointed as AGMD on 9 April 2025.
(c)		 Retired on 1 October 2024.
(d)	
Re-designated from AC member to AC Chairman on 16 October 2024, and re-designated from NC Chairman to member on 24 February 2025.
(e) Appointed on 1 October 2024.
(f)		 Appointed as AC, NC and RC member on 1 October 2024, and re-designated to NC Chairperson on 24 February 2025.
(g) Appointed on 16 October 2024.
(h) Appointed on 24 February 2025.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Time Commitment
The Board meets once quarterly with additional meetings being convened whenever necessary, to discharge their responsibilities
effectively. The Senior Management are also invited to meetings for presentation, if required.
The attendance of the Directors at Board and its Committee meetings for FY2024 are as follows:
Board Training and Development
The Board acknowledges the importance of continuous education and training programmes for Directors to discharge its
responsibilities effectively and to be apprised of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such regulatory
requirements will have on the Group. The Company Secretaries circulate and brief the relevant guidelines on statutory and
regulatory requirements from time to time and for the Board’s reference.
All Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”) as required by the MMLR of Bursa Securities, except for
the newly appointed Director, who will complete it within four (4) months from the date of appointment. Additionally, most Directors
have completed MAP Part II on sustainability, which is also a required programme to be completed in 2025.
76
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board of Directors’ Training 2024
Name Courses/Seminar/Conference Date Organiser
Lim Hun
Soon @
David Lim
Fireside Chat with Former Central Bank Governors: ‘Central Banking in
an Evolving International Financial System’
6 February FIDE FORUM
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘The Global Landscape: Near-
Term Volatility’
4 March Professor Pushan Dutt, INSEAD
PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘Generative AI: What Comes Next
After ChatGPT? Predicting the Next 5 Gen AI Tools!’
15 March Professor Amit Joshi, IMD
Directors Masterclass Series: ‘What Directors Must Know: Recent
Developments in Climate Science’
17 April FIDE FORUM
Engagement Session with FIDE FORUM Members on BNM Annual Report
2023, Economic and Monetary Review 2023 and Financial Stability
Review 2023
30 May FIDE FORUM in collaboration with BNM
PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘ABAC and AML: Senior
Management and the Board’s Responsibilities and Perspective’
5 June Chionh Chye Kit, Cynopsis Solutions
Sustainability Training Programme for Board of Directors (Online) 1 July
IFCTF 2024 Masterclass Programme: ‘Combatting Financial Crime and
the AML/CFT/CPF: A Technical Deep Dive’
19 August Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
Case Studies: Wirecard’s Reluctant Whistleblower and Other Financial
Deceptions
15 October Securities Industry Development
Corporation (SIDC)
Directors’ Remuneration Report Launch 11 November FIDE FORUM
Gan Thiam
Chai
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Gan Ka
Bien
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Carbon Markets: What Directors Need to Know 12 June Asia School of Business
Dr. Nik
Ismail Bin
Nik Daud
Webinar: Food Safety Standards and Its Challenges 16 January SIRIM Academy
Webinar: Keperluan Perlabelan Makanan Terkini PPM PUA 209 (Pindaan
No. 4 2020)
29 January Food Safety and Quality Division,
Ministry of Health
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Precision Nutrition and Food Science Strategies to Combat Persistent
Metabolic Challenges Associated with Long-COVID
29 February International Union of Food Science
and Technology
Cyber and Director’s and Officers Insurance 13 March BoardRoom in collaboration with
Aeon Insurance Brokers
Interdisciplinary Approach Towards Global Food and Nutrition Security
of Sustainable Development Goals
28 March International Union of Food Science
and Technology
Eugene
Hon Kah
Weng
Cybersecurity Awareness (Physical) 29 November
The Anti-Money Laundering Act (AMLA) 14 February Affin Hwang Investment Bank
Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions 15 February Affin Bank Group
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
The Directors of the Company had attended the following training programmes, workshops, briefing and seminars during FY2024:
PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
77
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Name Courses/Seminar/Conference Date Organiser
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Cybersecurity and Data Privacy: The Fight Against Financial Crime 2 April Securities Industry Development
Corporation (SIDC)
Responsibility Mapping with Directors of Financial Institutions 24 April Financial Institutions Directors
Education (FIDE)
Bespoke Workshop: ‘Cultivating Strategic Thinking Competence’ 25 May Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia (ICDM)
Climate Governance Malaysia (CGM) Masterclass Series 2024: ‘Latest
Developments in Climate: Aligned Executive Compensation’
17 July FIDE Asia School of Business
Preventing Fraud: The Board’s Roles and Responsibilities 8 August Financial Institutions Directors
Education (FIDE)
Strategic Insights: Navigating Islamic Finance and Climate Change 3 October Affin Bank Group
Directors Remuneration Survey Report 11 November Financial Institutions Directors
Education (FIDE)
Economic Outlook and Post Budget 2025 Forum 14 November Financial Institutions Directors
Education (FIDE)
Bespoke Workshop: ‘A Delicate Balance: Board and Management
Relationship’
7 December Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia (ICDM)
Noor
Alina Binti
Mohamad
Faiz
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
FutureProofingYourBusiness:WhatYouNeedtoKnowAboutthe“S”in“ESG” 6 March Asia School of Business
Board Oversight of Climate Risks and Opportunities 23 April Asia School of Business
Carbon Markets: What Directors Need to Know 12 June Asia School of Business
SIDC Sustainable and Responsible Investment Conference 2024 20 June Securities Commission
ESG and Internal Audit: Strengthening the Third Line of Defence 1 July Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn.
Bhd.
ESG/Impact Investigating: What Are Investors Looking For? 19 August Asia School of Business
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact (LIP) 9to10October InstituteofCorporateDirectorsMalaysia
Cybersecurity Awareness Training 29 November BoardroomCorporateServicesSdn.Bhd.
Abdul
Razak Bin
Shakor
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Gan Ka
Ooi, Amy
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1) 11 to 12
November
Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia
Gan Ka Hui
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1) 11 to 12
November
Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia
Gan Meng
Hoi, Derek
Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG
Reporting
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to commodity futures structured warrants
22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Bhd
Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1) 11 to 12
November
Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia
78
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Roles:
• Oversee the Board appointment process including the
nomination and selection of Directors and key senior
management of Kawan.
• Recommend new Directors’ nomination to the Board and
key senior management of Kawan.
• Review Board training programmes and making
recommendations thereof.
• Assess the performance and effectiveness of individual
Directors, Board and Board Committees, which includes
assessing the fit and properness of Directors who are due
for retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
• Assess and review the Board composition (ie. size,
experience, diversity etc) and organisation structure of
Kawan.
• Oversee the succession planning for the Board and key
senior management of Kawan.
NC Activities in FY2024
• Reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board
and Board Committees as well as contribution of each
individual Directors to the Board and Board Committees in
FY2024;
• Discussed and reviewed Succession Planning for
Management;
• Reviewed the composition of the Board in meeting
necessary skills, experience and competency of the Board;
• Recommended the re-constitution of the Board;
• Conducted mid-year Key Performance Indicators and
assessment with respective Senior Management;
• Reviewed the performance of GCEO;
NC
Members
Remarks:
(a)	
Appointed as NC member on 1 October 2024, and re-
designated to NC Chairperson on 24 February 2025.
(b)	
Re-designated from NC Chairman to member on 24
February 2025.
(c)	
Ceased as NC Member on 16 October 2024 in view of his
redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairperson(a)
1
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member(b)
2
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Member(c)
4
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
3
FOCUS AREAS IN
FY2024
Succession
Planning for
Management
Assessment
of Board
effectiveness
Appointments
and Re-
constitution
of the Board
Committees
• Reviewed and recommended the appointment of new
Directors;
• Reviewed and assessed the term of office and performance
of the AC and each of its members;
• Assessed Directors’ training needs to receive suitable
orientation and training programmes;
• Reviewed the Directors’ retirement by rotation at the
Twentieth (“20th”) AGM of the Company held on 26 June
2024;
• Discussed the management structure of the Company;
and
• Reviewed the revised organisational structure.
PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
79
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
• Assess the performance and recommend to the Board
for approval the total remuneration packages of GCEO/
AGMD, ED, Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) and Key Senior
Management.
Remuneration packages
The remuneration packages for the ED and Key Senior
Management comprises basic salary, benefits in kind, bonus
and allowances which reflect their roles and performance
for the year. The NED’s remuneration package comprises
Directors’ fees, benefits in kind and meeting allowances
which reflects individual’s role and responsibilities. The
Board remuneration is reviewed by benchmarking against
peer companies.
The Chairman of the AC, RC and NC receives higher fees
in respect of their service as a chairman of the respective
committee. The Directors will receive an additional fee if
they are members of the Board Committees. The fees for
Directors are determined by the Board with approval from
shareholders at AGM.
The interested Directors abstained from deliberation and
voting on their own remuneration at the Board meetings.
The remuneration of the Directors and GCEO on a named
basis for FY2024 are disclosed in the CG Report which is
available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
RC activities in FY2024:
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval
the Directors fees and benefits payable to the Directors
(including allowances) for recommendation to the
shareholders for approval at the AGM;
• Reviewed and deliberated on the Balance Scorecard, Key
Performance Indicators and Performance Management
and Reward System;
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the
remuneration/benefit payable in 2024 for the following:
- Executive Directors’ remuneration packages and
benefits payable (including allowances).
- Key Management’s salary packages.
RC
Members
Remarks:
(a) Appointed as RC member on 1 October 2024.
(b)	
Ceased as RC member on 16 October 2024 in view of his
redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman
1
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
2
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Member(b)
4
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member(a)
3
FOCUS AREAS IN
FY2024
Performance
Management
& Reward
System
Remuneration
Package for
Directors and
GCEO
Remuneration
Package for
Chairman
Emeritus, Finance
Director and
Sales Director.
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the
management incentives (supervisor and above) and final
bonus for the following:
- Executive Directors
- Key Managements
- Employees
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board the revised
Performance Management and Reward System; and
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board the contract
terms, remuneration and benefits for Chairman Emeritus,
Finance Director and Sales Director.
Roles:
• Assess, review and recommend to the Board the
remuneration packages of individual Directors, GCEO/
AGMD and Key Senior Management.
• Review and approve performance measures for incentive
plans recommended by the Management.
80
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE B EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
AC
The AC of the Company comprises one (1) SINED and two (2)
INEDs. Collectively, the AC members are financially literate,
possess commercial expertise skills and experience to
enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities
pursuant to the AC’s TOR.
Based on the recommendation of MCCG, the AC requires a
former key audit partner to observe a cooling-off period of
at least three (3) years before being appointed as a member
of the AC.
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory and
fiduciary responsibilities on financial reporting, compliance
with applicable financial reporting standards and other
legal requirements, internal audit, external audit functions
and risk management of the Group.
On an annual basis, the AC reviews and evaluates the
suitability, objectivity and independence of the External
Auditors taking into consideration the following:
Technical competencies
Adequacy of technical support
Independence and objectivity
Time commitment
Audit scope and planning
Audit and non-Audit fees
Sound Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in
maintaining an effective risk management and internal
control system to safeguard stakeholders’ investments and
the Group’s assets. The AC assists the Board in the oversight
of proper implementation of risk management and control
system.
The Group has established a robust risk management
framework as an approach to identify, assess, report and
monitor risks facing the Group. Kawan maintains a risk
register comprises Group wide risks specific to the business
activities was reviewed and updated every quarter.
The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to
a professional service firm which is independent of the
activities and operations of the Group. The outsourced
Internal Auditors report directly to the AC. The Internal Audit
function is primarily responsible in assessing and improving
the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control
systems and governance processes within the Group.
The statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set
out in this annual report provides a detailed description of
the state of risk management and internal controls.
The details on the roles of the AC are set out in AC report
of this annual report.
81
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
PRINCIPLE INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Communications with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective
communication between the Company, investors,
shareholders, stakeholders and public at large to provide
timely, accurate, and equal access to material information
on the Group’s performance and operations.
Kawan engages with its stakeholders by way of
announcements via Bursa Securities and press releases.
All financial results, notice of dividend and ad-hoc
announcements are available on the Bursa Securities’
website. Investor relation section which is available on the
Company’s corporate website at www.kawanfood.com
contains information on Kawan such as corporate profile,
annual reports, Board of Directors, AGM etc for both existing
and potential shareholders. The stakeholders can reach
out to Kawan should they require further information or
assistance.
Kawan also organised meetings with analysts, institutional
fund managers, shareholders and potential investors.
Our discussion generally involves financial and business
performance, outlook and strategic direction of the Group.
General Meetings
The 20th AGM of the Company was conducted virtually
through live streaming and online remote participation by
using Remote Participation and Electronics Voting (“RPEV”)
Facilities, which is in compliance with Section 327(2) of the
Companies Act 2016. The virtual AGM provides an avenue
for the shareholders to seek clarification and insights into
the operations and financial performance of the Group. The
Chairman took the chair of the AGM and the Chief Operating
Officer (“COO”) gave a presentation to the shareholders
covering the results of the Company as well as the operation
and financial performance for the FYE 31 December 2023.
During the Question-and-Answer session of the AGM, its
shareholders were invited to post their questions to the
Board. The COO was presented to answer shareholders’
queries and concerns.
Notice of AGM sets out the resolutions together with the
Company’s Annual Report was circulated to shareholders
at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the meeting to
provide shareholders with sufficient time for considerations
and to make informed decisions. Shareholders who are
unable to attend are allowed to appoint proxies to attend,
speak and vote on their behalf. The voting at the 20th AGM
was conducted through electronic poll voting of which the
votes cast was validated by an independent scrutineer.
The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the AGM is to
be announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting
day while the minutes of the AGM shall be circulated to
the shareholders not later than 30 business days after the
meeting.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 14 April 2025.
C
82
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
• Accountable for the governance of the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AC
• Oversees the implementation of risk management
framework, policies and procedures in identifying
and managing risks across the Group;
• Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management.
RISK MANAGEMENT WORKING COMMITTEE
(“RMWC”)
• Provides adequate support to AC with regards to
risk management;
• Chaired by the CEO and supported by Head of
Departments/Functional Heads;
• Identifies, assesses and monitors the Group’s risks;
• Oversees the quarterly report on risk exposures
and risk management activities to facilitate
understanding and determination of appropriate
risk responses, including follow-up on risk
mitigation actions. The risk management report is
reported to AC on a quarterly basis for review and
discussion.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors (“The Board”) is pleased to present
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
of Kawan Food Berhad (“the Company” or “Kawan”) and
its subsidiaries (“the Group”), outlining the nature of risk
management and internal control for the financial year
ended31December2024.Thisstatementhasbeenprepared
in accordance with paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
(“MMLR”) and by the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers
and Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).
Board responsibilities
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the
Group’s system of risk management and internal control.
It remains committed to maintaining an ongoing process
to review the adequacy and integrity of these systems to
safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
The Board has delegated responsibilities to the Audit
Committee (“AC”), which provides oversight of the Group’s
risk management and internal control systems. The adequacy
and effectiveness of these systems were reviewed by the AC,
taking into consideration conducted by internal and external
auditors during the year.
Nevertheless, the Board recognises that these systems are
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure.
Therefore, they can only provide a reasonable, rather than
absolute assurance against material misstatements or
losses.
Risk culture
The risk culture is driven from the top and reinforced by
middle Management, serving as the foundation of a robust
risk management framework.
Risk management updates are continuously communicated
and reinforced throughout the Group to enhance the
identification, assessment and mitigation of risks. The Group
has instilled a culture where the Board, Management and
employees are committed to strengthening processes and
controls in managing business activities.
Risk Management (“RM”) Framework
1st line of defence
Business Units
Risk management on a day-to-day basis through
effective controls.
2nd line of defence
Risk Management
Provide oversight and support to first line of defence
by identifying, managing, and monitoring risk
including policies, procedures and training.
3rd line of defence
Internal and External Audit
Provide independent assurance to the AC and
Board on the effectiveness and adequacy of the
risk management framework and internal control
system.
INTRODUCTION
83
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Risk Management Process
The Group has in place a risk management process that provides a structured approach to ensure that there is an on-going
process to identify, prioritise, and manage risks exposure, as illustrated below :
Managing risks within the Group involves an on-going assessment process to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this statement.
The Risk Register is maintained to support risk management activities and is reviewed and updated quarterly by RMWC.
A Group Risk Management Report is then prepared, highlighting significant and emerging risks, corresponding mitigation
measures and the status of follow-up actions. This report is presented to the AC every quarter for review and deliberation to
ensure that risk exposures remain within acceptable levels and that appropriate mitigation measures are in place. The AC
Chairman subsequently reports the updates to the Board.
The following table highlights the key risks deliberated by the AC in FY2024:
FOCUS AREAS IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES
Competitiveness
Risk
Risk of a challenging business environment driven
by increasing competition from new market
entrants, geopolitical shifts, market volatility, rising
commodity and operational costs, cost pressures
and intense market investment by industry peers,
potentially impacting profit sustainability and
market position.
• Expand market reach and diversify revenue
streams
• Refine business processes and resource
allocation to maximise efficiency and
profitability
• Pursue cost leadership by implementing key
initiatives to optimise resource utilisation and
minimise expenditure
Foreign
Exchange Risk
Risk of foreign currency fluctuations, especially the
U.S. dollar, may lead to lower ringgit realisation
on exports, exposing Group’s export revenue to
earnings volatility.
• Implement foreign exchange strategies based
on prevailing market conditions to enable
proactive hedging
• Monitor exchange rate trends through market
outlook discussions with financial institutions
• Hedge key foreign currency exposures to
minimise risk
Human Capital
Risk
Risk that arise from challenges in attracting and
retaining competent talent, as well as optimising
workforce efficiency, may impact the effective
implementation of the Group’s strategies.
• Conduct remuneration and benefits reviews
• Offer compensation incentive schemes,
including the Employees’ Share Option Scheme
and annual bonuses, to enhance retention
• Streamline operations processes to enhance
productivity
Report
Present risk
reports to the AC
and highlight new/
emerging risk areas
and the controls
in place
Monitor
continuously the
identified risks and
their controls in
place
Decide risk
response – how
to manage and
control risks
Evaluate
risks
Determine the
significance and risk
level of these risks
– high, medium
and low
Assess risks
Assess likelihood
and impact of these
risks using risk
matrix
Identify
existing and
potential risks
including emerging
risks as well as
changes affecting
existing risks
84
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Group’s Internal Audit function (“GIA”) comprises both an outsourced team and a newly established in-house Internal Audit
team, which reports independently to the AC. The GIA provides risk-based and objective assurance on the adequacy, efficiency,
and effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance. The selection of audit areas is based on an annual audit plan
approved by the AC, which is developed through risk assessments of Kawan Group.
During the financial year, the GIA conducted reviews to assess the adequacy of controls over the following areas:
• Strategic Planning: Reviewed strategic risks and the adequacy of action plans, including the reasonableness of key
performance indicators (KPIs) to monitor progress toward the Group’s mission, vision, and objectives.
• Recurrent Related Party Transactions: Reviewed compliance with RRPT procedures and shareholders’ mandate, including
management’s monitoring against approved limits.
• Sales and Customer Management: Reviewed controls over advertisement and promotion expenses, sales discounts, customer
returns, and customer payment processes.
• ProcurementandSupplyChain: Reviewed procurement management on raw and packaging material, as well as transportation
management, with a focus on in-house vehicle utilisation and the effectiveness of outsourced delivery services.
• Inventory Management: Reviewed the effectiveness of spare parts and packaging material management for accuracy and
proper inventory control.
• Asset Management and Maintenance: Reviewed the management of machinery and equipment, along with the effectiveness
of maintenance activities, including preventive, corrective, and predictive measures.
• Cybersecurity Control: Reviewed the effectiveness of security defense strategies, network controls, and data protection
measures.
Upon completion of each audit assignment, the GIA provides an audit report which covers the scope of work performed,
evaluation of internal control systems, detailed audit observations, management responses and timeline for implementing the
GIA’s recommendation. All significant and material findings are reported to the AC for review and deliberation. The AC then
assesses the overall adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems and reports its deliberations and material
findings to the Board.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The AC and the Board
The Board has delegated its authority in overseeing the
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems to the AC. The
AC has oversight of the independence, scope of work and
resources of the Internal Audit. The AC meets quarterly to
review audit and investigations reports prepared by IA. The
effectiveness of the internal control system is monitored and
evaluated by the AC on an ongoing basis.
Further details on AC activities can be found on AC report.
Organisation Structure & Authority Limits
The Group has a formal organisation structure with clearly
defined accountabilities, reporting lines and authority in
order to align to its business and operational changes and
needs.
The Limit of Authority clearly outlines the Board and
Management’s limits and approval authorities across
various key processes. The delegation of authorities is duly
approved by the Board and subject to review and update to
reflect business and operational changes and needs.
Annual Budget and Financial Projections
The Group’s annual budget is deliberated and approved
by the Board on an annual basis. Actual performances are
reviewed against the approved budget with explanations of
major variances and presented to the Board.
Group Policies and Procedures
The Group has put in place documented policies and
procedures which covers a wide range of areas including
food safety, security, product quality assurance, human
resource, and purchasing to provide guidance for the
employees. These policies are subject to review as and when
required to ensure its relevance to the Group’s operations
and continue to support the Group’s business activities as it
continues to grow.
Human Resource Policies and Procedures
The HR Policies and Procedures of the Group incorporates
policies and guidelines on human resource management
in the Group. These policies and procedures are reviewed
as and when the need arises and are communicated to
employees via email.
The key features of the Group’s internal control system are as follows:
INTERNAL AUDIT
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
85
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”)
WBP provides internal and external parties with accessible
channels to raise concerns or disclose information
regarding suspected or known malpractices, misconducts
or wrongdoings within the Group without fear of any form of
victimisation, harassment, retribution or retaliation.
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has
oversight over the access to the whistleblowing cases and
the whistleblowing processes. The WBP is available on the
Group’s website.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC”)
The Group’s ABC sets out principles and clear procedures for
all donations, sponsorships, hospitality and gifting activities
of the Group. The ABC also provide guidance to all employees
on how to deal with improper solicitation, bribery and other
corrupt activities.
This policy applies to all stakeholders and employees of
Kawan and the Group. All employees are required to declare
that they have read, understood and will abide by the Policy.
Training on ABC including mandatory onboarding sessions
for new employees and annual refresher sessions for existing
employees, is conducted to foster a culture of zero tolerance
for bribery and corruption and to raise awareness on
corporate liability.
People Development
A succession planning has been established to strengthen
the Group’s talent and succession. In respect of this, the Group
has identified the potential talent within the organisation
and has provided structured leadership development
programme and coaching in making this talent ready for
future leadership. The Group will continue to develop its
human capital by improving talent management, learning
and development, organisation design, and remuneration
and performance management.
Information and Communication
The Group has in place effective communication of critical
information channels across the Group. Matters that require
Board and Senior Management’s attention are highlighted for
review, deliberation and decision making on a timely basis.
Monitoring and Review
Monthly management reports comprising key financial
results and operational performance are reviewed and
monitored by the management team. Quarterly financial
statements are presented to the AC and Board for their
review, consideration and approval.
Business Continuity Management (“BCM”)
BCM is part of our commitment in enhancing business
resilience throughout our Group. The Group adopts a BCM
Policy to provide a systematic approach and consistent
practices to build organisational resilience with adequate
capability mechanism to ensure continuation of business
and operations. The BCM System is periodically reviewed and
tested accordingly to ensure effectiveness and relevance to
the current business environment.
Certifications and Compliance Standards
The Group continues to adopt relevant safety, quality, HALAL
and Occupational Health and Safety certification systems.
Our manufacturing site undergoes independent third-
party audit under the BRCGS Global Food Safety Standard
and ensures strict product quality and safety through
certifications such as MS1480 HACCP, MS1514 GMP, MeSTI, VHM,
and HALAL certification. Additionally, the Group complies with
the FDA BTA and FSMA to meet international food safety and
regulatory requirements.
Beyond food safety, the Group adopts an Integrated
Management System encompassing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and
ISO 45001, ensuring compliance with best practices in quality,
environmental management, and occupational health and
safety.
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad’s MMLR, the External Auditors have reviewed this
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for
inclusion in the FY2024 Annual Report. Their review was
performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice
Guide 3: Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report
on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants. Based on their review, nothing has
come to their attention that causes them to believe that
this statement is not prepared, in all material respect, in
accordance with the disclosures required by paragraph 41
and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control: Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, or is factually
inaccurate.
CONCLUSION
The Chief Operating Officer and Group Financial Controller
have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems are operating
adequately and effectively, in all material aspects.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal
control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in any
material losses, contingencies, nor uncertainties that would
require separate disclosure in the Group’s annual report.
Nevertheless, the Board shall continue to take the appropriate
and necessary measures to continuously improve the Group’s
risk management and internal control system to meet the
Group’s corporate objectives.
This statement was approved by the Board on 14 April 2025.
86
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
On 16 October 2024, Mr Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim was re-
designated from INED to Non-Independent Non-Executive
Chairman (“NINEC”) of the Board. Consequently, he ceased
to be the Chairman of the AC on the same day. In compliance
with paragraph 15.19 of the Main Market Listing Requirements
(“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”), Mr Eugene Hon Kah Weng was re-designated
from a member to the Chairman of the AC.
The AC’s composition meets the MMLR of Bursa Securities
which requires that at least one member of the AC must
fulfil the financial expertise requisite of paragraph 15.09(1)
(c) of MMLR of Bursa Securities. The AC Chairman is member
of the MIA and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (MICPA).
For the financial year under review, the Board of Directors
(“Board”) evaluated the performance and effectiveness
of the AC via the Nominating Committee’s review of the
term of office and performance of the AC and its members
and was satisfied that the AC members were able to and
had discharged their functions and responsibilities in
accordance with the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC.
The role, scope and responsibilities of the AC are set out in
its TOR which are accessible on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
Further details on the experience and qualifications of the
AC members are available in the Annual Report under the
Board of Directors’ Profiles.
MEETINGS
The AC conducted seven (7) meetings during the financial
year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), details of which
are set out as follows:
Name No. of Meetings
Attended
Eugene Hon Kah Weng 7/7
Dr. Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud 7/7
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz 3/3
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 4/4
The Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”), Company
Secretaries, Financial Controller and Management were
invited to attend the meetings to present their reports and
provide appropriate information as well as clarification to
relevant items on the agenda. The Internal Auditors were
invited to present the internal audit reports to the AC during
the AC meetings to present specific issues arising from
audit findings. The External Auditors also attended the AC
meeting to present their annual audit plan, annual financial
statements and other matters deemed relevant.
The AC Chairman reported to the Board activities and
significant matters discussed at each AC meeting.
Deliberations during the AC meetings were recorded.
Minutes of the AC meetings were tabled for confirmation at
the following AC meeting and subsequently tabled to the
Board for notation.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN FY2024
Financial Reporting
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval:
- quarterly unaudited financial results including
announcements to Bursa Securities; and
- audited financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) to reflect the true and fair
view of the business results and financial position of the
Group and that the financial statements were prepared
in compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards (MFRS).
• Deliberated all key accounting matters arose during the
year; and
• Reviewed and deliberated on audit issues raised by the
External Auditors and the action plans required to address
them.
External Audit (“EA”)
• Reviewed and approved the external audit plan including
scope of works and approach for FY2024;
COMPOSITION
The Audit Committee ("AC") comprises three (3)
members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive
Directors ("INED"):
Remarks:
(a)	
Re-designated from AC member to Chairman on 16 October
2024.
(b) Appointed as AC member on 1 October 2024.
(c)	
Ceased as AC Chairman on 16 October 2024 in view of his
redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.
Eugene Hon Kah Weng*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman(a)
1
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
2
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim*
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman(c)
4
* Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA).
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member(b)
3
87
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
• Had two (2) meetings with the External Auditors without
the presence of the Management to discuss relevant
issues and concerns arising from the audits;
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board, the re-
appointment of External Auditors, taking into consideration
their competencies, commitments, independence and
objectivity; and
• Assessed the independence and objectivity of the External
Auditors and recommended to the Board the audit and
non-audit fees payable to External Auditors.
Internal Audit (“IA”)
• Reviewed and approved the risk-based annual audit plan
to ensure adequate scope and coverage of the Company’s
and the Group’s activities;
• Reviewed internal audit reports on a quarterly basis,
assessed internal control issues, evaluated management’s
response to audit recommendations, and monitored the
implementation of corrective actions;
• Reviewed follow-up audit reports to ensure the proper
implementation of corrective actions by management
and deliberated on outstanding issues to drive resolution
and strengthen internal controls;
• Held private sessions with the Internal Auditors without the
presence of Management to discuss relevant issues and
concerns arising from the audits; and
• Reviewed effectiveness of the Internal Auditors by
assessing their performance, adequacy of resources,
independence, and competencies of the Internal Auditors.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the Group’s top risk profiles and deliberated on
the significant threats and opportunities on a quarterly
basis;
• Reviewed quarterly risk management reports on risk
management activities, exposure and mitigating actions;
• Reviewed, tracked and monitored, on an ongoing basis, the
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems; and
• Reviewed and recommended enhancement on the
Whistleblowing Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy and Anti-
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, where relevant.
Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) and Conflict of
Interest (“COI”)
• Reviewed all RPTs on quarterly basis to ensure RPTs were
carried out on an arm's length basis and on normal
commercial terms, consistent with the Company and the
Group’s usual business practices and policies, which are
not more favourable than those generally available to the
third parties/public and are not to the detriment of the
minority shareholders;
• Reviewed and deliberated on RPTs , COI and potential
COI and reported to the Board any COI or potential COI
situation including measures to resolve, eliminate or
mitigate such conflicts, if any; and
• Reviewed and recommended for Board’s approval the
Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related
party transactions of revenue or trading nature.
Other Matters
• Be apprised of updates on key governance matters and
observations in regards of the provisions set out in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 pursuant
to the MMLR of Bursa Securities;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
the Statement to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own
ordinary shares;
• Reviewed the proposed dividend payout taking into
consideration the cash flow requirements before
recommending for Board’s approval; and
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
the Audited financial statement, Management Discussion
and Analysis, Sustainability Statement, Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control, Audit Committee
Report, Corporate Governance Overview Statement and
Corporate Governance Report for inclusion in the Annual
Report.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is carried out jointly
by both an outsourced team and a newly established in-
house internal audit team to provide independent and
objective assurance on the adequacy, efficiency and
effectiveness of internal controls.
The outsourced internal audit function is handled by Tricor
Axcelasia Sdn Bhd, led by Ms. Sarine Loo ("Ms. Sarine"), a
professional member of the Institute of Internal Auditors
Malaysia (“IIAM”) with over 25 years of experience in risk
management, internal audit, and corporate governance
advisory services. The number of staff deployed for internal
audit reviews ranges from four (4) to five (5) per visit,
including the Engagement Director. These auditors hold
professional qualifications and/or university degrees, with
some being members of IIAM.
To strengthen internal oversight, the Group established an
in-house Internal Audit team headed by Ms. Ong Ying Yee, a
Chartered Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
with over 12 years of internal audit experience in the
manufacturing industry. She is supported by an auditor with
a university degree, and together they work in coordination
with the outsourced internal audit function to enhance audit
effectiveness.
All the internal audit staff, both outsourced and in-house,
are free from any relationships or conflict of interest, which
could impair their objectivity and independence.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
88
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
In accordance with the annual internal audit plan approved by the AC, the audited areas during FY2024 include strategic
planning, recurrent related party transaction, asset management and maintenance, sales and customer management,
procurement and supply chain, inventory management and cybersecurity control. Details of these audit areas are presented
in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control within this Annual Report.
The audits were performed using a risk-based approach and guidance from the International Professional Practice Framework.
The internal audit results comprising progress of previous auditable processes action plan were presented by the IA and
reviewed by the AC.
The total costs incurred for the IA function of the Group for the FY2024 was RM349,700.
Further details of the internal audit functions are available in the Annual Report under the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control.
89
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
Pursuant to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interest which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year ended or which were entered into since the end of the
previous financial year (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) except as disclosed below and in
Notes 35 to the financial statements under “Related Parties” on pages 168 to 169 of this Annual Report.
AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the Company
and the Group to the external auditors are as follows:
Company
(RM)
Group
(RM)
Audit services rendered 60,000 288,896
Non-audit services rendered 8,000 8,000
Total 68,000 296,896
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31 December
2024.
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
At the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on Wednesday, 26 June 2024, the Company obtained a shareholders’
mandate to allow the Group to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature. The disclosure
of the recurrent related party transactions conducted during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 is set out on pages
168-169 of the Annual Report.
90
Statement on Directors’ Responsibility 91
Directors’ Report 92
Statements of Financial Position 99
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income 101
Statement of Changes in Equity 103
Statements of Cash Flows 105
Notes to the Financial Statements 108
Statement by Directors 171
Statutory Declaration 171
Independent Auditors’ Report 172
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
List of Properties 176
Analysis on Shareholdings 179
Notice of the 21st Annual General Meeting 182
Administrative Details 189
* Proxy Form
OTHER INFORMATION
91
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENT ON DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
to issue a statement explaining the Board’s responsibility in preparing the annual financial statements.
In preparing the annual financial statements of the Company and the Group, the Directors are collectively responsible to ensure
that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”)
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the
financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended on that date.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024, the Directors have:
i) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
iii) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
iv)	
ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departure and explained in the financial
statements.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 14 April 2025.
92
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are manufacturing,
sale, exporting, trading and distribution of frozen food products, investment property, investment holding activities, rental of trucks,
engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing and exporting concentrated syrups
of various flavors as well as frozen fruit juices and information technology.
RESULTS
Group
RM
Company
RM
Profit for the financial year 31,417,999 40,874,262
In the opinion of the directors, the financial results of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDEND
The amount of dividends paid by the Company since the end of previous financial year were as follows:
In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024, an interim single tier dividend of 4.2 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM14,703,023 was declared on 6 March 2024 and paid on 2 April 2024.
In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024, a second interim single tier dividend of 2.8 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM9,687,351 was declared on 20 November 2024 and paid on 20 December 2024.
Subsequent to the end of the current financial year, the Board of Directors has approved a final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per
ordinary share totalling RM6,802,080 was declared on 24 February 2025 and paid on 27 March 2025 in respect of the financial year
ended 31 December 2024.
The final dividend will be accounted for in the shareholders’ equity as appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending
31 December 2025.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the
financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the issued and paid up share capital of the Company was increased from RM184,889,706 to RM187,531,472
by way of an issue of 1,454,852 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Options Scheme at an exercise price
of RM1.65 per ordinary share.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company.
The Company did not issue any new debentures during the financial year.
93
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart from the issue
of options pursuant to the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment of the ESOS of
not more than 15% of the issued share capital of the Company to eligible employees of the Group and of the Company.
The salient features of the ESOS are, inter alia, as follows:
(i) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years commencing from the effective date on or before the expiry thereof,
the Board of Directors shall have the sole and absolute discretion upon recommendation of the ESOS Committee, without the
Company’s shareholders’ approval in a general meeting, to extend in writing the tenure of the ESOS for another five (5) years,
or such shorter period as it deems fit immediately from the expiry of the first five (5) years, the ESOS shall not in aggregate
exceed ten (10) years from the effective date of 2 October 2018 or such longer period as may be allowed by the relevant
authorities;
On 20 March 2023, the Company had announced the extension of the duration of the ESOS for another 5 years from 2 October
2023 to 1 October 2028.
(ii) As of the date of offer, an employee who fulfils the following conditions shall be eligible to participate in the ESOS:
(a) has attained eighteen (18) years of age;
(b) is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to any bankruptcy proceedings;
(c) must have been confirmed in service and have served at least six (6) months in the employment of the Group and of
the Company;
(d) the employee is under an employment contract, which the contract is for a duration of at least one (1) year and shall
have not expired within three (3) months from the date of offer; and
(e) has fulfilled any other criteria as may be imposed by the ESOS Committee from time to time.
(iii) The exercise price shall be determined by ESOS Committee and shall be based on the five (5)-day Volume Weighted Average
Market Price (“VWAMP”) of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of offer, with a discount, if any, the such
discount shall not be more than ten percent (10%);
(iv) The shares issued and allocated pursuant to the exercise of the options shall, upon issuance and allotment rank pari-passu
in all respects with the then existing shares and be entitled to all rights (including voting, dividend, allotment, distribution,
transfer and other rights, as well as those arising on a liquidation of the Company) attaching to the then existing shares, save
and except that new shares so issued and allocated will not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments or other forms
of distribution which may be declared, made or paid, for which entitlement date is prior to the date allotment of such new
shares; and
(v) The eligible employees shall be entitled to exercise such number of the vested options within the option period and they shall
have no right to exercise all or any of the options that have been granted but not vested to them.
94
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES (CONTINUED)
The salient features of the Scheme are, inter alia, as follows: (continued)
The options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares is as follows:
Date of grant Expiry date
Number of options over ordinary shares
At
1.1.2024 Granted Exercised Recycled
At
31.12.2024
28.7.2023 25.1.2024 250,000 - (250,000) - -
16.10.2023 31.12.2026 27,960,000 - (1,204,852) (4,014,000) 22,741,148
18.12.2023 31.12.2026 1,800,000 - - - 1,800,000
19.9.2024 31.12.2027 - 2,835,000 - - 2,835,000
30,010,000 2,835,000 (1,454,852) (4,014,000) 27,376,148
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The directors of the Company who held office during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Gan Thiam Chai 						 (retired on 16 October 2024 and re-appointed on 9 April 2025)
Gan Ka Bien
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Gan Ka Hui 						 (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Gan Meng Hoi 						 (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz 				 (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Gan Ka Ooi						 (appointed on 16 October 2024)
Neel Naresh Nagrecha 					 (appointed on 24 February 2025)
Gan Thiam Hock 						 (retired on 1 October 2024)
Kwan Sok Kay 						 (retired on 1 October 2024)
DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of directors of the subsidiaries during the financial year and
up to the date of this report, excluding those who are already listed above are:
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lau Wing Hon
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
95
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than the
benefits shown under directors’ remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with a
director or with a firm of which a director is a member or with a company in which the director has a substantial financial interest,
other than certain directors, and the spouse of a director and children of certain directors who have significant financial interests
in companies which traded with certain companies within the Group in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 37 to
the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling directors of the Company
to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and
of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings
kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
At 1.1.2024/
date of
appointment Acquired (Disposed)
At
31.12.2024/
date of
retirement
THE COMPANY
Direct interest
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 10,137,028 - - 10,137,028
Gan Ka Bien - 242,440 - 242,440
Gan Meng Hoi 462,000 - - 462,000
Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 - - 22,462,133
Deemed interest
Gan Thiam Chai 126,257,402 - - 126,257,402
Gan Thiam Hock 3,010,666 18,000 - 3,028,666
Kwan Sok Kay 126,257,402 - - 126,257,402
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
96
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Number of share options over ordinary shares
At
1.1.2024
/date of
appointment Granted Exercised
At
31.12.2024
THE COMPANY
Direct Interest
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 450,000 - - 450,000
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor 450,000 - - 450,000
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud 450,000 - - 450,000
Eugene Hon Kah Weng 450,000 - - 450,000
Gan Ka Bien 4,800,000 - (242,440) 4,557,560
Gan Meng Hoi 102,000 - - 102,000
By virtue of their interests in the shares of the Company, the directors are also deemed to be interested in the shares of all the
subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
None of the other directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The amount of remuneration of the directors or past directors of the Company comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and the subsidiaries during the financial year are as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Executive directors
Fees 293,750 293,750
Salaries and bonuses 3,297,256 -
Defined contribution benefits 398,254 -
Benefits-in-kind 314,273 4,000
Meeting allowances 43,000 43,000
4,346,533 340,750
Non-executive directors
Fees 536,623 536,623
Salaries and bonuses 499,554 -
Defined contribution benefits 58,347 -
Benefits-in-kind 24,642 23,950
Meeting allowances 167,500 167,500
1,286,666 728,073
5,633,199 1,068,823
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
97
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the directors and the officers of
the Group and of the Company are RM20,000,000 and RM37,810 respectively.
No indemnity has been given to or insurance premium paid, during or since the end of financial year, for the auditors of the Group
and of the Company.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amounts paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors are as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- audit fees 288,896 60,000
- non-audit fees 8,000 8,000
296,896 68,000
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision for
doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that there were no known bad debts to be written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that the current assets which were unlikely to realise their values as shown in the accounting records in the
ordinary course of business had been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would require the write off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and
of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any
amount stated in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements misleading.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
98
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year which
secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the directors:
(i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of
twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the Company
to meet their obligations as and when they fall due; and
(ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the financial
year and the date of this report which is likely to substantially affect the results of the operations of the Group and of the
Company for the current financial year.
AUDITORS
The auditors, RSM Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI			 GAN KA BIEN
Selangor
14 April 2025
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
99
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 6 194,939,750 195,999,221 - -
Right-of-use assets 7 16,748,863 16,886,380 - -
Investment properties 8 7,556,253 7,702,092 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 9 - - 63,685,397 65,317,252
Investment in an associate 10 - - - -
Investment in a joint venture 11 2,238,674 2,600,000 - -
Other investments 12 - - 122,000,000 122,000,000
Deferred tax assets 13 - 464,119 - -
Total non-current assets 221,483,540 223,651,812 185,685,397 187,317,252
Current assets
Other investments 12 8,377,211 9,240,224 - -
Trade and other receivables 14 110,797,926 78,682,061 5,325,532 5,225,465
Inventories 15 37,399,506 36,429,562 - -
Current tax assets 1,358,585 3,106,097 503,053 1,527,130
Prepayments 6,550,387 5,345,260 40,326 21,648
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments 16 71,520,511 104,301,693 9,896,601 12,492,614
Total current assets 236,004,126 237,104,897 15,765,512 19,266,857
TOTAL ASSETS 457,487,666 460,756,709 201,450,909 206,584,109
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 17 187,531,472 184,889,706 187,531,472 184,889,706
Treasury shares 18 (38,380,837) (24,244,909) (38,380,837) (24,244,909)
Reserves 19 240,501,003 232,520,964 49,992,651 32,081,395
TOTAL EQUITY 389,651,638 393,165,761 199,143,286 192,726,192
100
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liability
Deferred tax liabilities 13 16,018,769 13,005,719 - -
Total non-current liability 16,018,769 13,005,719 - -
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 20 2,766,717 3,560,015 - -
Trade and other payables 21 49,050,542 50,833,424 2,307,623 13,857,917
Current tax liabilities - 191,790 - -
Total current liabilities 51,817,259 54,585,229 2,307,623 13,857,917
TOTAL LIABILITIES 67,836,028 67,590,948 2,307,623 13,857,917
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 457,487,666 460,756,709 201,450,909 206,584,109
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
101
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Revenue 22 317,548,594 287,215,315 44,365,099 18,181,788
Cost of sales (218,488,321) (205,148,099) - -
Gross profit 99,060,273 82,067,216 44,365,099 18,181,788
Other income 23 6,683,999 6,555,293 - 13,495
Selling and distribution expenses (28,511,923) (25,084,818) - -
Administrative expenses (34,409,514) (32,000,844) (2,796,258) (2,401,342)
Net(loss)/gain on foreign exchange (2,020,826) 2,336,759 (728,149) 1,273,656
Net gain/(loss) on impairment of financial assets 207,114 (92,795) - -
Profit from operating actvities 41,009,123 33,780,811 40,840,692 17,067,597
Finance income 24 1,199,590 1,165,003 98,535 112,935
Finance costs 25 (311,215) (207,781) (53,832) -
Share of loss of a joint venture 11 (361,326) - - -
Share of loss of associate 10 - (471,711) - -
Profit before taxation 26 41,536,172 34,266,322 40,885,395 17,180,532
Taxation 27 (10,118,173) (4,137,689) (11,133) -
Profit for the financial year 31,417,999 30,128,633 40,874,262 17,180,532
102
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS, NET OF TAX:
Item that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences for
foreign operations 28 (474,954) (100,530) - -
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 30,943,045 30,028,103 40,874,262 17,180,532
2024
sen
2023
sen
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE:
- Basic 29 9.03 8.37
- Diluted 29 8.42 8.18
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
103
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Total
equity
RM
Non-distributable Distributable
Share
capital
RM
Translation
reserve
RM
Share
option
reserve
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Group
Balance as at 1.1.2023 184,889,706 8,248,271 - (1,345,429) 205,075,276 396,867,824
Profit for the financial year - - - - 30,128,633 30,128,633
Other comprehensive loss for the financial year - (100,530) - - - (100,530)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial
year - (100,530) - - 30,128,633 30,028,103
Contributions by and distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 30 - - - - (13,021,188) (13,021,188)
- share options granted under ESOS 19 - - 2,190,502 - - 2,190,502
- share buy-back 18 - - - (22,899,480) - (22,899,480)
Total transactions with owners of the Company - - 2,190,502 (22,899,480) (13,021,188) (33,730,166)
Balance as at 31.12.2023/1.1.2024 184,889,706 8,147,741 2,190,502 (24,244,909) 222,182,721 393,165,761
Profit for the financial year - - - - 31,417,999 31,417,999
Other comprehensive loss for the financial year - (474,954) - - - (474,954)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial
year - (474,954) - - 31,417,999 30,943,045
Contributions by and distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 30 - - - - (24,390,374) (24,390,374)
- issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to ESOS 17 2,641,766 - - - - 2,641,766
- share options granted under ESOS 19 - - 1,427,368 - - 1,427,368
- share buy-back 18 - - - (14,135,928) - (14,135,928)
Total transactions with owners of the Company 2,641,766 - 1,427,368 (14,135,928) (24,390,374) (34,457,168)
Balance as at 31.12.2024 187,531,472 7,672,787 3,617,870 (38,380,837) 229,210,346 389,651,638
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
104
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Non-distributable Distributable
Total
equity
RM
Share
capital
RM
Share
option
reserve
RM
Treasury
shares
RM
Retained
earnings
RM
Company
Balance as at 1.1.2023 184,889,706 - (1,345,429) 25,731,549 209,275,826
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the financial year - - - 17,180,532 17,180,532
Contributions by and distributions
to owners
- dividend to owners of the
Company 30 - - - (13,021,188) (13,021,188)
- share options granted under
ESOS 19 - 2,190,502 - - 2,190,502
- share buy-back 18 - - (22,899,480) - (22,899,480)
Total transactions with owners of
the Company - 2,190,502 (22,899,480) (13,021,188) (33,730,166)
Balance as at 31.12.2023/1.1.2024 184,889,706 2,190,502 (24,244,909) 29,890,893 192,726,192
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the financial year - - - 40,874,262 40,874,262
Contributions by and distributions
to owners
- dividend to owners of the
Company 30 - - - (24,390,374) (24,390,374)
- issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to ESOS 17 2,641,766 - - - 2,641,766
- share options granted under
ESOS 19 - 1,427,368 - - 1,427,368
- share buy-back 18 - - (14,135,928) - (14,135,928)
Total transactions with owners of
the Company 2,641,766 1,427,368 (14,135,928) (24,390,374) (34,457,168)
Balance as at 31.12.2024 187,531,472 3,617,870 (38,380,837) 46,374,781 199,143,286
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
105
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before taxation 41,536,172 34,266,322 40,885,395 17,180,532
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of investment properties 8 145,839 145,838 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 18,407,353 19,162,255 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 7 338,638 338,613 - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 26 1,451,034 905,647 - -
Dividends income 22 - - (44,365,099) (18,181,788)
Employees' share options scheme expenses 26 1,427,368 2,190,502 1,427,368 2,190,502
Interest income 24 (1,199,590) (1,165,003) (98,535) (112,935)
Impairment loss on investment in subsidiaries 9 - - 1,001,571 -
Impairment loss on trade receivables 26 396,188 267,593 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables 26 (603,302) (174,798) - -
Provision for slow moving inventories 15 4,603,496 5,073,310 - -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer required 15 (2,713,547) (2,963,925) - -
Inventories written off 15 3,052,750 2,404,240 - -
Interest expense 25 117,318 207,781 - -
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and
equipment 26 1,912,371 (34,496) - -
Loss on disposal of investment in quoted shares 26 385,380 - - -
Loss from disposal of an associate 26 - 544,203 - -
Fair value loss on financial assets 26 477,633 558,812 - -
Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange 26 (1,199,356) (1,178,362) 728,149 (1,273,656)
Share of loss in a joint venture 26 361,326 - - -
Share of loss in an associate 26 - 471,711 - -
Operating profit/(loss) before working capital
changes 68,897,071 61,020,243 (421,151) (197,345)
Movement in inventories (5,970,254) 1,090,617 - -
Movement in trade and other receivables,
prepayments and other financial assets (32,896,889) (8,514,758) (46,580) 10,600,395
Movement in trade and other payables (67,785) 7,002,203 (92,367) 13,625,752
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 29,962,143 60,598,305 (560,098) 24,028,802
Dividends received - - 44,365,099 13,021,188
Income tax paid (7,061,258) (3,199,936) (71,056) (116,050)
Income tax refunded 1,120,751 1,638,571 1,084,000 1,076,819
Interest paid 25 (117,318) (207,781) - -
Interest received 24 1,199,590 1,165,003 98,535 112,935
Net cash generated from operating activities 25,103,908 59,994,162 44,916,480 38,123,694
106
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Advances to subsidiaries - - (72,165) -
Repayment from subsidiaries - - (11,457,927) -
Investment in a joint venture - (2,500,000) - -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment 2,974,318 611,928 - -
Proceeds from disposal of an associate - 600,000 - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (25,659,715) (5,824,333) - -
Placement in other investments - ( 7,000,000) - -
Net cash used in investing activities (22,685,397) (14,112,405) (11,530,092) -
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid to owners of the Company (24,390,374) (13,021,188) (24,390,374) (13,021,188)
Issuance of new shares 2,641,766 - 2,641,766 -
Repayment of loans and borrowings (634,517) (2,914,361) - -
Share buy-back (14,135,928) (22,899,480) (14,135,928) (22,899,480)
Net cash used in financing activities (36,519,053) (38,835,029) (35,884,536) (35,920,668)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS (34,100,542) 7,046,728 (2,498,148) 2,203,026
Effect of foreign exchange differences 1,319,360 (1,326,697) (97,865) 63,655
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BROUGHT FORWARD 104,301,693 98,581,662 12,492,614 10,225,933
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CARRIED FORWARD 16 71,520,511 104,301,693 9,896,601 12,492,614
107
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Term loans
At 1 January 3,560,015 6,398,772 - -
Cash flows:
Interest paid 25 (117,318) (207,781) - -
Repayments of borrowings (634,517) (2,914,361) - -
Non-cash changes:
Interest charged during the financial year 25 117,318 207,781 - -
Effect of movements in exchange rate (158,781) 75,604 - -
At 31 December 2,766,717 3,560,015 - -
Cash outflows for leases as lessee
Included in net cash from operating activities:
Payment relating to short-term leases 26 993,422 1,021,839 - -
Total cash outflows for leases 993,422 1,021,839 - -
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
108
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
1. PRINCIPAL ACITIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are
manufacturing, sale, exporting, trading and distribution of frozen food products, investment property, investment holding
activities, rental of trucks, engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing and
exporting concentrated syrups of various flavors as well as frozen fruit juices and information technology.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”) issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”), International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION
(a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In
addition, the directors are also required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving such judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 5. Although these estimates
and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results could differ from
those estimates.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that
control commences until the date that control ceases.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investment
includes transaction costs.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by
the Group.
(ii) Associate
Associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment
is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the investor’s share of
comprehensive income of the associate. On acquisition of the investment, the associate’s identifiable assets and
liabilities are measured at fair value. Any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net
fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill and included in the carrying
amount of the investment. Goodwill is tested for impairment together with the investment at the end of each
reporting period when there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired. Any excess of the Group’s
share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognised in
consolidated profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(ii) Associate (continued)
The Group’s share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss, and its share
of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
If the Group’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not
provide for additional losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Profits or losses on Group transactions with associate is eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
relevant associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained interest
plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant influence, any retained
interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any
gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the
profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related
assets or liabilities.
Investment in associate is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any impairment
losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments includes
transaction costs.
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders. Any difference between the
Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or
against Group reserves.
(iv) Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the former subsidiary,
any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the former subsidiary from the
consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in
profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as equity accounted investee or as a financial
asset at FVPL depending on the level of influence retained.
110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(v) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement (i.e. either a joint operation or a joint venture, depending on the rights and obligations of the
jointly controlling parties to the arrangement), is one in which the Group is party to an arrangement of which two
or more parties have joint control, which is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the arrangement; it exists
only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method less
any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution (or included in a disposal group that is
classified as held for sale or distribution). The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the
profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity-accounted joint ventures, after adjustments, if any, to
align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that joint control ceases.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, the carrying amount
of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition of further losses is
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the joint
venture.
Joint venture is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating policy
decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of
accounting.
Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
includes transaction costs.
(vi) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not attributable directly
or indirectly to the owners of the Company, are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position and
statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group are presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for the year
between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests
even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
(vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent
of the Group’s interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but
only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
111
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(c) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transaction
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are retranslated
to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of the
reporting period, except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at
the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising
on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive
income.
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a
foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and
losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation
and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation reserve
(“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
The assets and liabilities of operations in functional currencies other than RM, including goodwill and fair value
adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period,
except for goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the
date when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the Group and of the
Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of
the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the FCTR in
equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the
translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of such
that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign
operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant
proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only
part of its investment in a joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining joint control, the relevant
proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments
(i) Financial assets
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, the Group or the Company classify financial assets into two
measurement categories, namely: (i) financial assets at amortised cost (“AC”) and (ii) financial assets at fair
value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The classification is based on the Group’s and the Company’s business
model objective for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial
instruments.
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure financial assets, as follows:
(i) Financial assets at AC
A financial asset is measured at AC if: (a) it is held within the Group’s and the Company’s business objective
to hold the asset only to collect contractual cash flows, and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest in principal
outstanding.
(ii) Financial assets at FVPL
A financial asset is measured at FVPL if it is an equity investment, held for trading (including derivative
assets) or if it does not meet any of the condition specified for the AC model.
Other than financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, all other financial assets are subject to
review for impairment in accordance with Note 3(j)(i).
(ii) Financial liabilities
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure all financial liabilities at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, except for:
Financial guarantee contracts is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the
holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the
original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequently, they are measured at higher of: (a) the amount of the loss allowance; and (b) the amount initially
recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative of income recognised in accordance with the principles in
MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
(iii) Recognition of gains and losses
Fair value changes of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss are
recognised in profit or loss when they arise.
For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense are
recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. A gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss only
when the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process of
the instrument.
113
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments (continued)
(iv) Equity investments
The Group measures all equity investments at fair value. For equity investments at FVPL, changes in fair value are
recognised in profit or loss. Where the Group has elected to present the changes in fair value in other comprehensive
income, the amounts presented are not subsequently transferred to profit or loss when the equity investments are
derecognised. The cumulative gains or losses is transferred to retained profits instead. The election is made on
an instrument-by-instrument basis and it is irrevocable. The amount presented in other comprehensive income
includes the related foreign exchange gains or losses.
Dividend income from equity investments at FVPL and fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”)
is recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Group's right to receive payment has been established.
Changes in the fair value of equity investments at FVPL are recognised in other income or expenses, as applicable,
in the profit or loss. Impairment losses or reversal of impairment losses on equity instruments measured at FVOCI
are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.
(e) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that
equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the proceeds
from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net within “other
income” and “administrative expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual assets
are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset, then that
component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives of other property, plant and equipment for the current and previous years are as follows:
Buildings 40 to 50 years
Apartments 50 years
Motor vehicles 5 to 10 years
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 10 years
Renovation 10 years
Signage 10 years
114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(e) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(ii) Depreciation (continued)
Capital work in progress is not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.
(f) Leases
(i) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and
an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the
site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily
determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentive receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate
at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise; and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early.
The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of the underlying
asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which
the performance or use occurs.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease
payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
115
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(f) Leases (continued)
(i) Recognition and initial measurement (continued)
(b) As a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or
an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers substantially
all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease
is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15 to allocate the
consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.
(ii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
estimated useful lives of right-of-use asset are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant
and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and
adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of
in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected
to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will
exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the
right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been
reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on straight-line basis
over the lease term as part of “other income”.
(iii) Depreciation
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably
certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Leasehold lands are amortised over the
remaining lease periods ranging from 64 to 80 years.
The estimated useful life of leased assets for the current and previous years are as follows:
Prepaid lease payment 33 years
116
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(g) Investment properties
(i) Investment properties carried at cost
Investment properties are properties which are owned to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for
both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or
for administrative purposes. These include freehold land and leasehold land which in substance is a lease held
for a currently undetermined future use. Properties that are occupied by the Group are accounted for as owner-
occupied rather than as investment properties. Investment properties are measured at cost are accounted for
similarly to property, plant and equipment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment properties. The cost of
self-constructed investment properties includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly
attributable to bringing the investment properties to a working condition for their intended use and capitalised
borrowing costs. Right-of-use asset held under a lease contract that meets the definition of investment property
is initially measured similarly as other right-of-use assets.
An investment property is derecognised on disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future
economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 50 years for
buildings and over the remaining lease periods of 83 years for leasehold land. Freehold land is not depreciated.
(ii) Determination of fair value
The directors estimate the fair values of the Group’s investment properties without the involvement of independent
valuers.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged
on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction after proper
marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on the weighted average cost method, and includes expenditure incurred
in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing
location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads
based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to known amount of cash with insignificant risk of changes in fair value.
117
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets measured
at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses,
except for cash and bank balance. Loss allowances for trade receivables is always measured at an amount equal
to lifetime expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition
and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable
information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and
qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
and including forward-looking information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
expected life of the asset, while 12 months expected losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group and the Company are
exposed to credit risk.
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision matrix
with reference to historical credit loss experiences.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss and
the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised cost are
credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on
the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there is
no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the Company determine that
the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generated sufficient cash flows to repay the
amounts subject to write-off. However, financial assets that are written-off could still be subject to enforcement
activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery amounts due.
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amount of the other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets) are reviewed at the end
of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists,
then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful
lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each period at the same time.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or
cash generating units. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is
allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(j) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Other assets (continued)
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value
less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset or the cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses
are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units (groups of
cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the cash-generating unit
(groups of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised
in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications that the loss has decreased
or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine
the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the
extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined,
net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses
are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.
(k) Share-based payments
Share-based payments of the Group and of the Company are equity-settled share options granted to employees, for
which an option pricing model is used to estimate the fair value at grant date. That fair value is charged on a straight-
line basis as an expense in the profit or loss over the period that the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the
options (vesting period), with a corresponding increase in equity.
The number of such options is adjusted annually to reflect best estimates of those expected to vest (ignoring purely
market-based conditions) with consequent changes to the expense. Equity is also increased by the proceeds receivable,
as and when employees choose to exercise their options.
If the Group and the Company modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, as a
minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted (unless those
equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition other than a market condition) are
charged to the profit or loss.
Cancellations of grants of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by forfeiture when
the vesting conditions are not satisfied) are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting, therefore the unrecognised
remaining amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
119
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(l) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred
when (or as) the customer obtains control of the assets.
The Group transfers control of goods or services at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria is
met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
(b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or
enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration which the Group expects to receive, based on the list price
applicable to a given distribution channel after deduction of returns, trade discounts, rebates and price promotions
to consumers. The level of discounts, allowances and promotional rebates is recognised as a deduction from
revenue at the time that the related sales are recognised or when the rebate is offered to the customer (or
consumer if applicable). They are estimated using judgements based on historical experience and the specific
terms of the agreements with the customers.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is
established.
(iii) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the
lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other income.
(iv) Finance income
Finance income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss except for finance
income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically for the purpose of obtaining a
qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with accounting policy on borrowing costs.
120
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(m) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of
the cost of those assets.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying
assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS
4.1 Amendments to MFRSs adopted
For the preparation of the financial statements, the following amendments to the MFRSs issued by the MASB are
mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2024:
• Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases - Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
• Amendments to MFRS 107 Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures -
Supplier Finance Arrangements
The adoption of the above-mentioned amendments to MFRSs has no significant impact on the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company.
4.2 New MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs not yet effective
The following are new MFRSs and amendments to the MFRSs that have been issued by the MASB up to the date of the
issuance of the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements but have not been adopted by the Group and the
Company:
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025
• Amendments to MFRS 121 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates - Lack of Exchangeability
Amendments to MFRS effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026
• Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Amendments to the
Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
• Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Contracts
Referencing Nature-dependent Electricity
• Annual Improvement to MFRS Accounting Standards - Volume 11
New MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027
• MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
• MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures
121
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED)
4.2 New MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs not yet effective (continued)
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investment in Associates and Joint
Ventures - Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
The directors anticipate that the above-mentioned new MFRSs and amendments will be adopted by the Group and the
Company when they become effective.
The initial application of the new MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs is not expected to have any significant impact on
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
In preparing its financial statements, the Group and the Company have made significant judgements, estimates and
assumptions that impact on the carrying value of certain assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as other information
reported in the notes. The Group and the Company periodically monitor such estimates and assumptions and makes sure
they incorporate all relevant information available at the date when financial statements are prepared. However, this does
not prevent actual figures differing from estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies that have the most
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and the estimates and assumptions that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year
are addressed below.
(a) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group and the Company assess whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each
reporting date. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its
recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The carrying amount of the non-financial assets are disclosed in Notes 6 to 11 respectively.
(b) Loss allowances of financial assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial
asset is impaired. To determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment, the Group and the Company consider
factors such as the probability of insolvency, significant financial difficulties of the receivables, default or significant
delay in payments, current economic trends and forward-looking information that is available.
Where there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount and timing of future cash flows are estimated based on
historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
122
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS (CONTINUED)
(c) Net realisable value of inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is written down to their
estimated realisable value when their cost may no longer be recoverable such as when inventories are damaged
or become wholly or partly obsolete or their selling prices have declined. In any case, the realisable value represents
the best estimate of the recoverable amount, is based on the most reliable evidence available at the reporting date
and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected realisable value. The benchmarks for determining the
amount of write-downs to net realisable value include ageing analysis, technical assessment and subsequent events.
In general, such an evaluation process requires significant judgement and may materially affect the carrying amount
of inventories at the reporting date (as reflected in Note 15).
(d) Rebates and promotions accruals
Rebates and promotions accruals of approximately RM8.1 million (2023: RM6.2 million), which consists primarily of
conditional rebates and promotions, are based on agreed trading terms and promotional activities with trade customers
and distributors. Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the expected rebates,
promotional activities and historical experience based on estimated sales volume. These accruals are reported within
trade and other payables (Note 21). The estimates for these accruals are regularly reviewed by senior management of
the Company.
123
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Buildings
RM
Apartments
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Furniture,
fittings
and office
equipment
RM
Plant and
machinery
RM
Renovations
RM
Signage
RM
Capital
work in
progress
RM
Total
RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2023 120,844,476 515,912 5,985,130 15,489,924 170,591,973 8,588,466 287,029 4,264,837 326,567,747
Additions - - 1,010,822 517,958 3,718,125 - - 577,428 5,824,333
Disposals - - (162,095) (10,350) - - - (577,428) (749,873)
Written off - - - - (277,504) - - (628,143) (905,647)
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates 504,024 - 26,429 355,141 237,997 - - - 1,123,591
Reclassification - - - 53,255 3,164,373 - - (3,217,628) -
At 31 December
2023/
1 January 2024 121,348,500 515,912 6,860,286 16,405,928 177,434,964 8,588,466 287,029 419,066 331,860,151
Additions - - - 498,863 24,262,927 896,425 1,500 - 25,659,715
Disposals - - (1,437,002) - (15,730,068) - - - (17,167,070)
Written off - - (460,714) (165,673) (7,261,458) - - - (7,887,845)
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates (1,199,356) - (62,889) (128,166) (1,277,442) - - - (2,667,853)
Reclassification - - - - 341,990 - - (341,990) -
At 31 December
2024 120,149,144 515,912 4,899,681 16,610,952 177,770,913 9,484,891 288,529 77,076 329,797,098
124
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Buildings
RM
Apartments
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Furniture,
fittings
and office
equipment
RM
Plant and
machinery
RM
Renovations
RM
Signage
RM
Capital
work in
progress
RM
Total
RM
Group
Accumulated
depreciation
At 1 January 2023 14,617,855 188,872 3,590,654 9,079,562 81,896,157 6,189,576 139,903 - 115,702,579
Charge for the
financial year 2,423,004 10,741 1,080,773 1,701,563 13,553,211 368,240 24,723 - 19,162,255
Disposals - - (162,092) (10,349) - - - - (172,441)
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates 126,881 - 22,592 34,975 382,135 - - - 566,583
Transfer from
right-of-use
assets - - - 119,339 - - - - 119,339
At 31 December
2023/
1 January 2024 17,167,740 199,613 4,531,927 10,925,090 95,831,503 6,557,816 164,626 - 135,378,315
Charge for the
financial year 2,197,523 10,741 869,918 1,301,981 13,628,857 373,611 24,722 - 18,407,353
Disposals - - (1,384,803) - (10,895,578) - - - (12,280,381)
Written off - - (403,084) (129,824) (5,903,903) - - - (6,436,811)
Reclass of
impairment
loss - - - - 458,226 - - - 458,226
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates (69,012) - (40,164) 52,957 (726,443) - - - (782,662)
Transfer from
right-of-use
assets - - - 113,308 - - - - 113,308
At 31 December
2024 19,296,251 210,354 3,573,794 12,263,512 92,392,662 6,931,427 189,348 - 134,857,348
125
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Buildings
RM
Apartments
RM
Motor
vehicles
RM
Furniture,
fittings
and office
equipment
RM
Plant and
machinery
RM
Renovations
RM
Signage
RM
Capital
work in
progress
RM
Total
RM
Group
Accumulated
impairment
loss
At 1 January 2023 - - - - 472,366 - - - 472,366
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates - - - - 10,249 - - - 10,249
At 31 December
2023/
1 January 2024 - - - - 482,615 - - - 482,615
Reclass of
impairment loss - - - - (458,226) - - - (458,226)
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates - - - - (24,389) - - - (24,389)
At 31 December
2024 - - - - - - - - -
Carrying amounts
At 31 December
2023 104,180,760 316,299 2,328,359 5,480,838 81,120,846 2,030,650 122,403 419,066 195,999,221
At 31 December
2024 100,852,893 305,558 1,325,887 4,347,440 85,378,251 2,553,464 99,181 77,076 194,939,750
(a) Apartments
The strata title for apartments with net carrying amount of RM142,597 (2023: RM147,586) have yet to be issued to a
subsidiary.
(b) Security
Buildings with net carrying amount of RM17,142,311 (2023: RM18,054,702) have been charge to licensed banks for banking
facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).
126
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold
lands
RM
Prepaid lease
payments
RM
Total
RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2023 16,737,790 4,052,209 20,789,999
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 87,922 87,922
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 16,737,790 4,140,131 20,877,921
Effect of movements in exchange rates - (209,221) (209,221)
At 31 December 2024 16,737,790 3,930,910 20,668,700
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023 2,442,500 1,296,708 3,739,208
Charge for the financial year 201,066 137,547 338,613
Transfer to property, plant and equipment - (119,339) (119,339)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 33,059 33,059
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 2,643,566 1,347,975 3,991,541
Charge for the financial year 201,068 137,570 338,638
Transfer to property, plant and equipment - (113,308) (113,308)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - (297,034) (297,034)
At 31 December 2024 2,844,634 1,075,203 3,919,837
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 14,094,224 2,792,156 16,886,380
At 31 December 2024 13,893,156 2,855,707 16,748,863
(a) Lands
The lands are wholly related to leasehold lands with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
(b) Prepaid lease payments
The prepaid lease payments are wholly related to a leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years.
The prepaid lease payments are not transferable and have a remaining tenure of 32 years (2023: 33 years).
(c) Security
Certain leasehold lands and certain prepaid lease payments with net carrying amount of RM15,403,943 (2023:
RM15,514,316) have been charged to licensed banks banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).
127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Cost
At 1 January/31 December 10,491,946 10,491,946
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2,789,854 2,644,016
Charge for the financial year 145,839 145,838
At 31 December 2,935,693 2,789,854
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 7,556,253 7,702,092
Represented by:
Leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years 5,649,436 5,730,845
Buildings 1,906,817 1,971,247
7,556,253 7,702,092
Investment properties comprise two (2023: two) commercial properties that are leased to third parties. The leases are
renewable on yearly basis. No contingent is charged.
The fair value of the investment properties are as follows:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
At 31 December 24,365,100 24,365,100
The Group estimates the fair value of its investment properties based on the comparison of the Group’s investment properties
with similar properties that were listed for sale within the same locality or other comparable localities.
The disclosure of fair value above was measured at the reporting date using the following method:
Significant unobservable inputs (Level 2)
The valuation of commercial property is based on market comparable approach. The significant unobservable input is yield
adjustment based on directors’ assumptions. The yield adjustments are made for any difference in the nature, location or
condition of the specific property.
128
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
Significant unobservable inputs (Level 2) (continued)
The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Rental income (1,563,908) (1,608,096)
Direct operating expenses 129,806 129,806
Investment properties of the Group amounting to RM7,556,253 (2023: RM7,702,092) has been charged to a licensed bank for
credit facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 20).
The operating lease payments to be received are as follows:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Less than one year 1,471,052 1,566,284
One to two years 1,142,784 2,709,068
More than two years 1,047,552 1,047,552
Total undiscounted lease payments 3,661,388 5,322,904
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 37,578,006 37,578,006
Less: Impairment loss
At 1 January - -
Impairment loss recognised for the financial year (1,001,571) -
At 31 December (1,001,571) -
36,576,435 37,578,006
Capital contribution 20,730,322 20,730,322
Effect of movements in exchange rates 6,378,640 7,008,924
63,685,397 65,317,252
129
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Subsidiaries of the
Company
Effective
ownership
interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2024
%
2023
%
Kawan Food Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
100 100 Malaysia Manufacturing and sale of frozen food products.
KG Pastry Marketing Sdn.
Bhd.
100 100 Malaysia Investment property and rental of trucks.
Kawan Food Confectionery
Sdn. Bhd.
100 100 Malaysia Investment holding.
Kawan Food (Hong Kong)
Limited*#
100 100 Hong Kong Trading and distribution of frozen food products.
KLBG Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Manufacturing and exporting of frozen food
products.
Subsidiary of Kawan Food
(Hong Kong) Limited
Kawan Food (Nantong) Co.,
Ltd.@
100 100 The People’s
Republic of China
Manufacturing and trading of frozen food
delicacies.
Subsidiary of Kawan Food
Confectionery Sdn. Bhd.
Tian Beverages Sdn. Bhd. 100 - Malaysia Engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in
manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing
and exporting concentrated syrups of various
flavors as well as frozen fruit juices.
Subsidiary of KG Pastry
Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
Reka Innotech Sdn. Bhd.
(Dormant)
100 - Malaysia Investment holding and information technology.
* Audited by other member firms of RSM International.
# The capital contribution to Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited are interest free and are determined to form part of the
Company’s net investment in the subsidiary, hence are deemed as quasi-equity.
@ Not audited by member firms of RSM International.
During the financial year, Tian Beverages Sdn. Bhd. and Reka Innotech Sdn. Bhd. were incorporated on 24 April 2024 and 28
November 2024 respectively and held via its wholly own subsidiaries.
As certain subsidiaries reported continuous operating losses, the Company has determined that there is indicator of
impairment and subsequently assessed the recoverable amount. As a result of this assessment, management has concluded
that the recoverable amount of its investment in KLBG Sdn. Bhd. as of 31 December 2024 is lower than its carrying amount.
Hence, an impairment loss of RM1,001,571 has been recognised for the current financial year.
130
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
In the previous financial year, the Group disposed its entire 32.5% equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd., for a total cash
consideration of RM600,000. As at 31 December 2023, the amount was held by the solicitor as a stakeholder, pursuant to the
shares sale and purchase agreement. This amount was subsequently received from the solicitor on 16 April 2024.
The associate was accounted for using the equity method by the Group based on management accounts as at 30 September
2023.
The following table summarises the unaudited information of the Group’s material associate:
Kejap Food
Sdn. Bhd.
2023
RM
Summarised financial information
As at 30 September
Non-current assets 1,896,831
Current assets 4,379,949
Non-current liabilities (463,853)
Current liabilities (852,916)
Net assets 4,960,011
As at 30 September
Revenue 2,140,560
Loss and total comprehensive loss for the financial year (1,659,578)
Group’s share of results
As at 30 September
Group’s share of loss and total comprehensive other comprehensive loss for the financial year (471,711)
11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 2,600,000 2,600,000
Share of post-acquisition loss (361,326) -
2,238,674 2,600,000
131
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE (CONTINUED)
Details of the joint venture are as follows:
Joint venture of the Group
Effective
ownership interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2024
%
2023
%
Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd. *^# 40 40 Malaysia Venture into biocompost business
* On 9 November 2023, the Group has subscribed 2,500,000 redeemable preference shares in Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. for
a total cash consideration of RM2,500,000. Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. is the subsidiary of Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd.
^ On 16 December 2022, the Group has established and registered a joint venture company with Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd.
On 20 January 2023, the Group had via one of its wholly own subsidiaries, entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with
Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd., which is the counterparty of the joint venture.
# No summarised financial information has been disclosed as the directors of the Group regarded the financial information
as immaterial to the Group.
12. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Shares
quoted in
Malaysia
RM
Group
2024
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8,377,211
Market value of quoted investments 8,377,211
2023
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 9,240,224
Market value of quoted investments 9,240,224
132
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
12. OTHER INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
Non-current
At cost
Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares (Unquoted shares) 122,000,000 122,000,000
Dividends recognised in profit or loss 5,294,800 5,160,600
13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Group
Property, plant and equipment - - (19,867,016) (17,000,691) (19,867,016) (17,000,691)
Provisions 4,210,157 3,510,945 - - 4,210,157 3,510,945
Others (361,910) 948,146 - - (361,910) 948,146
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 3,848,247 4,459,091 (19,867,016) (17,000,691) (16,018,769) (12,541,600)
Set off (3,848,247) (3,994,972) 3,848,247 3,994,972 - -
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) - 464,119 (16,018,769) (13,005,719) (16,018,769) (12,541,600)
133
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the financial year:
At
1.1.2023
RM
Recognisedin
profitorloss
(Note27)
RM
Recognisedin
other
comprehensive
loss
(Note28)
RM
At
31.12.2023/
1.1.2024
RM
Recognisedin
profitorloss
(Note27)
RM
Recognisedin
other
comprehensive
income
(Note28)
RM
At
31.12.2024
RM
Group
Property, plant and
equipment (19,952,205) 2,951,564 - (17,000,641) (3,159,803) - (20,160,444)
Provisions 3,269,766 241,179 - 3,510,945 (1,722,535) - 1,788,410
Others 4,443,850 (3,495,704) (50) 948,096 1,405,141 28 2,353,265
(12,238,589) (302,961) (50) (12,541,600) (3,477,197) 28 (16,018,769)
As at 31 December 2024, the Group has the following deferred tax assets which are not recognised in the financial statements
due to uncertainty in the availability of future taxable income:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Property, plant and equipment (939) (2,489)
Unabsorbed capital allowances 114,880 114,339
Unutilised tax losses 311,751 283,612
425,692 395,462
As at 31 December 2024, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances and unutilised tax losses of approximately RM478,667
(2023: RM476,413) and RM1,298,963 (2023: RM1,181,716) respectively, which are available to set off against future chargeable
income.
The unabsorbed capital allowances are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits.
With effect from year of assessment (“YA”) 2019, the period for unutilised tax losses carried forward is limited to 10 consecutive
YAs. Any balance of unutilised tax losses after the end of the period of 10 consecutive YAs is to be disregarded.
134
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
YA2019 Disregarded from YA2029 300,817 300,817
YA2020 Disregarded from YA2030 532,821 532,821
YA2021 Disregarded from YA2031 106,248 106,248
YA2022 Disregarded from YA2032 177,611 177,611
YA2023 Disregarded from YA2033 64,219 64,219
YA2024 Disregarded from YA2034 117,247 -
1,298,963 1,181,716
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that the subsidiaries will be
able to generate sufficient taxable profits to utilise them.
14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Trade
Trade receivables (a) 110,368,688 77,431,605 - -
Less: Impairment loss
- Individual impairment losses (887,327) (1,122,348) - -
- Collective impairment losses (629,947) (555,269) - -
Effect of movements in exchange rates 38,470 (46,771) - -
108,889,884 75,707,217 - -
Non-trade
Amount due from subsidiaries (b) - - 5,295,630 5,223,465
Other receivables 1,908,042 2,974,844 29,902 2,000
1,908,042 2,974,844 5,325,532 5,225,465
110,797,926 78,682,061 5,325,532 5,225,465
(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days (2023: 30 to 90 days) terms. They are
recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial recognition.
Included in trade receivables of the Group is amount of RM20,022,142 (2023: RM12,400,369) due from companies in which
certain directors have interests and held directorship.
(b) Amount due from subsidiaries
Amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, interest free and receivable on demand.
135
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
15. INVENTORIES
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
At cost
Raw materials 4,365,987 3,795,723
Packing materials 3,552,059 5,126,210
Finished goods 27,562,507 23,996,626
Spare parts 6,032,605 5,920,669
Goods-in-transit 489,844 303,881
42,003,002 39,143,109
Less: Allowance for slow moving inventories
At beginning of the financial year (2,713,547) (604,162)
Allowance during the financial year (4,603,496) (5,073,310)
Allowance no longer required 2,713,547 2,963,925
At end of the financial year (4,603,496) (2,713,547)
37,399,506 36,429,562
Recognised in profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 191,425,234 177,720,492
Inventories written off 3,052,750 2,404,240
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Money market funds with licensed fund
management companies
- redeemable at call 412,787 452,180 211,107 206,545
- redeemable upon 1 day notice 15,694,839 40,562,580 2,072,987 1,870,672
16,107,626 41,014,760 2,284,094 2,077,217
Cash and bank balances 55,412,885 63,286,933 7,612,507 10,415,397
71,520,511 104,301,693 9,896,601 12,492,614
136
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
17. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amount
2024 2023 2024
RM
2023
RM
Issued and fully paid with no par value
At 1 January 362,581,760 362,581,760 184,889,706 184,889,706
Issued for cash under Employees’ Share Option
Scheme 1,454,852 - 2,641,766 -
At 31 December 364,036,612 362,581,760 187,531,472 184,889,706
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per
share at meetings of the Company.
During the financial year, the issued and paid up share capital of the Company was increased from RM184,889,706 to
RM187,531,472 by way of an issue of 1,454,852 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Options Scheme
at an exercise price of RM1.65 per ordinary share.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of
the Company.
18. TREASURY SHARES
Group and Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
At cost
At 1 January (24,244,909) (1,345,429)
Acquired during the financial year (14,135,928) (22,899,480)
At 31 December (38,380,837) (24,244,909)
The shares purchased can be retained as treasury shares, distributed as dividend, transferred, resold or subsequently
cancelled in accordance with Section 127 of the Companies Act 2016.
137
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)
During the financial year, the Company repurchased its shares of 8,188,300 (2023: 12,275,100) ordinary shares with total
consideration of RM14,135,928 (2023: RM22,899,480) as follows:
Date
Number of
shares
Purchase
price
Total
consideration
paid
(RM)
24 January 2024 26,500 1.8312 48,527
26 January 2024 13,300 1.8200 24,206
31 January 2024 31,500 1.8486 58,231
5 February 2024 20,300 1.8170 36,885
6 February 2024 25,500 1.8456 47,063
8 February 2024 90,300 1.8494 167,001
2 April 2024 59,000 1.8003 106,218
3 April 2024 103,900 1.8260 189,721
4 April 2024 50,600 1.8300 92,598
5 April 2024 118,100 1.8297 216,088
8 April 2024 93,700 1.8297 171,443
9 April 2024 191,800 1.8274 350,495
12 April 2024 100,000 1.8298 182,980
15 April 2024 105,600 1.8295 193,195
16 April 2024 70,900 1.8288 129,662
17 April 2024 33,000 1.8297 60,380
19 April 2024 130,600 1.8242 238,241
22 April 2024 257,400 1.8220 468,983
24 April 2024 26,300 1.8083 47,558
10 May 2024 111,300 1.7967 199,973
10 May 2024 225,000 1.7984 404,640
10 May 2024 282,700 1.7958 507,673
10 May 2024 96,000 1.7879 171,638
7 June 2024 46,300 1.7857 82,678
18 June 2024 292,100 1.7809 520,201
27 June 2024 183,000 1.7676 323,471
11 July 2024 20,000 1.7700 35,400
12 July 2024 21,800 1.7769 38,736
15 July 2024 204,000 1.7686 360,794
16 July 2024 1,000 1.7700 1,770
25 July 2024 68,800 1.7425 119,884
31 July 2024 68,500 1.7329 118,704
1 August 2024 30,000 1.7368 52,104
2 August 2024 52,300 1.7300 90,479
5 August 2024 171,100 1.6913 289,381
6 August 2024 51,400 1.6995 87,354
7 August 2024 36,600 1.6957 62,063
8 August 2024 7,700 1.6851 12,975
14 August 2024 22,200 1.7200 38,184
16 August 2024 4,200 1.7000 7,140
19 August 2024 9,200 1.7100 15,732
138
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)
Date
Number of
shares
Purchase
price
Total
consideration
paid
(RM)
20 August 2024 8,200 1.7200 14,104
21 August 2024 2,200 1.7300 3,806
23 August 2024 19,300 1.7000 32,810
26 August 2024 9,500 1.7200 16,340
27 August 2024 15,500 1.6993 26,339
28 August 2024 18,800 1.7000 31,960
29 August 2024 44,600 1.6922 75,472
2 September 2024 22,200 1.6881 37,476
6 September 2024 31,400 1.6728 52,526
9 September 2024 23,200 1.6813 39,006
12 September 2024 51,600 1.6791 86,642
13 September 2024 20,200 1.6784 33,904
17 September 2024 20,800 1.6825 34,996
18 September 2024 42,900 1.6877 72,402
20 September 2024 140,000 1.6886 236,404
23 September 2024 12,100 1.6900 20,449
25 September 2024 16,000 1.7100 27,360
27 September 2024 1,200 1.7100 2,052
30 September 2024 500 1.7100 855
1 October 2024 27,000 1.7100 46,170
3 October 2024 1,900 1.7100 3,249
4 October 2024 9,700 1.7100 16,587
7 October 2024 6,000 1.7100 10,260
9 October 2024 5,000 1.7200 8,600
10 October 2024 5,200 1.7200 8,944
16 October 2024 48,000 1.6986 81,533
22 October 2024 54,000 1.7103 92,356
24 October 2024 112,900 1.7021 192,167
25 October 2024 3,500 1.7120 5,992
28 October 2024 210,000 1.6995 356,895
29 October 2024 2,900 1.7000 4,930
6 November 2024 70,400 1.6970 119,469
11 November 2024 17,000 1.6970 28,849
12 November 2024 6,000 1.6970 10,182
21 November 2024 34,500 1.6970 58,547
22 November 2024 11,800 1.6970 20,025
26 November 2024 15,600 1.6970 26,473
2 December 2024 28,500 1.7000 48,450
3 December 2024 177,000 1.7000 300,900
4 December 2024 812,700 1.6984 1,380,290
5 December 2024 15,000 1.6933 25,400
6 December 2024 600,000 1.6773 1,006,380
9 December 2024 365,200 1.6552 604,479
10 December 2024 268,600 1.6598 445,822
139
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)
Date
Number of
shares
Purchase
price
Total
consideration
paid
(RM)
12 December 2024 182,000 1.6582 301,792
17 December 2024 8,000 1.6500 13,200
18 December 2024 224,700 1.6496 370,665
19 December 2024 206,400 1.6500 340,560
23 December 2024 25,400 1.6500 41,910
24 December 2024 229,500 1.6500 378,675
30 December 2024 236,100 1.6300 384,843
31 December 2024 114,100 1.6300 185,983
8,188,300 14,135,928
At the reporting date, the number of outstanding shares in issue after setting off the treasury shares against equity was
342,691,112 (2023: 349,424,560).
19. RESERVES
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Non-distributable:
Foreign currency translation reserve 7,672,787 8,147,741 - -
ESOS share options reserve 3,617,870 2,190,502 3,617,870 2,190,502
11,290,657 10,338,243 3,617,870 2,190,502
Distributable:
Retained earnings 229,210,346 222,182,721 46,374,781 29,890,893
240,501,003 232,520,964 49,992,651 32,081,395
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”).
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
At 1 January 8,147,741 8,248,271
Foreign currency translation during the financial year (474,954) (100,530)
At 31 December 7,672,787 8,147,741
140
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Share option reserve
The share option reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of share options. When
the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital. When the share options
expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Share-based payments arrangement
Share option programme (equity settled)
On 31 May 2018, the shareholders of the Company approved the Employees’ Share Options Scheme. In accordance with this
programme, holders of vested options are entitled to purchase shares at the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
The terms and conditions related to the grant of the share option scheme are as follows; all options are to be settled by
physical delivery of shares:
Grant date/employee entitled
Number of
options
Contractual life
of options Exercisable period
2024
Option granted to eligible employees on
19 September 2024 945,000 3 years 1 January 2025 to 31 December 2027
Option granted to eligible employees on
19 September 2024 945,000 2 years 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2027
Option granted to eligible employees on
19 September 2024 945,000 1 year 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027
Total share options 2,835,000
2023
Option granted to eligible employees on
28 July 2023 250,000 0.5 year 28 July 2023 to 25 January 2024
Option granted to eligible employees on
16 October 2023 9,320,000 3 years 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2026
Option granted to eligible employees on
16 October 2023 9,320,000 2 years 1 January 2025 to 31 December 2026
Option granted to eligible employees on
16 October 2023 9,320,000 1 year 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2026
Option granted to eligible employees on
18 December 2023 1,800,000 3 years 18 December 2023 to 31 December 2026
Total share options 30,010,000
No vesting conditions for options offered.
141
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments arrangement (continued)
Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)
The number and weighted average exercise process of shares options are as follows:
2024
Number of
options
2023
Number of
options
Outstanding at 1 January 30,010,000 -
Granted during the financial year 2,835,000 30,010,000
Exercised during the financial year (1,454,852) -
Recycled during the financial year (4,014,000) -
Outstanding at 31 December 27,376,148 30,010,000
Exercisable at 31 December 8,631,148 2,050,000
During the financial year, the share options granted have an exercise price of RM1.65 to RM1.69 (2023: RM1.660 to RM1.6925) and
contractual life of 3 years (2023: 0.5 to 3 years).
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options granted,
measured using trinomial option pricing model, with the following inputs:
2024
RM
2023
RM
Fair value of share options and assumptions
Fair value at grant date 0.1754 0.1911 to 0.1978
Weighted average share price 1.681 1.866 to 1.872
Share price at grant date 1.65to1.69 1.66 to 1.69
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility) 16.99% 25.17% to 27.00%
Options life (expected weighted average life) 3years 0.50 to 3 years
Expected dividends 2.49% 1.92% to 1.94%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysia Government Securities) 3.334% 3.333% to 3.636%
Value of employee services received for issue of share options:
Group and Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
Share options granted 1,427,368 2,190,502
Total expenses recognised as shared-based payments 1,427,368 2,190,502
142
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
20. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Term loans
Classified as:
- current liability 2,766,717 3,560,015
Present value of term loans
Analysed as follows:
- not later than 1 year 2,766,717 3,560,015
The Group’s term loans are secured over certain leasehold lands and certain buildings of subsidiaries and subject to interest
at rates ranging from 1.15% to 1.34% (2023: 1.15% to 1.34%) per annum (Notes 6, 7 and 8).
21. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Trade
Trade payables (a) 20,932,194 27,090,602 - -
Non-trade
Other payables 7,044,914 7,618,974 28,972 154,127
Accruals 21,073,434 16,123,848 135,868 103,080
Amount due to a subsidiary (b) - - 2,142,783 13,600,710
28,118,348 23,742,822 2,307,623 13,857,917
49,050,542 50,833,424 2,307,623 13,857,917
(a) Trade payables
(i) Credit terms of trade payables are ranging from 30 to 60 days (2023: 30 to 60 days).
(ii) Included in trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM420,502 (2023: RM288,788) due to companies in which
certain directors have interests.
(b) Amount due to a subsidiary
Amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
143
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
22. REVENUE
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Revenue from contracts with customers 317,548,594 287,215,315 - -
Others
- dividends - - 44,365,099 18,181,788
317,548,594 287,215,315 44,365,099 18,181,788
Revenue from contracts with customers in primary
geographical markets
Malaysia 135,986,336 129,706,320 44,365,099 18,181,788
North America 75,679,728 56,117,961 - -
Rest of Asia 47,034,541 50,947,926 - -
Europe 43,058,442 34,545,789 - -
Oceania 14,372,644 14,059,173 - -
Africa 1,416,903 1,838,146 - -
317,548,594 287,215,315 44,365,099 18,181,788
Timing of recognition
At a point in time 317,548,594 287,215,315 44,365,099 18,181,788
Nature
of goods
Timing of
recognition
Significant
payment terms
Variable element
in consideration
Obligation for
returns or refund Warranty
Frozen food
products
Revenue is
recognised
upon transfer
of significant
risk and reward
of ownership of
the goods to the
customer
Local sales:
Credit period of
30 to 90 days
from invoice date
Export sales:
Telegraphic
transfer at sight
and telegraphic
transfer 90 days
from bill of lading
date
Discounts,
rebates and
incentives
are given to
customers on
a case-by case
basis.
Not applicable Not applicable
144
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
23. OTHER INCOME
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Rental income 4,704,956 4,983,610 - -
Other income 1,979,043 1,571,683 - 13,495
6,683,999 6,555,293 - 13,495
24. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Interest income of financial assets calculated using
the effective interest method that are at fair value
through profit or loss:
- money market funds with licensed fund
management companies 1,199,590 1,165,003 98,535 112,935
25. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Interest expense of financial liabilities that are not at
fair value through profit or loss:
- term loans, secured 117,318 207,781 - -
Bank charges 193,897 - 53,832 -
311,215 207,781 53,832 -
145
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
26. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON
Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting):
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- audit fees 288,896 271,537 60,000 56,500
- non-audit fees 8,000 8,000 8,000 8,000
Depreciation of investment properties 145,839 145,838 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18,407,353 19,162,255 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 338,638 338,613 - -
18,891,830 19,646,706 - -
Employees’ share option scheme expenses 1,427,368 2,190,502 1,427,368 2,190,502
Fair value loss on financial assets 477,633 558,812 - -
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and
equipment 1,912,371 (34,496) - -
Loss from disposal of an associate - 544,203 - -
Loss on disposal of investment in quoted shares 385,380 - - -
Impairment loss on investment in subsidiaries - - 1,001,571 -
Impairment loss/(Reversal of impairment loss) on
trade receivables:
- collective impairment loss 396,188 162,239 - -
- individual impairment loss - 105,354 - -
- collective impairment loss (455,313) - - -
- individual impairment loss (147,989) (174,798) - -
(207,114) 92,795 - -
Personnel expenses (including key management
personnel):
- contributions to state plans 3,920,875 3,000,658 - -
- wages, salaries and others 53,167,675 42,512,899 210,500 54,000
Property, plant and equipment written off 1,451,034 905,647 - -
Provision for slow moving inventories 4,603,496 5,073,310 - -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer
required (2,713,547) (2,963,925) - -
Rental expenses (#) in respect of:
- coldroom 637 35,094 - -
- storage 48,245 94,645 - -
- hostel 944,540 892,100 - -
993,422 1,021,839 - -
Rental income from:
- investment properties (1,563,908) (1,739,044) - -
- office and factory (441,972) (441,613) - -
- coldroom (2,699,076) (2,802,953) - -
(4,704,956) (4,983,610) - -
146
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON (CONTINUED)
Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting): (continued)
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Inventories written off 3,052,750 2,404,240 - -
(Gain)/Loss on foreign exchange:
- unrealised (1,199,356) (1,178,362) 728,149 (1,273,656)
- realised 3,220,182 (1,158,397) - -
2,020,826 (2,336,759) 728,149 (1,273,656)
Share of loss of a joint venture 361,326 - - -
Share of loss of associate - 471,711 - -
# For short-term leases with lease term of 12 months or less and for leases of low value assets, the Group has availed the
exemption in MFRS 16 not to recognise the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Instead, payments made for these
leases are recognised as expense when incurred.
27. TAXATION
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Current tax
Malaysia
- current 6,874,225 4,415,410 - -
- (over)/under provision in prior financial years (266,902) - 11,133 -
Overseas
- current 33,653 19,174 - -
- underprovision in prior financial year - 6,066 - -
6,640,976 4,440,650 11,133 -
Deferred tax
- original and reversal of temporary differences 1,738,915 (3,495,704) - -
- underprovision in prior financial years 1,738,282 3,192,743 - -
3,477,197 (302,961) - -
Total tax expense 10,118,173 4,137,689 11,133 -
147
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
27. TAXATION (CONTINUED)
A reconciliation of income tax expenses applicable to profit before taxation within the applicable statutory income tax rate is
as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Profit before taxation 41,536,172 34,266,322 40,885,395 17,180,532
Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of
24% (2023: 24%) 9,968,681 8,223,917 9,812,495 4,123,327
Tax effects in respect of:
Non-deductible expenses 1,527,635 1,322,996 859,084 570,131
Non-taxable income (307) (297,164) (307) (305,677)
Tax exempt income (612,284) (382,510) (10,671,272) (4,387,781)
Recognition of reinvestment allowance incentive
previously not recognised - (897,462) - -
Reinvestment allowance incentive (2,200,395) (5,784,149) - -
Double deduction on qualifying expenditure - (1,084,093) - -
Effect of deferred tax assets not recognised 30,230 6,968 - -
Others (66,767) (169,623) - -
8,646,793 938,880 - -
(Over)/Under provision:
- current tax (266,902) 6,066 11,133 -
- deferred tax 1,738,282 3,192,743 - -
10,118,173 4,137,689 11,133 -
148
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
28. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Foreign currency translation loss for foreign operations during the financial year (474,982) (100,480)
Less: Tax income/(expense) 28 (50)
Net of tax (474,954) (100,530)
29. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 was based on the profit attributable to owners
of the Company of RM31,417,999 (2023: RM30,128,633) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
347,760,049 (2023: 359,813,534).
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 was based on the profit attributable to owners
of the Company of RM31,417,999 (2023: RM30,128,633) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
373,101,211 (2023: 368,315,507) after adjustment for the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to Employees’ Share
Option Scheme (“ESOS”).
30. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Company:
Sen
per share
Total
amount
RM
Date of
payment
2024
Interim 2024 ordinary - single tier 4.2 14,703,023 2 April 2024
Second interim 2024 ordinary - single tier 2.8 9,687,351 20 December 2024
24,390,374
2023
Interim 2022 ordinary - single tier 3.6 13,021,188 31 March 2023
Subsequent to the end of the current financial year, the Board of Directors has approved a final single tier dividend of 2.0
sen per ordinary share totalling RM6,802,080 was declared on 24 February 2025 and paid on 27 March 2025 in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2024.
The final dividend will be accounted for in the shareholders’ equity as appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year
ending 31 December 2025.
.
149
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group’s reportable segments are organised in accordance with the Group entities, which are the Group’s strategic
business units. The strategic business units offer products to different markets and managed separately because they require
different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision
maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a quarterly basis.
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest and depreciation, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Group’s chief operating decision maker.
Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in
evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Segment assets
The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer. Segment total assets are used to measure the return
on assets of each segment.
Segment liabilities
Segment liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provide regularly to the Chief
Executive Officer. Hence no disclosure is made on segment liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and equipment,
investment properties and intangible assets other than goodwill.
Manufacturing and trading
2024
RM
2023
RM
Group
Reporting segment profit 102,482,419 65,151,096
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
- revenue from external customers 317,548,594 287,215,315
- inter-company revenue 206,453,294 148,538,360
Not included in the measure of reporting segment profit but provided to
Chief Executive Officer:
- depreciation (Note 26) (18,891,830) (19,646,706)
- finance costs (311,215) (207,781)
- finance income 1,199,590 1,165,003
- income tax expense (10,118,173) (4,137,689)
Segment assets
Included in the measure of segment assets are:
- additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred
tax assets 25,659,715 5,824,333
150
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and other material items:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Profit or loss
Total profit or loss for reportable segments 102,482,419 65,151,096
Elimination of inter-segment profits (42,942,792) (12,195,290)
Depreciation (Note 26) (18,891,830) (19,646,706)
Finance income 1,199,590 1,165,003
Finance costs (311,215) (207,781)
Consolidated profit before tax 41,536,172 34,266,322
External
revenue
RM
Depreciation
RM
Finance
costs
RM
Finance
income
RM
Segment
assets
RM
2024
Total reportable segments 524,001,888 (18,891,830) (311,215) 1,199,590 879,344,141
Elimination of inter-segment
transactions or balances (206,453,294) - - - (421,856,475)
Consolidated 317,548,594 (18,891,830) (311,215) 1,199,590 457,487,666
2023
Total reportable segments 435,753,675 (19,646,706) (207,781) 1,165,003 802,978,599
Elimination of inter-segment
transactions or balances (148,538,360) - - - (342,221,890)
Consolidated 287,215,315 (19,646,706) (207,781) 1,165,003 460,756,709
Geographical segments
The manufacturing of frozen food products is carried out solely in Malaysia and China.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of
customers.
Geographical information
The geographical information is shown in Note 22.
Major customer
The Group has one (2023: one) major customer contributing approximately 16% (2023: 12%) of the Group’s total revenue.
151
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Categories of financial instruments of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Assets
Financial assets at amortised cost
- Other investments - - 122,000,000 122,000,000
- Trade and other receivables 110,797,926 78,682,061 5,325,532 5,225,465
- Cash and bank balances 55,412,885 63,286,933 7,612,507 10,415,397
166,210,811 141,968,994 134,938,039 137,640,862
Financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss
- Other investments 8,377,211 9,240,224 - -
- Short-term investments 16,107,626 41,014,760 2,284,094 2,077,217
24,484,837 50,254,984 2,284,094 2,077,217
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
- Loans and borrowings 2,766,717 3,560,015 - -
- Trade and other payables 49,050,542 50,833,424 2,307,623 13,857,917
51,817,259 54,393,439 2,307,623 13,857,917
(b) Net (losses)/gains arising from financial instruments
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Net (losses)/ gains on:
Financial instruments at fair value through
profit or loss
Other investments – recognised in profit or loss (477,633) (558,812) - -
Short-term investments – recognised in profit
or loss 1,199,590 1,165,003 98,535 112,935
721,957 606,191 98,535 112,935
152
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
(a) Credit risk
(b) Liquidity risk
(c) Market risk
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its receivables from customers,
cash and cash equivalents and other investments.
(i) Receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Normally financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or directors of the Company are obtained, and credit
evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables is credit impaired.
The gross carrying amount of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or in full) when there
is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not
have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amount subject to write
off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from receivables is represented by
the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
Management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are
stated at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular customers that have been
transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the receivables. Any
receivables having significant balances past due more than 90 days, which are deemed to have higher credit risk,
are monitored individually.
When an account is more than 90 days past due, the credit risk is considered to have increased significantly since
the initial recognition. The Group and the Company identify as a default account if it is more than 90 days past due
and the customer is having significant financial difficulties (analysed by financial measures of reported losses,
negative cash flows, and qualitative evaluation of the customer’s characteristics). The Group and the Company
classify an impaired receivable when a customer is in default, in liquidation or other financial reorganisation.
For each receivable, the lifetime Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) is recognised using the probability of default
technique. The inputs used are: (i) the percent chance of default, and (ii) the expected cash shortfalls. The lifetime
ECL is measured at the probability-weighted expected cash shortfalls by reference to the Group’s past experience,
current conditions and forecast of future economic benefits.
153
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period by geographic region was as
follows:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Malaysia 31,198,501 28,010,543
North America 38,406,451 22,316,090
Europe 18,017,571 10,364,846
Rest of Asia 15,212,234 11,202,829
Oceania 5,416,436 3,347,664
Africa 638,691 465,245
108,889,884 75,707,217
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for the amount
due from one customer (2023: one customer) representing 23% (2023: 19%) of total trade receivables of the Group.
The Group does not anticipate the carrying amount recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly
different from the value that would eventually be received.
154
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses
The ageing analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period was:
Gross
amount
RM
Individual
impairment
RM
Collective
impairment
RM
Effect of
movements in
exchange rates
RM
Net
amount
RM
Group
2024
Not past due 77,618,957 - (569) 22,294 77,640,682
Past due 1-30 days 14,631,501 - (1,469) 4,413 14,634,445
Past due 31-90 days 11,968,737 - (3,592) 4,528 11,969,673
Past due more than
90 days 6,149,493 (887,327) (624,317) 7,235 4,645,084
Total past due 32,749,731 (887,327) (629,378) 16,176 31,249,202
110,368,688 (887,327) (629,947) 38,470 108,889,884
2023
Not past due 47,712,344 - (59,940) (1,813) 47,650,591
Past due 1-30 days 13,670,669 - (123,181) (5,218) 13,542,270
Past due 31-90 days 13,060,423 - (241,469) (10,775) 12,808,179
Past due more than
90 days 2,988,169 (1,122,348) (130,679) (28,965) 1,706,177
Total past due 29,719,261 (1,122,348) (495,329) (44,958) 28,056,626
77,431,605 (1,122,348) (555,269) (46,771) 75,707,217
For balances which are past due but not impaired, management is monitoring individual balances closely and
is confident of repayment based on subsequent collections after year end past repayment trends of these
customers.
155
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses (continued)
The allowance account is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the
amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable directly.
The impairment loss as at end of reporting period was:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
At 1 January 1,724,388 1,584,822
Impairment loss recognised:
- Individual impairment loss - 105,354
- Collective impairment loss 396,188 162,239
Impairment loss no longer required:
- Individual impairment loss (147,989) (174,798)
- Collective impairment loss (455,313) -
Effect of movements in exchange rates (38,470) 46,771
At 31 December 1,478,804 1,724,388
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the reporting period,
the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
position.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risk. Consequently, the Group and the Company are of the
view that the loss allowances are not material and hence, it is not provided for.
156
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(iii) Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company provide unsecured financial guarantees to third parties and banks in respect of
banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The table below summarised the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group and of the Company as at the end
of the reporting period:
Group
2024
RM
2022
RM
Corporate guarantees issued in favour of third parties 2,036,158 1,884,306
Company
2024
RM
2022
RM
Corporate guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities granted
to subsidiaries, representing the outstanding loan amounts of the
subsidiaries (Note 20) 2,766,717 3,560,015
(iv) Inter-company advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the
subsidiaries to repay advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts
in the statements of financial position.
Advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.
Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.
157
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(iv) Inter-company advances (continued)
Recognition and measurement of impairment losses
Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes that
there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly. As the
Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the
Company considers the advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The
Company considers a subsidiary’s advances to be credit impaired when:
• the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• the subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; or
• the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal information
available.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advance to the subsidiaries are not
recoverable.
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as and when
they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables,
corporate guarantees, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by
the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.
158
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(b) Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end
of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
RM
Contractual
interest rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM
Less than
1 year
RM
Group
2024
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings 2,766,717 1.15% - 1.34% 2,803,791 2,803,791
Trade and other payables 49,050,542 - 49,050,542 49,050,542
51,817,259
-
51,854,333 51,854,333
Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii)) - 2,036,158 2,036,158
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and borrowings 3,560,015 1.15% - 1.34% 3,607,719 3,607,719
Trade and other payables 50,833,424 - 50,833,424 50,833,424
54,393,439
-
54,441,143 54,441,143
Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii)) - 1,884,306 1,884,306
159
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(b) Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end
of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments: (continued)
Carrying
amount
RM
Contractual
interest rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM
Less than
1 year
RM
Company
2024
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 2,307,623 - 2,307,623 2,307,623
-
Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii)) - 2,766,717 2,766,717
2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 13,857,917 - 13,857,917 13,857,917
-
Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii)) - 3,560,015 3,560,015
* As at end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment. Hence,
the financial guarantees have not been recognised. The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is
required to be settled in the event of the triggering event.
(c) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other prices will
affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
(i) Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and cash and cash
equivalents that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Australia Dollar (“AUD”), Euro (“EURO”), British Pound Sterling
(“GBP”), Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”), Renminbi (“RMB”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) and United States Dollar (“USD”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company manage its foreign currency exposure by matching as far as possible receipts
and payments in each individual currency. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk is
monitored on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Company enter into forward exchange contracts in the normal
course of business, where appropriate, to manage its exposure against foreign currency fluctuations on sales and
purchase transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
160
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(i) Currency risk (continued)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional
currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:
AUD
RM
EURO
RM
GBP
RM
HKD
RM
RMB
RM
SGD
RM
USD
RM
2024
Group
Trade and other
receivables - - - - 731 1,213,887 3,283,769
Cash and cash
equivalents - 21,120 - 370,201 830,360 1,720,173 7,275,818
Trade and other
payables - (141,780) - - (47,967) (6,623) (1,029,172)
- (120,660) - 370,201 783,124 2,927,437 9,530,415
2023
Trade and other
receivables - - - - (58,102) 1,413,845 2,003,818
Cash and cash
equivalents - 22,842 - 363,415 796,516 402,939 15,971,676
Trade and other
payables (6,123) (1,519) (263) - - (1,605,575) (24,504,957)
(6,123) 21,323 (263) 363,415 738,414 211,209 (6,529,463)
Company
2024
Cash and cash
equivalents - - - - - - 1,423,022
2023
Cash and cash
equivalents - - - - - - 1,459,306
161
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(i) Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2023: 10%) strengthening of the following currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) at the end of the
reporting period would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This
analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant.
Group Company
Profit or loss Profit or loss
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
AUD - (465) - -
EURO (9,170) 1,621 - -
GBP - (20) - -
HKD 28,135 27,620 - -
RMB 59,517 56,119 - -
SGD 222,485 16,052 - -
USD 724,312 (496,239) 108,150 110,907
1,025,279 (395,312) 108,150 110,907
A 10% (2023: 10%) weakening of the above currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia at the end of the reporting
period would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the
basis that all other variables remained constant.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in
interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of changes in cash flows due to changes
in interest rates. Short-term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly arises from its short-term funds, fixed deposits
and borrowings and is managed through effective negotiation with financial institutions for best available rates.
162
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Floating rate instruments
Financial assets 16,107,626 41,014,760 2,284,094 2,077,217
Financial liabilities (2,766,717) (3,560,015) - -
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
Group Company
Profit or loss Profit or loss
100 bp
increase
RM
100 bp
decrease
RM
100 bp
increase
RM
100 bp
decrease
RM
2024
Financial assets 122,418 (121,418) 17,359 (17,359)
Financial liabilities (21,027) 21,027 - -
2023
Financial assets 311,712 (311,712) 15,787 (15,787)
Financial liabilities (27,056) 27,056 - -
163
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments (continued)
A change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown above. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in
particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
(iii) Price risk
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of the financial statements will fluctuate because of
changes in market prices (other than currency or interest rate).
The Group and the Company are exposed to equity securities price risk arising from the investments held by the
Group and the Company which are classified on the statements of financial position as fair value through profit or
loss. These securities are listed in Malaysia. The Group and the Company are not exposed to commodity price risk.
To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity, the Group and the Company diversify their portfolio.
A 5% (2023: 5%) decrease in share price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased profit by RM418,861
(2023: RM462,011) for quoted investments classified as fair value through profit or loss. A 5% (2023: 5%) increased
in share price would have had equal but opposite effect on equity and profit respectively.
(d) Fair value of financial instruments
(i) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amount are
a reasonable approximation of fair value
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade
and other payables, and loans and borrowings.
The carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities are reasonable approximation of fair values, because
these are short-term in nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are repriced to market interest rates
on or near to the end of the reporting period.
164
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
Level 1
RM
Level 2
RM
Level 3
RM
Group
2024
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 8,377,211 - -
Short-term investments 16,107,626 - -
2023
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 9,240,224 - -
Short-term investments 41,014,760 - -
Company
2024
Financial asset
Short-term investments 2,284,094 - -
2023
Financial asset
Short-term investments 2,077,217 - -
The fair values of these financial assets that are quoted in an active market are determined by reference to the
quoted closing bid price at the end of the reporting period.
165
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
(iii) Policy of transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
circumstances that caused the transfer.
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets or
liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for
the financial assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal
and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of the reporting period. In respect
of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar
liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined by
reference to similar borrowing arrangements.
Transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and 2 fair values during the financial year (2023: no transfer in either
direction).
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the financial assets and liabilities.
The following shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as well as the
key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Valuation processes applied by the Group and the Company for Level 3 fair value
The Group and the Company use discounted cash flows in respect of the measurement of fair values of financial
instruments. The management has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements,
including Level 3 fair values.
166
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
34. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a capital base adequate to safeguard the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development
of the business. The directors monitor and are determined to maintain an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
regulatory requirements.
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by
equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other
payables, less cash and cash equivalents.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Loans and borrowings 2,766,717 3,560,015
Trade and other payables 49,050,542 50,833,424
51,817,259 54,393,439
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (71,520,511) (104,301,693)
Net debt (19,703,252) (49,908,254)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company (excluding treasury shares) 428,032,475 417,410,670
Debt-to-equity ratio - -
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note No. 17/2005, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated
shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than 25% of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding treasury shares) and such
shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The Company has complied with this requirement.
The Group and the Company are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement.
167
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
35. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
2024
RM
2023
RM
Capital expenditure commitments
Property, plant and equipment
Authorised but not contracted for - 16,507,000
Contracted but not provided for:
Within one year 3,138,324 3,157,515
36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the directors of the Group and of the Company during
the financial year are as follows:
Note
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Executive directors
Fees 293,750 340,000 293,750 340,000
Salaries and bonuses 3,297,256 3,519,680 - -
Defined contribution benefits 398,254 425,732 - -
Benefits-in-kind 314,273 68,599 4,000 -
Meeting allowances (a) 43,000 81,000 43,000 81,000
4,346,533 4,435,011 340,750 421,000
Non-executive directors
Fees 536,623 415,000 536,623 415,000
Salaries and bonuses 499,554 - - -
Defined contribution benefits 58,347 - - -
Benefits-in-kind 24,642 7,918 23,950 7,918
Meeting allowances (a) 167,500 157,500 167,500 157,500
1,286,666 580,418 728,073 580,418
5,633,199 5,015,429 1,068,823 1,001,418
168
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)
The number of directors of the Company whose income falls within the following bands are:
Executive directors Non-executive directors
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
RM150,000 and below - - 3 2
RM150,001 to RM200,000 - - 4 2
RM200,001 to RM500,000 - - 1 -
RM500,001 to RM1,000,000 2 2 - -
RM1,000,001 and above 2 2 - -
Total 4 4 8 4
(a) Meeting allowances vary from one director to another, depending on the number of committees they sit on and the
number of meetings attended during the financial year.
37. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
A related party is defined as follows:
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and the Company if that person:
(i) has control or joint control over the Company;
(ii) has significant influence over the Company; or
(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the Company or of a parent of the Company.
(b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:
(i) the entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and
fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
(ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a
group of which the other entity is a member).
(iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third party and the other entity is an associate of the third party.
(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or entity related
to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the Company.
(vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management
personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the Company).
(viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services to the
Company or to the parent of the Company.
The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entity, companies which certain directors
have interest and key management personnel.
169
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
37. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under normal trade terms. The significant
related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the transactions below
are shown in Notes 14 and 21.
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Subsidiaries
Dividends income from investment in subsidiaries - - 39,070,299 13,021,188
Dividends income from other investments - - 5,294,800 5,160,600
Other related party transactions
Companies in which directors of the Company have
interest:
Sales of goods 46,939,761 36,468,246 - -
Companies in which persons related to directors of
the Company have interest:
Sales of goods 2,219,253 1,863,551 - -
Purchase of goods 1,629,716 1,757,713 - -
Rental of office 441,973 441,972 - -
Provision of transportation service 75,236 65,789 - -
Group Company
2024
RM
2023
RM
2024
RM
2023
RM
Key management personnel
Executive directors:
- fees 293,750 340,000 293,750 340,000
- remuneration 3,297,256 3,519,680 - -
- defined contribution plans 398,254 425,732 - -
- benefits-in-kind 314,273 68,599 4,000 -
- meeting allowances 43,000 81,000 43,000 81,000
4,346,533 4,435,011 340,750 421,000
Other key management personnel:
- short-term employee benefits 3,788,582 2,995,495 - -
- defined contribution plans 204,970 202,015 - -
3,993,552 3,197,510 - -
Total compensation paid to key management
personnel 8,340,085 7,632,521 340,750 421,000
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.
170
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
38. OTHER INFORMATION
(a) The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on the Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
(b) The registered office of the Company is located at:
12th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
(c) The principal place of business of the Company is located at:
Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
42920 Pulau Indah
Selangor Darul Ehsan
(d) The financial statements are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia, which is also the Group’s and the Company’s functional
currency.
39. APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 14 April 2025.
171
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
We, the undersigned, being two of the directors of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do
hereby state that, in the opinion of the directors, the accompanying financial statements are drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31
December 2024 and of their financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
ended on that date.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI		 GAN KA BIEN
Director		Director
Selangor
14 April 2025
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
I, LEE FUI MENG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration
No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements are to the
best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and
by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
LEE FUI MENG
(MIA no. 31056)
Subscribed and solemnly declared
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur
in the Federal Territory on 14 April 2025
Before me
STATUTORY DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
172
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Kawan Food Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 99 to 170.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of
our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
173
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Key Audit Matters (Continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Significant estimates in revenue recognition arising from rebates
and promotions given to customers
Refer to Note 22 - Revenue
The Group’s revenue is recognised net of rebates and promotions.
Rebates and discounts recognised are based on the expected
entitlement earned up to reporting date under each customer
trading agreement and promotions run.
The Group has two categories of rebates and promotions where
estimates are used:
- Conditional rebates
- Promotions
Conditional rebates and promotions are triggered when certain
conditions are met. The amount committed based on conditions
achieved, multiplied by rates contracted with each customer in
their trading agreements.
During the financial year, the Group incurred conditional rebates
and promotions totalling RM24.2 million. A total of approximately
RM8.1 million of these rebates and discounts were included in
accruals as at 31 December 2024.
We focused on this area because of the high volume of
transactions incurred during the financial year and estimation
involved in determining the appropriate amount of accruals as at
financial year end and especially in relation to those promotions
and campaigns that were still ongoing at the financial year end
and those in which the actual data with regards the conditions
to be met have not been confirmed.
The details of our work performed are as follows:
• We have assessed and evaluated the
appropriateness of the design and implementation
of the controls in rebates and promotions given to
customers cycle;
• We have assessed and evaluated the operating
effectiveness on the relevant controls identified
within the rebates and promotions given to
customers cycle;
• We have reviewed the rebates and promotions
arrangements entered into with customers, on a
sampling basis, to obtain an understanding of the
specific terms and conditions;
• We have tested that the rebates and promotions
committed were appropriately accrued for in the
current year by checking to the credit notes issued
to customers subsequent to reporting date; and
• We have performed re-computation of rebates
and promotions, on a sampling basis, based on the
entitlement criteria.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of the Company to be
communicated in our auditors report.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad
174
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that
give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s
internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of
our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities
or business units within the Group as a basis for forming an opinion on the Group financial statements. We are responsible for
the direction, supervision and review of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
for our audit opinion.
175
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
RSM Malaysia PLT		 Har Hou Wei
202306000002 (LLP0030276-LCA) & AF 0768		 03665/05/2026 J
Chartered Accountants		 Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
14 April 2025
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad
176
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
LIST OF PROPERTIES
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-up
Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Held under H.S. (D)
No. 135852, PT129351,
Mukim dan Daerah Klang,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 96,
Section 4, Phase 2C,
Selangor Halal-Hub, Pulau Indah,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
99 years
expiring on 24
February 2097
6 years 12 October
2011
63,079.9 sq.
metres/
49,404.82 sq.
metres
18 May 2018 93,946,209
* Held under H.S. (D)
No. 98527, Bandar Shah Alam,
Daerah Petaling, Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 20,
Jalan Pengapit 15/19,
40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 6 August
2074
44 year 28 May
2004
7,337.24 sq.
metres/
6,417.91 sq.
metres
23 May 2007 4,301,945
* Held under H.S. (D) 98490,
P.T. No. 617, Seksyen 16,
Bandar Shah Alam,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 4,
Jalan Lada Hitam 16/12A,
40000 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 20 July
2094
34 years 28 June
1999
4,484 sq.
metres/
3,149.43 sq.
metres
24 September
1990
1,462,162
* Held under H.S. (D) 98500
for P.T. No. 714, Seksyen 16,
Bandar Shah Alam,
Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 2A,
Persiaran Kemajuan,
Seksyen 16, 40000 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 20 July
2094
34 years 25 May
2005
21,796 sq.
metres/
3,584.91 sq.
metres
7 May 1990 6,094,090
* Parcel No. 2F-41C
with address at 41C-2F,
Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 24 years 16 May
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
36,935
* Parcel No. 2B-41D with
address at 41D-2B,
Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 24 years 29 July
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
34,363
177
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
LIST OF PROPERTIES
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-up
Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Parcel No. 2F-31C with address
at 31C-2F, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D)
56062 PT 59169 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 24 years 16 May
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
36,935
* Parcel No. 2B-21D with address
at 21D-2B, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56057 PT
59164 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 24 years 29 July
2003
67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
34,363
* Shop Apartment Parcel No.
B3/3F with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
32,595
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. B4/3F
with address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67207 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
32,595
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D4/3F
with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
32,595
178
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
LIST OF PROPERTIES
Location/
Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx. Land
Area/Built-up
Area
Issuance
of Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D3/3F
with address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strara Title H.S. (D) 67207
Lot No. P.T. No. 65652 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
32,595
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D2/3F
with address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 23 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
32,595
** Industrial Land at 13,
Kexing Road North,
Nantong Economic & Technology
Development Area (“NETDA”), China
Held under Lot No. 03-10-(001)-338,
Land Registry No. 35.45-92.10
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
50 years
expiring on
25 December
2056
14 years 26
December
2006
40,773.90 sq.
metres/
16,000 sq.
metres
N/A 18,132,691
* Held under Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
** Held under Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.
179
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Issued Share Capital : 364,036,612 Ordinary Shares (including 24,015,000 Treasury Shares)
Class of Shares		 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights		 : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Less than 100 406 9.39 6,375 0.00
100 - 1,000 1,470 33.98 707,562 0.21
1,001 - 10,000 1,744 40.31 7,370,168 2.17
10,001 - 100,000 571 13.20 17,587,138 5.17
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 132 3.05 104,058,167 30.60
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.07 210,292,202 61.85
Total 4,326 100.00 340,021,612 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
as per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 28 March 2025
Name of Substantial Shareholders
Direct Indirect
No. of
Shares %(1)
No. of
Shares %(1)
1. Gan Thiam Chai 1,021,000 0.30 126,257,402(2) 37.13
2. Kwan Sok Kay - - 126,257,402(2) 37.13
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 6.61 3,028,666(3) 0.89
4. GFG (L) Foundation 126,257,402 37.13 - -
5. Narvee F’dation 62,001,200 18.23 - -
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) by virtue of his/her substantial shareholdings in GFG
(L) Foundation.
(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,
Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 462,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam
Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.89% in the shareholdings of the Company.
ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS
as per record of depositors as at 28 March 2025
180
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Register of Directors’ shareholdings as at 28 March 2025
Name of Directors
Direct Indirect
No. of
Shares %(1)
No. of
Shares %(1)
1. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 10,137,028 2.98 - -
2. Gan Ka Bien 242,440 0.07 - -
3. Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud - - - -
4. Eugene Hon Kah Weng - - - -
5. Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz - - - -
6. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor - - - -
7. Gan Ka Ooi - - - -
8. Gan Meng Hoi 462,000 0.14 - -
9. Gan Ka Hui - - - -
10. Neel Naresh Nagrecha - - - -
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
as at 28 March 2025
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %(1)
1. GFG (L) FOUNDATION 126,257,402 37.13
2. CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR STANDARD CHARTERED BANK SINGAPORE BRANCH (SG PVB CL AC)
62,001,200 18.23
3. GAN THIAM HOCK 22,033,600 6.48
4. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
6,500,000 1.91
5. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND
6,434,100 1.89
6. KONG POH YIN 5,834,100 1.72
7. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC SMALLCAP FUND
4,865,900 1.43
8. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHUNG-CHEN (CCTS)
4,810,000 1.42
9. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR UOB KAY HIAN PTE LTD (A/C CLIENTS)
3,330,000 0.98
10. LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM 3,317,028 0.98
11. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN, TSAI-TIEN (CCTS)
2,970,466 0.87
12. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC ISLAMIC OPPORTUNITIES FUND
2,639,900 0.78
ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Record of Depositors as at 28 March 2025
181
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Record of Depositors as at 28 March 2025
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %(1)
13. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC STRATEGIC SMALLCAP FUND
2,618,000 0.77
14. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOONG KAH YIN
2,616,000 0.77
15. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR UBS AG SINGAPORE (FOREIGN)
2,370,500 0.70
16. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHIA-LUNG (CCTS)
2,191,182 0.64
17. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR SHAH KAMAL KANT ZAVERCHAND
2,168,382 0.64
18. KONG POH YIN 2,000,000 0.59
19. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC SELECT TREASURES EQUITY FUND
1,930,000 0.57
20. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
PUBLIC ISLAMIC GROWTH BALANCED FUND
1,472,333 0.43
21. LAM SAW KUAN 1,464,366 0.43
22. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD
1,418,500 0.42
23. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ISLAMIC)
1,418,500 0.42
24. AMANAH RAYA BERHAD
KUMPULAN WANG BERSAMA
1,369,800 0.40
25. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
MAYBANK TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR DANA MAKMUR PHEIM (211901)
1,293,100 0.38
26. KOON POH TAT 1,200,000 0.35
27. GAN THIAM CHUAN 1,149,300 0.34
28. HLIB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
HONG LEONG BANK BHD FOR GAN THIAM CHAI
1,021,000 0.30
29. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KOON POH TAT (8062495)
1,019,600 0.30
30. HLB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEW KUAN FAH
1,000,000 0.29
Total 280,714,259 82.56
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).
182
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting ("21st AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad ("Kawan" or "the
Company") will be held at Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa
2C, 42920 Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Monday, 23 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m. for the following purposes:
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2024 together with the Reports of the Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.
2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of
up to RM1,625,000 for the period from 24 June 2025 until the conclusion of the Twenty-
Second AGM.
3. To re-elect Eugene Hon Kah Weng who is retiring under Clause 115(1) of the Constitution
of the Company.
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring under Clause 122 of the Constitution
of the Company:
(i) Gan Thiam Chai
(ii) Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
(iii) Gan Meng Hoi
(iv) Gan Ka Hui
(v) Gan Ka Ooi
(vi) Neel Naresh Nagrecha
*	
En. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor has expressed his intention not to seek re-election as
a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director and shall accordingly retire after the
conclusion of the forthcoming 21st AGM.
		
5. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:
6. Continuation in office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin
Nik Daud
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud, who will serve as
an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1
January 2026, to continue to act as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company.”
Please Refer To
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
Ordinary Resolution 9
Ordinary Resolution 10
183
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions
of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the following related parties (“Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate”):
(i) Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited
(ii) MH Delight Sdn Bhd
(iii) Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd
(Collectively referred to as “Related Parties”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company, to enter and give effect to
the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (hereinafter to
be referred to as “Recurrent Transactions”) with the above Related Parties as stated in
Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025 which are necessary for
the Company’s day-to-day operations subject further to the following:
(i) the Recurrent Transactions contemplated are in the ordinary course of business
and on terms which are not more favourable to Related Parties than those generally
available to the public, and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders;
(ii) the approval is subject to annual renewal and shall only continue to be in force
until:
(a)	
the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the forthcoming
AGM of the Company at which the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate is approved, at which time it will lapse unless by a resolution
passed at the AGM the mandate is again renewed;
(b)	
the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after
the date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies
Act 2016 (“Act”) (but shall not extend to such extensions as may be allowed
pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c)	
revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general
meeting,
whichever is the earlier; and
(iii) the disclosure of the breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent
Transactions conducted pursuant to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate in the Annual Report of the Company based on the following information:
(a) the type of Recurrent Transactions entered into; and
(b)	
the names of the Related Parties involved in each type of the Recurrent
Transactions entered into and their relationship with the Company.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and
things to give full effect to the Recurrent Transactions contemplated and/or authorised
by this resolution, as the Directors of the Company, in their absolute discretion, deem fit.”
Ordinary Resolution 11
Ordinary Resolution 12
Ordinary Resolution 13
184
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
8. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares.
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby
authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of
the next AGM of the Company upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes
as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit provided that the aggregate
number of shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number
of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at the time of issue,
subject to the Constitution of the Company and approval of all the relevant regulatory
bodies being obtained for such allotment and issue.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to
the existing issued Kawan shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this
Mandate.
AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally
in all respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution
that which may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new
shares.”
9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.
“THAT subject to the Act, the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals
of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any), the Company be
and is hereby authorised to utilise an amount not exceeding the audited retained
profits as at 31 December 2024 to purchase such amount of ordinary shares in the
Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority”) as may be determined
by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such
terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of
the Company provided that the aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares of the Company.
THAT an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained profits be allocated by the
Company for the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority.
THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company to decide at
their absolute discretion to either retain the shares so purchased as treasury shares
(as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to cancel the shares so purchased and if
retained as treasury shares, may resell the treasury shares and/or to distribute them as
share dividend and/or subsequently cancel them.
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately upon the
passing of this resolution and will expire at:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, at which time the said authority
will lapse unless by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting of the
Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
Ordinary Resolution 14
185
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in a
general meeting;
whichever occurs first, but not so as to prejudice the completion of the purchase(s) by
the Company before the aforesaid expiry date and in any event, in accordance with
the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa Securities and/or any other relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any).
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to take all steps necessary to
implement, complete and do all such acts and things (including executing all such
documents as may be required) as they may consider expedient or necessary to give
effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority as may be agreed or
allowed by any relevant governmental and/or regulatory authority.”
10. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.
Ordinary Resolution 15
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAI YIT CHAN (MAICSA 7009143)
SSM PC No.: 202008001023
TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513)
SSM PC No.: 202008001075
Company Secretaries
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Date: 30 April 2025
EXPLANATORY NOTES:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements
Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for
voting.
2. Ordinary Resolutions 2 – 8 - Re-election of Directors
The retiring Directors under Ordinary Resolution 2 pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s Constitution and Ordinary
Resolutions 3 – 8 pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution (“Retiring Directors”), being eligible, have
offered themselves for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Retiring Directors to stand for re-election at this 21st AGM and in line
with Practice 5.1 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021, the Nominating Committee (“NC”) has reviewed
and assessed the Retiring Directors from the annual assessment and evaluation of the Board, Board Committees,
Independent Directors and individual Directors’ fitness and propriety with reference to the Directors’ Fit and Proper
Policy for the financial year under review.
186
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The NC had recommended that, the re-election of the Retiring Directors to be based on the following:
(i) satisfactory performance and have met Board’s expectation in discharging his/her duties and responsibilities
with due care and in a commendable manner;
(ii) met the fit and proper criteria in discharging his/her roles as director of the Company;
(iii) level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Director; and
(iv) his/her ability to act in the best interest of the Company in decision-making and developing the Group’s business
strategies.
The Board had endorsed the recommendation of the NC on the re-election of the Retiring Directors.
The profiles of the Retiring Directors are set out in the Board of Directors’ Profiles of the Annual Report 2024 of the
Company.
3. Ordinary Resolution 10 - Continuing in Office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 10 is to seek shareholders’ approval on the retention of Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
who will serve as Independent Director in the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1 January 2026.
The NC has assessed the independence of Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud and recommended him to continue to act as
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company based on the following justifications:-
(i) He fulfilled the criteria under the definition of Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Securities, and thus, he would be able to provide check and balance and bring an element of objectivity
to the Board;
(ii) He is familiar with the Company’s business operations and is able to advise the Board diligently on business
matters;
(iii) He provides a check and balance and brings an element of objectivity to the Board;
(iv) He has devoted sufficient time and attention to their professional obligations for informed and balanced decision
making by actively participating in board discussion and providing an independent voice to the Board; and
(v) He has exercised his due care during his tenure as a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
and carried out his professional duties in the best interest of the Company and shareholders.
4. Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13 - Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of
a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13 proposed, if passed, will empower the Directors from the date of the 21st AGM, to deal
with the related party transactions involving recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are necessary
for the Company’s day-to-day operations. These recurrent related party transactions are in the ordinary course of
business and are on terms not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and
not to the detriment of the minority shareholders.
This authority unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company and subject
always to provision (ii) of the resolution.
For further information on Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April
2025 accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
5. Ordinary Resolution 14 - Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares
The Ordinary Resolution 14 proposed under item 8 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general
mandate for issuance of shares by the Company under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will
provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company
up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the
working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved
187
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority,
unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM.
At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility
permitted to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities
without making a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the
general mandate is sought, the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.
The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the
previous AGM.
6. Ordinary Resolution 15 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 15, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to take all such steps
as are necessary or expedient to implement, finalise, complete and/or to effect the purchase(s) of shares by the
Company as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company. The authority will, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next AGM of
the Company or the expiry of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required by law to be held.
For further information on Ordinary Resolution 15, please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025
accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 June 2025. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s
office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement. Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom
at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.
6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Saturday, 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
188
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
incorporated.
10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out in the notice of
any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any adjournment
thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its
agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the
AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating
to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules,
regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or rep-
resentative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representa-
tive(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands,
losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
189
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
Day and Date : Monday, 23 June 2025
Time : 10.30 a.m.
Meeting Venue : Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
		 Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
		 Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
		 42920 Pulau Indah
		 Selangor Darul Ehsan
		Malaysia
Dear Valued Shareholders,
1. REGISTRATION
• Registration will start at 9.30 a.m. at the Meeting Venue and will end at a time directed by the Chairman of the AGM.
•	
Please produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) at the registration counter for verification and registration.
Only original MyKad/Passport will be accepted for the purpose of identity verification.
• Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
•	
Please note that no person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person even with the original MyKad/
Passport of that person.
•	
Upon completion of the registration process, you will be given an identification barcode wristband to enter the
meeting hall. Please be reminded that there will be no replacement in the event that you lose or misplace the
barcode wristband.
• Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
• Please note that you will not be allowed to enter the meeting hall without wearing the barcode wristband.
•	
The registration counter will handle only verification of identity and registration. If you have any enquiries, please
proceed to the Help Desk.
2. HELP DESK
• Please proceed to the Help Desk for any clarification or enquiries.
• The Help Desk will also handle the revocation of proxy appointments.
3. ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AGM
•	
Only members whose names appear on the General Meeting Record of Depositors as at
17 June 2025 will be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on
his/her behalf.
4. ANNUAL REPORT 2024
•	
The Company’s Annual Report 2024 is available at the website of the Company,
http://kawanfood.com/index.php/our-company/investor-relations/ and Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
www.bursamalaysia.com.
•	
If you wish to request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2024 prior to the AGM, please forward your request
by completing the Request Form provided. However, we hope you would consider the environmental and
sustainability concerns, and refrain from requesting a printed copy of the Annual Report 2024.
5. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY, CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
•	
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the
case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but
need not be a member of the Company.
•	
A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend,
speak and vote at the same AGM on his/her behalf. If you are unable to attend the AGM and wish to appoint a proxy/
attorney/ authorized representative to vote on your behalf, please submit your proxy form in accordance with the
notes and instructions stated in the notice of AGM.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
•	
You may submit your original proxy form to the office of the Share Registrar of our Company, Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com, not less than forty-
eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding of meeting or adjourned meeting and in default the
instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
•	
The proxy form may also be lodged electronically via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment via BSIP.
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS
For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
190
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
APPOINTMENT OF CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
•	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of
appointment of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate
of appointment of authorised representative should be executed in the following manner:
(a)	
If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
		 (b)	
If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii)	
any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the
corporate member is incorporated.
•	
You may write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of member, CDS account number
accompanied with the certificate of appointment of corporate representative or proxy form (as the case may be)
to submit the request latest by 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.
•	
Please provide a copy of the corporate representative’s or proxy’s MyKad (front and back) or passport, as well as
his/her email address.
•	
The appointment of authorized representative may also be lodged electronically via BSIP at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment
via BSIP.
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS
For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
Step 1 -
Register
Online with
BSIP (for
first-time
registration
only)
Note: If you have already signed up with BSIP, you are not required to register again. You may proceed to
Step 2.
• Access the website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
• Click “Register” to sign up as a user.
• Complete registration with all the required information. Upload and attach a softcopy of your MyKad (front
and back) or Passport. Click “Register”.
• You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on “Verify Email Address” from
the email received to continue with the registration.
• Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP Online for verification of your mobile number.
• Click on “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to
enter the OTP code and click “Enter” to complete the process.
• Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be pending for final
verification.
• An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one (1) business day.
Subsequently, you can log in at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com with the email address and
password filled up by you during the registration to proceed.
Step 2 -
Appointment
of Proxy
For Individual and Corporate holders.
• Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
• Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
• Click “Submit eProxy form”.
• For Corporate holders, please select the companies (if you are representing more than 1 company).
• Enter your CDS account number and the number of shares held.
• Select your proxy — either the Chairman of the meeting or an individual named proxy(ies).
• Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions and click “Next”.
• Enter the particulars of your proxy(ies) and click “Next”.
• Indicate your voting instructions — FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN. If you wish to have your proxy(ies) to act
upon his/her discretion, please indicate DISCRETIONARY.
• Review and confirm your proxy appointment. Click “Apply”. Download or print the eProxy form as an
acknowledgement.
191
Kawan At
A Glance
This is Kawan
Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
- If you wish to attend the AGM yourself, please do not submit any proxy form. You will not be allowed to attend the AGM
together with a proxy appointed by you.
- If you have submitted your proxy form prior to the AGM and subsequently decided to attend the AGM yourself, please
proceed to the Help Desk to revoke the appointment of your proxy.
6. REVOCATION OF PROXY
If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish
to participate in the AGM yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or via electronic means (as
the case may be) to revoke the earlier appointed proxy(ies) at least forty-eight (48) hours before the AGM or proceed
to the Help desk counter on the AGM day to do proxy revocation. On revocation, your proxy(ies) will not be allowed to
participate in the AGM. In such event, you should advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.
7. POLL VOTING
The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. All resolutions set out in the Notice of the 21st AGM will be put to a vote by way of poll.
A Poll Administrator will be appointed to conduct the polling process and Independent Scrutineers will be appointed to
verify the results of the poll.
8. DOOR GIFT
Door gift will be provided to shareholders/proxies in the following manner:
(a) One (1) door gift for one (1) shareholder.
(b) For a shareholder who has been appointed as a proxy by another shareholder, he/she is only entitled to one (1)
door gift.
(c) For a shareholder who appoints more than one (1) proxy, door gift will be provided to both two (2) proxies, unless
they have not been entitled.
(d) If a proxy represents more than one (1) shareholder, he/she is entitled to one (1) door gift only.
(e) If the proxy/proxies has/have collected the door gift earlier, shareholders who decided to attend and request to
revoke the proxy appointment will not be given any door gift.
9. ENQUIRIES
	
If you have any queries prior to the AGM, please contact Boardroom during office hours on Mondays to Fridays from
9.00 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. (except on public holidays):
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Tel : +603-7890 4700
Fax : +603-7890 4670
Email : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS
For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad
For Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
• Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
• Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
• Click “Submit eProxy form”.
• Select the nominee(s)/company(ies) that you represent.
• Download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Prepare the file for appointment of proxy(ies) by inserting the required data.
• Upload the duly completed proxy appointment file
• Review and confirm your proxy appointment.
• Download or print the eProxy form as an acknowledgement.
This page has been intentionally left blank.
Proxy Form
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
http://www.kawanfood.com
Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of ordinary shares held CDS account no. of holder
I/We, (name of shareholder as per NRIC/Passport, in capital letters)
NRIC No./ Passport No./Registration No. Tel: of
(full address)
being a *member/members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD hereby appoint(s):-
Full Name NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address Contact No.
* and/ or (delete as appropriate)
Full Name NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address Contact No.
or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to attend and vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twen-
ty-First Annual General Meeting ("21st AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad ("Kawan" or "the Company") to be held at Lot 129351, Jalan
Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C, 42920, Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia on Monday, 23 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy/proxies is/are to vote as indicated below.
Item
No.
Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 together with the Reports of the
Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.
Resolutions For Against
2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of up to
RM1,625,000 for the period from 24 June 2025 until the conclusion of the Twenty-Second AGM.
Ordinary
Resolution 1
3. To re-elect Eugene Hon Kah Weng who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 2
4. To re-elect Gan Thiam Chai who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 3
5. To re-elect Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the
Company’s Constitution and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 4
6. To re-elect Gan Meng Hoi who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution
and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 5
7. To re-elect Gan Ka Hui who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution
and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 6
8. To re-elect Gan Ka Ooi who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution
and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 7
9. To re-elect Neel Naresh Nagrecha who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary
Resolution 8
10. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration.
Ordinary
Resolution 9
Special Business
11. Continuation in office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik
Daud.
Ordinary
Resolution 10
12. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited.
Ordinary
Resolution 11
13. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with MH Delight Sdn Bhd.
Ordinary
Resolution 12
14. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature with Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd.
Ordinary
Resolution 13
15. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to allot and
issue shares.
Ordinary
Resolution 14
16. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares. Ordinary
Resolution 15
(Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate box against the resolutions on how you wish your proxy to vote. The proxy is to vote on the
resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting as you have indicated. If no specific instruction as to voting is given, this form will be taken to
authorise the proxy to vote at his/her discretion.)
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
* if you wish to appoint other person(s) to be your proxy/proxies, kindly delete the words “the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him/her”
and insert the name(s) of the person(s) desired.
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Date:
Notes:
1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 June 2025. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s office,
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement.
Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.
6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Saturday, 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.
8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
incorporated.
10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal Data Privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data
privacy terms set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 30 April 2025.
Fold This Flap For Sealing
2nd Fold Here
1st Fold Here
AFFIX
STAMP
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
This page has been intentionally left blank.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
200401001942 (640445-V)
Tel : +603 3099 1188 Fax : +603 3099 1028
Sales & Marketing : +603 5511 8388
Email : info@kawanfood.com
Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19,
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C, 42920 Pulau Indah,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
W W W . K A W A N F O O D . C O M
