KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Management Discussion and Analysis
(cont’d)
22
23
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
About this Sustainability Report
This Sustainability Report (“Report”) provides a review of Kawan Food Berhad’s (“Kawan” or “the Company”)
sustainability performance, as well as how it drove the practice of sustainability in its day-to-day operations for the
financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”).
Kawan’s approach to sustainability is based upon the Economic, Environmental and Social (“EES”) risks and
opportunities coexisting with the Company’s corporate governance framework, its organisational culture, value chain
to relevant stakeholders and corporate social responsibility (“CSR”).
Sustainability is a critical factor in enabling Kawan’s continued value creation, particularly in the realisation of non-
financial values pertaining to its organisational and brand reputation, stakeholder relationships, social and environmental
impacts as well as ensuring a meaningful contribution to Kawan’s adopted United Nations Sustainability Development
Goals (“UNSDGs”).
Kawan’s key focus areas in FY2020 included food safety, digitalisation, driving anti-corruption awareness, health and
safety for employees and community, particularly with the ongoing pandemic as well as CSR initiatives for the community.
Scope of the Statement
This Sustainability Statement for FY2020 is prepared in accordance with the Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting
Guide (Second Edition). Unless otherwise stated, this Sustainability Statement covers Kawan’s sustainability
performance of its operations in Malaysia for FY2020. The Company will continue to monitor, assess and further
improve its approach to sustainability.
Data Validation
For certain disclosures, Kawan has sought to provide a comprehensive and transparent perspective of its sustainability
performance. Details presented in this statement has been sourced internally and validated by the respective business
entities or information owners. Kawan continually explores avenues to improve data collection and analysis to heighten
accuracy and strengthen disclosures.
EES Pillars and Metrics
Economic Environment Social
• Business Performance
• Responsible Sourcing
• Product Safety and Quality
• Product Innovation
• Customer Relationship
• Climate Management
• Pollution Control
• Energy Efficiency
• Water Consumption
• Waste Management
• Workforce Engagement
• Diversity and Inclusion
• Training and Development
• Community Engagement
Pillars Description Metrics
Environmental Kawan’s legacy of ensuring a positive impact on the
environment and natural resources
Climate Management
Natural Resources Preservation
Pollution Control
Waste Management
Economic Kawan’s business objectives to achieve long-term
shareholder value
Business Performance
Product Innovation
Customer Expectations
Social Kawan’s good corporate citizenship obligation to the
community it operates in
Workforce Relations
Community Engagement
Health and Safety
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
24
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
1. GOVERNANCE: THE CORNERSTONE OF TRUST AND SUSTAINABILITY
1.1. Sustainability Governance
At Kawan, sustainability is driven by a robust, well-defined governance structure. The tone of this governance is set at
the top with the involvement of the Board of Directors (“the Board”) and Senior Management. This structure enables
the cascade of this sustainability agenda across the organisation.
Governance is overseen by the Board. The Board is in turn supported by the Sustainability Committee (“SC”),
comprising of Heads of Departments (“HODs”) and chaired by the Group Managing Director (“GMD”), whose role is
to update the Board on sustainability matters.
The SC works to review, deliberate and implement strategies to drive sustainability throughout the Company as well
as monitor its progress. Focusing primarily on stakeholder engagement, material matters and the UNSDGs, the SC
also has oversight on anti-corruption, anti-bribery, whistleblowing, code of conduct, health and safety and business
continuity management. This oversight is timely in response to the ongoing impact of the pandemic.
The Sustainability Governance structure is as follows:
Board of Directors
Group Managing Director
Sustainability Committee
Chairman : Group Managing Director
Secretary : Corporate/Admin
representative
Members : Head of departments
• Marketing
• Human Resources
• Safety & Health
• Finance
• Production
• Quality Assurance & Control
• Research & Development
• Sales
• Warehousing/Logistics
• Engineering/Maintenance
• Purchasing
• IT
25
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
1.2. Sustainability Policy
Kawan’s Sustainability Policy takes into account the expectations of its stakeholders and outlines a three-fold
commitment of its impact to EES, aiming to:
i. Identify activities, products and services with the potential to create impacts
ii. Eliminate or reduce adverse impacts through best practices, processes and controls
iii. Work towards enhancing its beneficial impacts
Kawan’s progress is benchmarked against internationally recognised standards and principles such as those related
to fair trade, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as well the UNSGDs.
This policy is reviewed and updated periodically, and shared throughout the organisation and stakeholders for
transparency and governance.
1.3. Regulatory Compliance
Beyond the governance structure, sustainability is also driven by compliance with regulatory and industry requirements.
Kawan complies with the following local and international food and safety regulations, as below:
Area Regulations and Standards
Product Quality and Safety • Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 8
• HACCP Certification (MS1480:2019)
• Good Manufacturing Practice Certification
• Halal Food General requirements (3rd revision) (MS1500:2019) from the
Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (Jakim)
• Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (MeSTI)
Labour • Employment Act 1955
Safety, Health and
Environment
• Occupational Safety and Health Act, 1994
• Fire Services Act, 1988
• Environmental Quality Act, 1974
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
26
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
1.4. Corporate Governance and Ethics
At Kawan, good corporate governance is more than just complying with existing standards and regulations. It is also
about ethics, trust and the values which shape Kawan’s business conduct. This strengthens stakeholders’ confidence
and sets the benchmark of conduct for the organisation.
1.4.1. Code of Conduct and Ethics (“COCE”)
Kawan’s COCE stipulates the expected standards for corporate behaviour, applicable to the Board, Management,
employees and related stakeholders. All incoming Board members as well as staff are briefed on the COCE during
their induction programme, with periodic refreshers provided.
1.4.2. Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy (“ABC Policy”)
Kawan’s new ABC Policy, developed in FY2020, clearly reinforces its zero tolerance for acts of bribery and corruption
and this applies to all of Kawan’s employees, its subsidiaries and stakeholders, including suppliers.
This policy has been updated to include a commercial organisation’s criminal liability (corporate liability) introduced in
Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (“MACC”) (Amendment) Act 2018. As part of Kawan’s risk-
assessment exercise, the Company has also incorporated a non-compliance risk for the MACC Act. Training sessions
were conducted for Directors and HODs. HODs in turn have communicated this to their respective subordinates to
create awareness within the scope of their day-to-day operations. HR also conducted briefings for employees.
There were no reports of any bribery or corruption in FY2020.
1.4.3. Whistleblowing
Kawan’s Whistleblowing Policy outlines a formal mechanism in which any employee or members of the public may
report actual or suspected bribery, corruption and other wrongdoings. This Policy protects the identity and information
pertaining to the reporting individual as well as against any form of retaliation. The Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director would appoint an Investigation Team and their report would be presented to the Board for appropriate action.
In FY2020, no whistleblowing reports were received.
27
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
2. Stakeholder Engagement
At Kawan, stakeholder engagement is a key ingredient to strengthen relationships with relevant stakeholders,
understand the needs of the customer and enable key insights to further improve processes, products and service
levels for current and future growth.
To ensure its continued strong business performance, Kawan has adopted a multi-channel, multi-level approach in
engaging its stakeholders, building a comprehensive stakeholder mapping of its stakeholder universe and formulating
a robust comprehensive engagement plan.
The table below outlines Kawan’s stakeholder engagement approach for FY2020:
Stakeholders Mode of
Engagement
Frequency Focus Areas Material Matters
Shareholders/
Investors
• Annual General
Meeting/Extra-
ordinary General
Meeting
• Quarterly and
Annual Reports,
Announcements
• Corporate
Website
• Analyst Briefings/
Meetings
• Annually
• Quarterly/
Annually
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Company Performance
• Profitability/Growth
• Company Direction and
Strategy
• Dividend
• Corporate Governance
• Sustainability
• Corporate
Governance and
Ethics
• Economic
Sustainability
Employees • Sports & Social
Club
• Events – Annual
Dinner, Festive
celebrations, etc.
• Departmental
Meetings
• Teambuilding
• Townhall
• Kawan Connect
(e-Newsletter)
• Policies and
Procedures
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Ongoing
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Quarterly
• Yearly
• Employee
Remuneration and
Benefits
• Occupational Health &
Safety
• Career Development
and Training
• Corporate Strategy
• Occupational
Health and Safety
• Diversity and
Inclusion
• Training and
Development
• Economic
Sustainability
Distributors/
Key accounts/
Consumers
• Customer
Feedback Survey
• Customer Visits/
Meetings
• Exhibitions/Road
shows
• End-user
Feedback via
Email and Social
Media
• Quarterly
• Ongoing
• Ongoing
• Ongoing
• Product Quality
• On Time Delivery
• Stock Availability
• Product Innovation
• Marketing and
Branding
• Product Knowledge
• Affordability
• Customer Relations
Management
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Product
Innovation
Food
Standards
Auditors
• Compliance
Audits
• Yearly
• Ad-hoc
check and
planned
audit
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Occupational
Health and Safety
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
28
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Stakeholders Mode of
Engagement
Frequency Focus Areas Material Matters
Government/
Regulatory
Authorities
• Statutory
Submissions
• Meetings/Work-
shops
• Site visits/
Conferences
• Monthly/
Yearly/
Quarterly
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Socioeconomic/
Legal Compliance
• Food Safety and
Product Quality
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Corporate
Governance and
Ethics
• Environmental
Management
• Economic
Sustainability
Suppliers/
Business
Partners
• Contractual/
Annual Review
• Regular Meetings
• Supplier
Evaluation Audits
• Quarterly
• Yearly
• Ad-hoc
• Payment
• Procurement Practices
• Compliance with Rules
and Regulations
• Business Ethics
Practices
• Corporate
Governance and
Ethics
• Responsible
Sourcing
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Economic
Sustainability
Media • Interviews/Press
Release
• Advertisements
• New Product
Launches
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Product Awareness/
New Product Launch
• Product Information
• Branding
• Financial Performance
• Food Safety and
Quality
• Corporate
Governance and
Ethics
• Economic
Sustainability
Communities/
NGOs
• Corporate Social
Responsibility
Activities
• Ad-hoc • Community
Engagement
• Social and
Environmental
Concerns
• Community
Engagement
• Environmental
management
Industry
and Trade
Associations
• Association
meetings
• Trainings
• Exhibitions
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Current and Future
Industry Outlook and
Challenges
• Market Trend
• Corporate
Governance
and Ethics
• Economic
Sustainability
Financiers • Meetings • Ad-hoc • Financial Performance • Economic
Sustainability
Universities • Training
• Internships
• Ad-hoc
• Ad-hoc
• Training • Training and
Development
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
FY2020 Stakeholder Prioritisation Matrix
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5		 4
Shareholders/Investors
Employees
Media
Stakeholder dependence on Kawan
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
Universities
Government/Regulatory
Authorities
Financiers
Food Standard Auditors
Industry /Trade Associations
Communities/NGOs
Distributors /Key accounts/Consumers
Suppliers/Business Partners
29
Stakeholder Prioritisation for Kawan
Stakeholder Influence on Kawan
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
30
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Influence
• Training and Development
• Economic Sustainability
• Occupational Health and
Safety
• Product Safety and Quality
• Environmental Management
• Climate Management
• Product Innovation     
• Responsible Sourcing
• Corporate Governance and
Ethics
• Diversity and Inclusion                                    
Importance
• Community Investment
3.1.1 FY2020 Materiality Matters
3. MATERIAL MATTERS
3.1. Kawan’s Approach to Materiality
Each year, the Company will review its materiality assessment exercise to identify, assess and prioritise material issues
that are relevant to Kawan and its related stakeholders. This is put through a rigorous internal process, being vetted
with current priorities, taking into consideration concerns from stakeholders and industry peers. This process will be
cross referenced with the global sustainability initiatives such as the UNSDGs.
In FY2020, the Company had identified 11 key material issues, 8 of which were of high importance.
31
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
UNSDGs MATERIALITY MATTERS BUSINESS STRATEGIES
• Community Investment • Providing food to local
communities to support
community development in
Malaysia
Please refer to page 43 on
Engaging the Community
• Product Safety and Quality
• Product Innovation
• Occupational Health and Safety
• Adherence to relevant policies,
best practices, regulations and
food safety standards
• Focus on innovation to enhance
quality of products and inspire
people to eat healthier
• Increasing awareness of safety
and health by implementing
campaigns
• Focus on driving continuous
improvements through
customer engagements
• Continuous improvement of
occupational safety and health
systems
• Instituting strong employee
safety and wellbeing measures
against Covid-19
Please refer to Occupational
Health and Safety (page 42),
Product Innovation (page 35)
and Product Safety and Quality
(page 35)
2 ZERO
HUNGER
3.2.1 FY2020 Materiality Matters
3 GOOD HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING
3.2. Aligning with the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (UNSDGs)
The UNSDGs are a collection of 17 interlinked global goals to build
economic growth and address a range of social needs, ranging
from health and education to climate change and environmental
protection. It is essentially a blueprint to achieve a better and more
sustainable future for all.
Kawan is proud that it took its initial steps in 2019 to align with
the UNSDGs in this sustainability journey. In this process, it has
identified 5 UNSDGs where the Company has the biggest impact
in terms of risk and opportunity over the long term.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
32
UNSDGs MATERIALITY MATTERS BUSINESS STRATEGIES
• Economic Performance
• Corporate Governance and
Ethics
• Diversity and Inclusion
• Training and Development
• Ensuring sustainable business
performance and generating
employment opportunities
• Expanding e-commerce
development
• Exploring automation and
digitalisation, aligning with
Industry 4.0
• Promoting high standards of
business conduct
• Introduction of the ABC Policy,
with inclusion of MACC’s
corporate liability
• Provide equal employment and
no discrimination
• Sourcing of local workers
• Continuous training and
development of employees
• Providing universities with
internship opportunity
Please refer to Training,
Development and Talent
Management (page 41),
Diversity and Inclusion (page
39), Corporate Governance and
Ethics (page 26), Economic
Sustainability (page 33) and
Responsible Sourcing (page 34)
• Product Safety and Quality
• Responsible Sourcing
• Focus on driving continuous
improvements through
customer engagements
• Managing supply chain by
traceability and engagement
with suppliers
• Strengthening due diligence to
include legislative protection
• Focus on local sourcing
• Supports Roundtable on
Sustainable Palm Oil
Please refer to Responsible
Sourcing (page 34) and Product
Safety and Quality (page 35)
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
8 DECENT WORK AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH
33
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
UNSDGs MATERIALITY MATTERS BUSINESS STRATEGIES
• Climate Change and
Environmental Management
• Managing climate change risk
with pollution control
• Adopt energy efficient practices
in usage of natural resources
• Implementation of solar
photovoltaic system to reduce
carbon footprint
• 3R principles – reduce,
reuse and recycle for waste
management
Please refer to page 37
on Climate Change and
Environmental Management
Moving forward, Kawan will continue with efforts to further align itself in support of the identified UNSDGs.
4. Economic Pillar
4.1. Business Performance
Economic sustainability refers to practices that support long-term economic growth without negatively impacting
social, environmental and cultural aspects of the community. With this in mind, Kawan seeks to drive economic value
creation and share this amongst its internal and external stakeholders within its business ecosystem.
Economic Performance FY2020 FY2019 FY2018
*Group Revenue (RM) 254.7m 214.1m 200.0m
*Group Net Profit (RM) 27.7m 12.0m 22.8m
*Group Taxation (RM) 4.4m 3.3m 6.4m
Kawan Workforce 529 480 426
*Group refers to Kawan and its subsidiaries
For further information, please refer to the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this report.
4.1.1. Indirect Economic Value Generated
Description FY2020
(RM)
FY2019
(RM)
Total Payout to Employees (salaries and benefits) 27.3m 21.8m
Employees Provident Fund (EPF) 2.3m 1.9m
Social Security Organisation (SOCSO) 250,000 186,000
Human Resources Development (HRD) Levy 146,000 131,000
Employment Insurance System (EIS) 21,000 17,000
Kawan’s procurement strategy takes into consideration local sourcing. This strategy is evident in that 72% of its
suppliers are local, contributing to the economic wellbeing of local industries.
With effect from 1 February 2020, the Government has mandated that worker’s minimum wage be increased from
RM1,100 to RM1,200. Notwithstanding this, all employees at Kawan earn wages above this minimum scale.
13 CLIMATE
ACTION
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
34
4.1.2. Leveraging on Industry Opportunity
Kawan’s industry membership of the Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (“FMM”) and Malaysia External Trade
Development Corporation (“MATRADE”) presents avenues to enhance Kawan’s brand awareness and increase access
to business opportunities. It also provides an avenue for sharing of industry best practices and manufacturing process
advancements. On a broader note, it serves to project Malaysia’s manufacturing capacity, technological capability and
investor friendly environment.
4.1.3. Aligning with Industry 4.0
Kawan is consistently exploring avenues to tap onto technology, automation and digitalisation to improve production
efficiency and service quality. This has led to the Company’s own roadmap, aligned with the Government of Malaysia’s
‘Industry 4.0’ blueprint, aspiring to take Kawan to become a best-in-class food manufacturing company.
In FY2020, the Company invested in a solar photovoltaic system (details provided under the Energy Consumption
section of this report). Kawan’s use of its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) has resulted in insightful data analytics
on sales by products/regions, improved accuracy in orders and faster response time. This has led to improved decision
making and business agility for enhanced customer satisfaction.
Kawan has benefited from its digitalisation thrust with initiatives such as its online stores within the Klang Valley. This
has resulted in a record high sales growth in FY2020.
Kawan will drive automation to the next level in FY2021, aiming to enhance productivity and efficiency. In this, the
Company plans to explore digitalisation for various initiatives including Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE), Lean
manufacturing, integrated control system and computerised maintenance management system.
4.1.4. Responsible Sourcing
4.1.4.1. Purchasing Policy
To meet the Company’s high standards of quality and commitment to product safety, it adopted a Purchasing Policy,
overseen by Kawan’s Head of Purchasing Department. The policy also outlines the process of vetting new suppliers
for inclusion into an ‘Approved Supplier List’.
Kawan’s suppliers are selected on a meritorious, value proposition basis. This is defined by their quality of products
and services, competitive pricing, prior track record and business ethics.
With view to supporting the local industry and national economy, Kawan looks to incorporate local sourcing into its
procurement strategy. Selecting a supplier geographically closer to Kawan’s operations also means a reduction in lead
time and transportation costs, with the added benefit of reduced emission of pollution, given the reduced distance.
Kawan acknowledges the efforts of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”), a global, multi-stakeholder
initiative on sustainable palm oil. In FY2020, the Company initiated the process to be a member of RSPO.
4.1.4.2. Due Diligence on Suppliers
Quality and reliability are key factors required of Kawan’s suppliers and hence due diligence is critical. Audit on new
suppliers are conducted via questionnaires, requiring them to self-declare and provide relevant updated certifications.
Compliance audits are conducted on key or critical suppliers to ensure adherence to Kawan’s quality requirements
and compliance with regulatory hygiene practices.
Kawan will further strengthen its due diligence on suppliers pertaining to Child Labour, Forced Labour, Gender and
Racial Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Occupational Safety and Health (“OSH”). Moving forward, Kawan
aims to also conduct relevant audits of such areas.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
35
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
4.2. Commitment To Product Safety AND Quality
Kawan is uncompromising on upholding its stringent food safety policy, the bedrock of assurance to its customers
and the overall business. A team of trained safety personnel oversees all aspects of its product lifecycle, commencing
from sourcing of ingredients, research and development, production and packaging to product delivery itself. This
process aligns with international BRC food standards and is subjected to scrutiny by an independent third-party audit.
This team, reporting directly to the Managing Director (“MD”), ensures strict compliance with Kawan’s food safety
policy, covering, but not limited to:
• Sourcing for high-quality ingredients
• Regular auditing
• Managing potential risks using a robust Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system
• Continuous review and improvement of food safety systems and processes to validate quality of raw materials,
packaging, quality of products and suitable suppliers
• Invest where necessary in new equipment and technologies to maintain high food safety and quality standards
• Ongoing quality and safety related training programmes for employees
• Reinforcing a culture of good practices amongst employees
There were no product recalls in FY2020.
4.3. Product Innovation
At Kawan, product innovation is based on the principles of functionality, quality, sustainability and affordability. This
drives long term value of our products, as seen in the launch of 12 new innovative products in FY2020.
Please refer to MDNA on pages 10 to 11 of the Annual Report.
4.4. Customer Relationship Management
Kawan strives to continuously evolve to meet customer satisfaction. Customer feedback is important in addressing
issues early and to ensure high-quality products.
Kawan undertakes an annual customer satisfaction survey to gauge their perception of product quality, availability and
timeliness of product, customer care, complaints and overall satisfaction.
In FY2020, Kawan’s customer satisfaction survey recorded 339 respondents, a 44% decrease over 604 respondents
in FY2019. This is largely attributable to the focus on Movement Control Orders (MCO) due to Covid-19. The survey
revealed the following scores:
Market Category Respondents Assessment
(%)
Export Fully Satisfied 40 96
Neutral 7 4
TOTAL 47 100
Local Sales Excellent 46 16
Very Good 143 49
Good 95 32
Fair 7 2.6
Poor 1 0.4
TOTAL 150 100
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
36
Presence in Social Media
Kawan has been actively engaging members of the public on Facebook. This provides yet another avenue of
engagement to better understand customer’s preferences and market trends. In FY2020, driving interests via
captivating videos featuring easy-to-follow recipes, Kawan managed to garner 118,700 fans on its Facebook page,
https://www.facebook.com/kawanfood/. This represents an increase of almost 6,000 fans over FY2019.
Kawan drives exposure on various other social media channels such as its website http://kawanfood.com/, info@
kawanfood.com and Instagram (https://www.instagram.com/kawan_food/), enabling direct engagement with Kawan’s
trained sales personnel as well as via traditional channels such as emails and postal service.
Various avenues are available to receive queries, feedback and complaints. Besides the above social media channels,
Kawan has a hotline (+603 5511 8388) as well as a Chatbox at Kawan’s e-Commerce store. Complaints are acted
upon promptly by our Sales and Marketing Department, working conscientiously toward a successful resolution.
Kawan’s business software system which features automatic reminders to respective owners to follow up before the
due date, has facilitated improvements to this process.
In FY2020, there were a total of 91 cases of customer complaints, of which the resolution rate was 92%. Despite the
increased production in FY2020, there was a reduction of 9 cases (10%) in customer complaints, pointing to Kawan’s
increased levels of product quality and safety.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
37
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
5. ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR
5.1. Climate Change And Environmental Management
As a business organisation, Kawan is cognizant that, in the course of their business operations and within their
value chain, there might be impacts on climate change. Kawan has and is continuing to address emissions from its
production plants. For more information, please refer to the section below on Pollution Control.
Kawanhas formulatedanEnvironmentalPolicy(“thePolicy”),committingtomanagingandminimisingtheenvironmental
impact of its business operations. Aligning with related legislations, it focuses on pollution, consumption of water and
energy, waste products and recycling, amongst others.
5.2. Pollution Control
Kawan’s Environmental Policy includes managing GHG emissions. Kawan’s emission levels of carbon dioxide from its
manufacturing facilities are in compliance to the Department of Environment (DOE) Malaysia’s regulations. Kawan is
committed to exploring technology to further improve its manufacturing processes to reduce emissions.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
38
5.3. Energy Consumption
In FY2020, Kawan embarked on a Solar Photovoltaic System to lower energy costs and at the same time, to reduce
its carbon footprint. Installation of solar panels had commenced in October 2020 and is anticipated to be completed
by the first half of 2021. It is estimated that RM1.2 million per annum of the electricity bill will be saved. This is in line
with Kawan’s commitment for green, renewable, sustainable energy to mitigate the impact of climate change.
The higher efficiency of production achieved at Kawan’s manufacturing plants resulted in the lowering of its energy
usage, measured in kilowatt-hour per kilogam product (kWh/kg). Energy usage was reduced by 8.1%, to 0.68kWh/kg
in FY2020. The table below shows energy use at Kawan’s site:
Financial Year Kawan Food Pulau Indah
(kWh/kg)
2020 0.68
2019 0.74
2018 2.11
5.4. Water Consumption
Kawan is continually exploring means to optimise water consumption. Existing initiatives were adopted at Kawan
to manage water consumption include monitoring water bills for possible leakage and rainwater collection via
conservation tanks. Its wastewater treatment plant is currently operational, aiming to minimise the impact to the
environment.
The improvement in production efficiency at Kawan’s manufacturing plants also resulted in a decrease in water usage
by 15.2% to 0.0028m3/kg in FY2020.
The table below shows water consumption at Kawan’s site:
Financial Year Kawan Food Pulau Indah
(m3/kg)
2020 0.0028
2019 0.0033
2018 0.0069
5.5. Waste
Kawan has inculcated the global ‘3R’ concept within its operations to manage waste generated, namely to:
Reduce
Kawan constantly seeks out innovative production processes with the aim to reduce its material and paper consumption.
One such innovation is the use of the ERP system in which data is stored and monitored on a digital platform, moving
away from the use of paper. The Company has also installed auto wrap-film stretch to reduce material consumption.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
39
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Reuse
Kawan aims to reuse and recycle materials as much as possible. It has embarked on redistributing unsold edible
surplus food to local charities; whereby through this initiative, it successfully delivered over RM60,000 worth of food
in FY2020.
Recycle
Kawan has installed containers at appropriate operating sites, encouraging employees to deposit waste by separating
it into paper, plastic and glass. This, and food waste is collected by a third-party for use as animal feed. Funds
collected from this effort is used for employees’ welfare, thus further motivating the recycling drive.
Scheduled (hazardous) waste such as compressor oil and glycol are collected by DOE authorised third-party
contractors for responsible disposal or treatment.
Disposal of Kawan’s waste and effluents are managed in accordance with statutory provisions outlined in the
Environmental Quality (Schedules Wastes) Regulations 2014 and Environmental Quality (Industrial Effluent) Regulations
2009.
There were no fines for any offence in violation of the environmental laws in FY2020.
6. SOCIAL PILLAR
6.1. Workforce
Kawan is aware of the importance of its workforce in enabling a key strategic competitive advantage. This drives its
value creation for its stakeholders which translates into economic, environmental and social development.
6.2. Diversity and Inclusion
Kawan proudly acknowledges diversity as a strength. Guided by its Diversity Policy, Kawan continues to promote a
work culture with emphasis on equality and fairness of opportunity, as well as openness and freedom from bias and
discrimination.
As at 31 December 2020, Kawan’s workforce of 529 employees comprise of 152 Malays, 87 Chinese, 31 Indians and
54 of other races, totaling 324 Malaysians or 61% of total workforce. 205 foreign nationals made up the balance of
39%.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
40
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Age Distribution 2020
(%)
2019
(%)
2018
(%)
< 30 years old 48 42 39
30 – 39 years old 31 36 35
40 – 49 years old 13 13 17
≥ 50 years old 8 9 9
Workforce By Gender
Male 68 69 57
Female 32 31 43
Workforce Diversity
Malay 29 32 32
Chinese 16 16 16
Indian 6 7 7
Other races 10 1 1
Foreign nationals 39 44 44
Despite the challenges imposed by the ongoing pandemic, Kawan’s workforce grew by 10% in FY2020 to 529
employees. Kawan’s employment of foreign nationals reduced to 205 employees in FY2020 from 211 employees in
FY2019, representing a 5% decrease from its overall workforce. This aligns with the Government’s calls to support
local employment.
The Company’s gender profile in FY2020 showed a marginal 1% increase in female employees to 32% over FY2019.
The higher percentage of male employees is due to the nature of its operation.
Within Kawan’s workforce, 254 employees representing 48% fall into the category of below 30 years old, with 164
employees or 31% in the 30-39 years old category.
6.3. Recruitment Campaigns and Induction Programmes
Kawan seeks to employ candidates based on merit and competency, and with the right attitude to add value to the
Group’s operations.
In FY2020, recruitment drives were conducted in neighbouring areas such as Pulau Indah and Klang, with the emphasis
on hiring Malaysians, irrespective of physical challenges or socio-economic status.
Kawan has registered with the Employment Recruitment Incentives Programme (Penjana Kerjaya) and has reached
out to unemployed youths via a carnival organised by the Social Security Organisation (SOCSO). Kawan’s recruitment
initiatives proved a success where 133 people were recruited in FY2020, particularly noteworthy given the employment
opportunity difficulty experienced in the wake of the pandemic.
To minimise disruption to business operations, Kawan continued to roll out its succession planning exercise, particularly
for key positions. Furthermore, the Company launched an employee share option scheme (ESOS) to offer employees
ownership interest in the business.
6.4. Grievance Policy
Employees at Kawan who feel any decision, behaviour or action affecting their employment is unfair, may lodge
their grievance with their managers. This process is assured under Kawan’s Grievance Policy which underlines the
procedures and process of escalation to the appropriate level for investigation and resolution. Opportunity will be
given to all parties involved to provide clarification to enable a clearer picture to which HR would facilitate toward
resolution.
41
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
6.5. Training, Development and Talent Management
At Kawan, it is the fundamentals of Kawan’s talent management strategy to assist employees in realising their
capability, charting their career pathway and achieving their potential. Using a performance management system,
employees are provided with a framework to take ownership of their work, taking them from where they are currently,
to where they wish to go in their careers.
Despite the challenges brought by the pandemic in FY2020, Kawan continued its strong emphasis on training and
development activities for its employees in areas such as:
• Good research and laboratory practices
• Food safety, allergen, food handling, hygiene and critical control points
• Principles of manufacturing, such as GMP, lean manufacturing, inventory and waste management
• Regulatory aspects relating to food manufacturing and halal certification
• Business skill training, covering leadership, management, sales tactics and negotiation
• Employer’s legislative responsibility for employment, audit, corporate liability and employees’ minimum living
standards
Simultaneously, Kawan seeks to attract and retain talent to ensure a sustainable growth by utilising various channels,
including jobs portals for recruitment. In an effort to attract new talent, Kawan provides universities with opportunities
in internship programmes. In FY2020, the Company accepted 28 interns from 8 Universities, a 65% increase in
number of interns over FY2019.
6.6. Awards
Annually, Kawan celebrates the achievements and contribution of its staff qualifying for “Long Service Awards”. In
FY2020, 59 employees received their long service awards in recognition of their loyalty to the company, one of whom
had served for 37 years at Kawan. This is a testimony of the conducive workplace environment at Kawan.
Tenure at Kawan
(Years)
Qualifying Employees in
FY2020
10 – 15 41
16 – 20 14
21 – 25 1
26 – 30 2
Above 30 1
6.7 Workforce Engagement
Aligning with the pandemic safety measures, staff engagement activities such as annual dinners and onsite
teambuilding sessions had to be deferred. Instead, virtual platforms were extensively utilised to reach out to Kawan’s
employees to ensure key messages and announcements were cascaded to maintain engagement and motivation. A
town hall was organised to brief employees on the implementation of the Company’s employee share option scheme,
its processes, entitlement and other related areas.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
42
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
7. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS)
7.1. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)
To ensure the health and safety of its employees, the Company continually reviews and enhances measures to further
strengthen its existing Occupational Health and Safety Policy (“The Safety Policy”) to cover its processes, operations
and environment for the workforce and related stakeholders.
This Safety Policy is endorsed by the MD, with the Board having oversight on health and safety matters amongst
employees. In addition, the Board works to provide resources to ensure employees understand and comply with such
matters.
7.2. HSE Committee
The HSE Committee is headed by the MD as the Advisor and assisted by the HSE Committee Chairman who is the
Senior Factory Manager. This Committee convenes quarterly and submits a monthly report for review by the HSE
Committee Chairman and the GMD.
7.3. HSE Risks
Kawan endeavours to inculcate a strong safety conscious mindset throughout the organisation in order to reduce or
avoid mishap at the workplace.
Kawan conducts quarterly assessments for higher risk areas which is deliberated at the Risk Management’s
Review Meeting and recorded in the Risk Register. Some of the key areas that are identified as higher risk areas
are refrigeration, production, warehouse’s Automated Storage and Retrieval System (“ASRS”). Various mitigation
measures have been instituted, such as installing ammonia detectors for possible leaks. In addition, Kawan conducts
various safety training, inspections, monitoring and reporting of all safety incidents.
A total of 21 mishaps were recorded in FY2020 compared to 19 in the previous year. Moving forward, more effort will
be made to strengthen the mandatory safety induction course for new factory workers to familiarise them with the
handling of machinery.
Kawan continued to implement OSH/HSE activities at the workplace, such as:
• Daily workplace inspections and walkabouts, with regular safety talks and toolbox briefings
• Emergency preparedness trainings for Emergency Response Team (“ERT”), including basic first aid, firefighting
and use of automated external defibrillator
• Regular on-the-job training sessions on HSE competency and awareness
• Continuous safety awareness, audiometric test and assessments for noise risk and chemical health risk
• Specialised skill training for forklift operators
43
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
7.4. Addressing COVID-19 Health and Safety Risks
Complying with the Government’s Standard Operating
Procedures (“SOPs”) to curb the spread of Covid-19
infection, Kawan is proud to note of its employees’
commitment to embrace the mandatory measures,
not just for health reasons but in support of Kawan’s
business continuity, given its essential service listing
by the Government to maintain operations during this
period.
An internal Covid-19 Task Force was set up to focus
on the potential impact of the pandemic on Kawan’s
operations and manage issues with appropriate
mitigation plans in place. A crisis management training
was provided to HODs with a Covid-19 awareness
briefing for all employees. In addition, a video with
inspirational messages was produced to motivate
employees mentally against Covid-19.
Regular staff updates via chatgroups and emails on the evolving pandemic situation, mandated SOPs and general
guidelines helped promote employees’ awareness and understanding. This also helped to alleviate undue anxiety
amongst employees.
Kawan aligns with regulatory accommodation requirements for its foreign workers. Hostel inspections are conducted
by Kawan’s HR every 15 days, in accordance with the Employee Accommodation Inspection Checklist/ Report.
Corrective action is taken where needed to ensure it meets this stringent checklist.
The stringent measures instituted by the Government and by Kawan have contributed toward the wellbeing and safety
of its employees.
8. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
8.1. Engaging the Community
Over the years, Kawan has worked hard to instil in employees a spirit of caring and consideration for the less fortunate.
By reaching out to deserving organisations and individuals to lend a helping hand as part of its CSR initiatives,
employees have come to accept this altruistic behaviour not just as Kawan’s corporate lifestyle, but as theirs as well.
Such a spirit is what led to the formation of a voluntary group called “Comm3”. Headed by the Marketing Head
together with Corporate Affairs, this group drove Kawan’s CSR initiatives. In view of the ongoing pandemic and
restriction on movements in FY2020, their efforts were focused on food donations to charity groups.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
44
Community initiatives undertaken in FY2020 are listed below:
No. Beneficiary Organisation/Home Food Cartons
1. Welfare homes/organisations,
the destitute, refugee
communities
Food Aid Foundation 542
2. Old Folks Home Puchong Old Folks Homes 367
3. Unemployed Foreign Workers Daily Bread Food Bank – Glad Tidings
Church PJ
341
4. Underprivileged Families Sai Ananda Foundation Malaysia 19
5. Pusat Penjagaan Orang Tua Sentosa 15
6. Ti-Ratana Welfare Society 14
7. Great Heart Community Centre 14
8. Persatuan Kebajikan Istimewa Insan 14
9. Restaurant Al Mubarak 11
10. Pertubuhan Kebajikan Orang Tua and
Kanak-kanak Cacat Shan Al
10
11. Family residing at 14, Jalan Anggerik 2C,
Prima Beruntung, Bukit Beruntung Rawang,
48300 Selangor
6
12. Family residing at 2, Lorong Sentul Bahagia
4, Kampung Sentul Pasar, 51100 Wilayah
Persekutuan
6
13. Pertiwi Soup Kitchen 4
14 Yayasan Seribu Harapan Malaysia 4
TOTAL 1,367
9. MOVING FOWARD
Despite the unprecedented challenges faced in FY2020, Kawan remains resilient and steadfast in reviewing its
sustainability disclosures, identifying improvement opportunities and strengthening its overall approach to practicing
sustainability, firmly upholding its EES framework.
Aligning with regulatory requirements and learning from best practice standards, Kawan integrates sustainability firmly
into its business and operational strategies throughout all levels of the Company.
Working alongside its stakeholders, Kawan aspires to enrich lives, generate fulfilling employment, create strong
business prospects and contribute back to the community. Kawan will continue to manage future challenges and
capitalise on opportunities to strengthen its position as one of Malaysia’s largest manufacturers and the leading
exporter of frozen Asian food delicacies worldwide.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
45
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
Gan Thiam Chai (“Mr. T.C. Gan”) was appointed to
the Board on 1 June 2005 and has been the Executive
Chairman since 1 March 2010.
Mr. T.C. Gan has accumulated more than 30 years of
experience in the food processing industry. After leaving
school in 1971, he joined Behn Meyer Industries Sdn.
Bhd. as a Technical Assistant. He left the company
in 1976 and set up Kian Guan Trading Co. in 1977. In
1984, he founded Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
(“KFM”). The growth of KFM from small business to an
award-winning enterprise is attributable to his efforts.
His business acumen and sound technical knowledge in
the food industry is an invaluable asset to the Group.
He is responsible for the overall business planning
and development, product research and development,
transformation and modernisation of food production
process through automation, formulation of companies’
strategic plans and policies.
Mr. T.C. Gan is the husband of Mdm. Kwan Sok Kay,
brother of Mr. Gan Thiam Hock and father of Mdm. Gan
Ka Bien. He has no conflict of interest with the Company
except that he is a substantial shareholder of the
Company. He has never been convicted for any offence
within the past five (5) years. He attended all the six (6)
Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
December 2020.
Gan Thiam Chai
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 67
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
46
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Gan Thiam Hock (“Mr. T.H. Gan”) was appointed to the
Board on 1 June 2005.
Mr. T.H. Gan has over 30 years of experience in the
marketing of pastry and frozen food products. After
leaving school in 1981, he joined Mr. T. C. Gan at Kian
Guan Trading Co.. He is also the co-founder of KFM and
holding the position of the Sales Director, a position he
continues to hold until today.
Mr. T.H. Gan is responsible for the overall expansion and
development of the marketing networks of the Group,
as well as implementation of sales, distributions and
promotional activities for the domestic market.
Mr. T.H. Gan is the brother of Mr. T.C. Gan and brother-
in-law to Mdm. Kwan Sok Kay. He has no conflict
of interests with the Company except that he is a
substantial shareholder of the Company. He has never
been convicted for any offence within the past five (5)
years. He attended all the six (6) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
GAN THIAM HOCK
NON-INDEPENDENT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 58
47
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Kwan Sok Kay (“Mdm. Kwan”) was appointed to the
Board on 1 June 2005.
After leaving school in 1973, she was involved in
book-keeping work in several companies until she
joined Unic Plastics Industries Sdn. Bhd., a plastic
products manufacturing company, as an Account cum
Administrative Assistant in 1975. Subsequently, she
joined KFM in 1984 as a Director, before holding the post
of Finance Director in 1986.
Mdm. Kwan is responsible for the financial management
and administrative functions of the Group, as well as
the implementation of accounting and operational
procedures and human resource policies.
Mdm. Kwan is the wife of Mr. T.C. Gan, sister-in-law of
Mr. T.H. Gan and mother of Mdm. Gan Ka Bien. She has
no conflict of interests with the Company except that
she is a substantial shareholder of the Company. She
has never been convicted for any offence within the past
five (5) years. She attended all the six (6) Board Meetings
held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
KWAN SOK KAY
NON-INDEPENDENT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER F
AGE 66
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
48
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Gan Ka Bien (“Mdm. K.B. Gan”) was appointed to the
Board on 24 November 2020. She has over 15 years of
experience in marketing.
Mdm. K.B. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Business
from the University of Technology in Sydney, Australia
in 2002. She also obtained a Diploma in Marketing
Research from Marketing Research Society of Australia.
In 2017, she becomes a licensed Master Practitioner of
Neuro-Linguistic Programming.
In 2003, Mdm. K.B. Gan started her career as a Business
Manager with KFM. She was involved in promoting
products to overseas and domestic markets. She was
subsequently promoted as a Senior Business Manager of
KFM in 2012, during which she has success in launching
multiple products.
In 2019, Mdm. K.B. Gan was appointed as the Head
of Marketing, managing the Group’s entire marketing
initiatives in creating a differentiated Kawan brand for
all of the Group’s products with long term strategies.
Being the head leading the Group’s Corporate Social
Responsibility, she plays an active role in building
confidence in Kawan, its leaders and stakeholders.
Mdm. K.B. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan and Mdm.
Kwan. She has no conflict of interests with the Company.
She has never been convicted for any offence within the
past five (5) years. She attended one (1) Board Meeting
held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020
since her appointment on 24 November 2020.
GAN KA BIEN
NON-INDEPENDENT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER F
AGE 40
49
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud (“Dr. Nik”) was appointed
to the Board on 2 January 2017. He was appointed
by the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director on 8 April 2019. He is also the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, a member of Audit Committee
and Nominating Committee of the Company.
Dr. Nik graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science
(Hons) from University of Malaya in 1975. Subsequently,
he obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Food Science
from the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium in 1976,
a Master of Science in Food Science & Microbiology from
University of Strathclyde, Scotland in 1978, a PhD in Food
Science from University of London, United Kingdom
in 1983 and a Master of Business Administration from
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (“UKM”) in 1987.
He began his career as a lecturer on various subjects
including food quality and safety systems, food
microbiology, food analysis, new product development,
food legislation and operations management,
management of biotechnology and entrepreneurship in
science and technology for undergraduate and graduate
levels in UKM in 1978. He has also conducted workshops
for many food companies and government agencies
on food technology and industry related topics since
1983. His industry experience includes holding positions
in food companies. He was appointed as Managing
Director of UKM Holdings Sdn Bhd in 2006 till 2014.
Dr. Nik had been a member of various committees
including National HACCP and Audit Committee,
Technical Advisory Committee on Malaysian Food
Regulations, 1985, Technical Committee of the National
Food Safety Council, Malaysia, Member of National Food
Safety and Nutrition Council, Malaysia, National Codex
Alimentarius Committee, Malaysia Standards (“MS”) on
Coffee, Beverages, Flour, Starches and Food Safety and
a Member of the Industrial Standard of Food and Food
Products. Currently he chairs the drafting of revised MS
on coffee and coffee products.
Dr. Nik was the President of the Malaysian Institute of
Food Technology for 18 years until 2014 and was also
the former President of Federation of Institute Food
Science and Technology, Association of South East
Asian Nations (FIFSTA). He is a Fellow of International
Academy of Food Science and Technology. He was
appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director
of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad on 30 June 2011 and had
retired from the board on 30 April 2020.
Dr. Nik does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and
has no conflict of interest with the Company. He has
never been convicted for any offence within the past five
(5) years. He attended all the six (6) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
DR. NIK ISMAIL
BIN NIK DAUD
SENIOR INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 70
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
50
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor (“En. Abdul Razak”) was
appointed to the Board on 16 August 2016. He ceased as
a member of the Nominating Committee of the Company
on 24 November 2020.
En. Abdul Razak attended Institute Technology MARA,
Malaysia, majoring in Insurance. He has obtained
Certificate from Lloyd’s of London, Chartered Insurance
Institute (Cert. CII), United Kingdom (“UK”) and Institute
of Risk Management (Cert. IRM), UK and is a Fellow of
the Malaysian Insurance Institute (FMII). He has more
than thirty-eight (38) years extensive working experience
in risk management, insurance and financial services
sector in Malaysia and internationally. He has served in
key regional management positions in South-East Asia
and the Middle East and North Africa for multinational/
international organisations. Currently, En. Abdul Razak
is the Founder and Managing Director of Esperanza
Management Advisors Sdn. Bhd., a Specialist Risk
Management consulting services firm and Chairman
of Alloy Insurance Brokers Sdn. Bhd., a Bank Negara
licensed insurance, reinsurance and takaful insurance
broking company.
En. Abdul Razak does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company
and has no conflict of interest with the Company. He has
never been convicted for any offence within the past five
(5) years. He attended all the six (6) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
ABDUL RAZAK
BIN SHAKOR
NON-INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 63
51
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim (“Mr. Lim”) was appointed
to the Board on 21 October 2015. He is the Chairman
of the Audit Committee and a member of Remuneration
Committee of the Company. He was also appointed as a
member of the Nominating Committee of the Company
on 24 November 2020.
Mr. Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics
from the University of Leeds in 1978 and subsequently
joined Peat Marwick Mitchell (now known as KPMG)
in the United Kingdom (“UK”) in 1978. He qualified as
a member of the Institute of Taxation, UK in 1981 and
as a Chartered Accountant in England and Wales in
1982. He returned to Malaysia in 1982 to continue his
service with KPMG, and was admitted as a member of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) and the
Malaysian Association of Certified Public Accountants
(now known as the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (“MICPA”)) in 1982 and 1984 respectively.
Mr. Lim had an extensive career serving as an Auditor in
KPMG, spanning 33 years. During his career with KPMG,
he was admitted as Partner of the firm in 1990 and
served in the Management Committee of the firm from
1997 to 2001 and in KPMG’s Partnership Supervisory
Council from 2002 to 2010. He was also the Asian
Anchor Practice representative for Marketing from 2000
to 2001, in which role he gained extensive and insightful
knowledge from KPMG Global counterparts worldwide.
In 2006, he was tasked to start up the Audit Committee
Institute, Malaysia (“ACI Malaysia”), which is a virtual
worldwide initiative sponsored by KPMG to assist
independent directors in enhancing their awareness and
ability to implement effective board processes.
Mr. Lim actively served as an examiner for Company Law
examinations conducted by the MICPA for over a period
of ten (10) years. He was the Chairman of the MICPA
Code of Ethics Committee and a member of the MIA
Code of Ethics Committee, both from 2002 to 2004. He
retired from KPMG in 2011.
In 2013, he was appointed as Council member of The
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales
(“ICAEW”). This was the first time that ICAEW, in its
illustrious history had granted Malaysia a seat in the
Council. The position was for a term of two (2) years
till 2015. He was reappointed for a further two terms till
March 2019 (being the maximum permitted tenure).
Mr. Lim sits on the Board of several public listed
companies, namely Ranhill Utilities Berhad (formerly
known as Ranhill Holdings Berhad), Manulife Holdings
Berhad and Press Metal Aluminium Holdings Berhad as
an Independent Non-Executive Director. He also holds
directorships in Manulife Insurance Berhad, Fairview
Schools Berhad, Rockwills Trustee Bhd and Affin
Investment Berhad (in Member’s Voluntary Liquidation).
Mr. Lim retired from Affin Hwang Investment Bank
Berhad on 31 March 2021 after having served 9 years as
Independent Non-Executive Director (maximum tenure
permitted for Financial Institution). He was appointed
as Independent Non-Executive Director of Public
Investment Bank Berhad on 5 April 2021.
Mr. Lim does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He
has never been convicted for any offence within the past
five (5) years. He attended all the six (6) Board Meetings
held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
LIM HUN SOON @
DAVID LIM
INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 65
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
52
Board Of Directors’ Profiles
(cont’d)
Eugene Hon Kah Weng (“Mr. Eugene”) was appointed
to the Board on 22 November 2018. He is the Chairman
of the Nominating Committee and a member of the Audit
Committee and the Remuneration Committee of the
Company.
Mr. Eugene started his training in accountancy in 1979
with a reputable accounting firm and qualified as a
Certified Public Accountant in 1985 with the Malaysian
Association of Certified Public Accountants (now
renamed as the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants). He was also admitted into the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants as a Chartered Accountant.
Mr. Eugene left the accountancy profession in 1991
and assumed a senior position with a large financial
services group covering businesses of merchant
banking, finance, insurance, leasing, money broking and
consumer financing. In 2011, he joined the Central Bank
as Finance Director. While with these organisations, he
gained extensive experience in management, finance,
risk management and corporate governance. At the
Central Bank, Mr. Eugene acquired invaluable leadership
skills and gained extensive experience in corporate
governance and risk management relating to central
banking operations.
Over the years, Mr. Eugene held key management
positions, was a key member of various group
committees and also served as a nominee director on
the boards of various group companies of the financial
services group. At the Central Bank, Mr. Eugene was a
key member of the financial risk management committee,
crisis management committee and served on the board
of trustees for the trust funds of the Bank.
Mr. Eugene has also been appointed as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of Affin Hwang Investment Bank
Berhad on 1 March 2021.
Mr. Eugene does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company
and has no conflict of interest with the Company. He has
never been convicted for any offence within the past five
(5) years. He attended all the six (6) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
EUGENE HON
KAH WENG
NON-INDEPENDENT
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NATIONALITY
GENDER M
AGE 62
53
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Ng Hooi Khai
Group Chief Executive Officer
NATIONALITY 59
AGE M
GENDER
Appointment to current position: August 2020
Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Science, National Cheng Kung
University, Taiwan (Major in Engineering Science)
Working Experience:
• More than 28 years of manufacturing experiences
in the areas of supply chain management, quality
assurance, custom & government affairs, having
worked in manufacturing and multi-national
companies.
• At Meiyume China (Li & Fung Group, Hong
Kong), he was responsible for managing its
manufacturing operations, driving strategies and
business budget.
• Started his corporate exposures with LF Asia
Group (f.k.a. IDS Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd) in 1993
and thereafter as a Commercial Director in 2004
in which year he had embarked on the journey to
develop corporate management dynamics. He
was subsequently appointed as a Manufacturing
Director in 2008.
• He attended various leadership courses since the
year 2004 to grind his business acumen in the highly
competitive business environment and in 2012, he
had attended a leadership program facilitated by the
Standford Center for Professional Development.
Chay Wai Yee
Financial Controller
NATIONALITY 52
AGE F
GENDER
Appointment to current position: June 2020
Qualifications:
• Chartered Accountant - Member of Malaysian
Institute of Accountants
• Certified Practising Accountant - Member of CPA
Australia
Working Experience:
• More than 25 years working experience in the areas
of accounting, finance operations, tax compliance
and planning and corporate finance. Prior to joining
of the Group, she worked in various types of listed
and private companies including manufacturing,
property development and construction, trading,
investment holdings and others.
KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES
Khoo Boo Seng, Raymond
Head of Export
NATIONALITY 51
AGE M
GENDER
Appointment to current position: March 2017
Qualifications:
• SPM
Working Experience:
• More than 20 years experiences in the areas
of domestic and export sales of Fast Moving
Consumer Goods (FMCG) products, having
worked in various companies that specialise in
distributorship.
• He joined in May 2010 as Business Manager and
was promoted to Head of Export in 2017.
Low Chiew Lan
HR & Operations Manager
NATIONALITY 61
AGE F
GENDER
Appointment to current position: March 2013
Qualifications:
• MCE Certificate
• LCCI Intermediate (Accounts)
Working Experience:
• More than 35 years experiences in the areas of
accounting, human resource management and
administration, having worked in public listed
FMCG companies prior to joining the Group.
• She joined in February 2003 as HR Officer and
was promoted to HR & Operations Manager in
March 2010.
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
54
Key Management’s Profiles
(cont’d)
Lim Heng Hee, Albert
National Sales Manager
NATIONALITY 60
AGE M
GENDER
Appointment to current position: January 2012
Qualifications:
• Diploma in Diesel Engineering
• Diploma in Marketing
• LCCI Higher (Commercial Law)
Working Experience:
• More than 30 years of experiences in the areas of
sales and marketing of FMCG products, having
worked in trading and manufacturing companies.
• He was appointed as Sales Manager in April 2006
and subsequently promoted to National Sales
Manager in 2012.
Zhao Jian Jian
Operational General Manager
of Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd
NATIONALITY 56
AGE M
GENDER
Date of Appointment to current position: August 2009
Qualifications:
• Food Engineering specialty, Nanjing Agricultural
University
Working Experience:
• More than 30 years experiences in the areas of
production, quality control and operation in large
food manufacturing and foreign food companies
prior to joining the Group.
• He joined in August 2009 as Plant Manager and was
promoted to Operational General Manager in March
2018.
Yan Wei Dong
General Manager of Kawan Food
(Nantong) Co., Ltd
NATIONALITY 53
AGE M
GENDER
Date of Appointment to current position: March 2012
Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Machinery, Shanghai University
• Executive Master of Business Administration, Dumex
Management Institute
Working experience:
• More than 20 years of experiences in the areas of
marketing, sales and business development in the
FMCG multi-national companies prior to joining the
Group.
• He joined Kawan in March 2012 as General Manager
of Kawan Food Nantong.
Additional notes on the above key senior
management
None of the above key senior management has
any:
(i)		
directorship in public companies and listed
issuers;
(ii) family relationship with any director and/or
major shareholder of the Company;
(iii) conflict of interests with the Company; and
(iv) conviction for offences within the past five (5)
years, and public sanction or penalty imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies on him or her
during the financial year ended 31 December
2020, which require disclosure pursuant to
paragraph 4A(g) of Part A of Appendix 9C
of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
55
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the Company”) advocates the principles of
good corporate governance. Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”), the Board and the
Company continue to enhance its corporate governance processes to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”) are aligned with best practices.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview Statement”) explains how the Company has applied the
following three (3) key principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) during the FY2020:
Principle A Board Leadership and Effectiveness
Principle B Effective Audit and Risk Management
Principle C Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
This statement is prepared in compliance with Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report for detailed disclosures
of the Company’s application of the principles in the MCCG, which is available on the Company’s website at www.
kawanfood.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for setting strategic directions of the Group and oversees the business affairs
of the Group to ensure long-term success. The Board’s role and responsibilities, authorities and schedule of matters
reserved for the Board are detailed in the Board Charter which is available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.
In order to ensure effective discharge of the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has delegated some of its authority
and powers to its Committees, namely, Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee (“Board
Committees”).
56
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Governance structure
The Board
The Board is responsible to promote long term sustainable success and generate
value for shareholders and stakeholders
Board Committees
Assist the Board in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities. The Board Committees are
responsible for overseeing activities within its Terms of Reference
Audit Committee (“AC”)
Responsibilities:
• Internal audit
• External audit
• Risk management
• Financial reporting
• Audit reports
• Related party transactions
• Internal controls
• Conflict of interest
Nominating Committee (“NC”)
Responsibilities:
• Board size and composition
• Selection and recruitment of
directors
• Board performance evaluation
• Committees performance
evaluation
• Directors’ training
Remuneration Committee (“RC”)
Responsibilities:
• Remuneration packages
• Directors’ fees and benefits
• Performance measures for
incentive plans
Group Managing Director (“GMD”)/Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”)
Group Management Team
Board Activities in FY2020
• Considered impact of Corona Virus (“COVID-19”) and received updates on the revised plan for FY2020 in light
of COVID-19;
• Received reports and updates from the GMD and/or GCEO on operational and financial performance of the
Group and other key matters;
• Approved the Revised Financial Budget and Capex Budget for FY2020;
• Deliberated and approved the Group’s financial budget for financial year ending 2021;
• Approved the Company’s full year and interim results;
• Approved the proposed interim single-tier dividend;
• Discussed updates on corporate governance and regulatory matters;
• Received updates from the Chair of the AC on its oversight of financial performance, related party transactions,
internal controls, risks and management on the work undertaken by each committee;
• Discussed and approved the appointment of the Executive Director and GCEO;
• Approved the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) and revised Whistleblowing Policy deleted
closed Board charter;
• Received updates on Kawan’s Industry 4.0 strategy, Enterprise Resource Planning system, Renewable Energy
Solar Photovoltaics System, water treatment system and Automated Retrieval System; and
• Considered and recommended the proposed authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares for
shareholders’ approval.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
57
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Division of responsibilities
The details of Board’s responsibilities are set out in the Board Charter which are available online at www.kawanfood.com.
Executive Chairman
The roles of the Chairman and GMD/GCEO are separate and distinct. There
is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles. The Chairman is
responsible for providing leadership and instilling good corporate governance
and effectiveness of the Board.
Executive Directors (“EDs”) The EDs are responsible for day-to-day management of the business operations.
GMD/GCEO
The GMD/GCEO is primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the
Group’s business within a set of authorities, Group’s strategies, policies and
business plans approved and delegated by the Board.
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
(“SINED”)
The SINED acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an
intermediary for other directors when necessary. He is also the point of contact for
major shareholders and other stakeholders as well as a liaison for whistleblowing.
Independent Non-
Executive Directors
(“INEDs”)
The INEDs are responsible for providing insights, unbiased and independent views,
advice and judgement to the Board and to ensure effective checks and balances
on the Board. The INEDs are essential for protecting the interest of shareholders,
in particular minority shareholders, and can make significant contributions to the
Company’s decision making by bringing in the quality of detached impartiality.
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Directors
(“NINEDs”)
The NINEDs utilise their skills, expertise and experience to contribute to the
development of the Group as a whole.
The Board members have unrestricted access to the information pertaining to the Company to discharge their duties
and responsibilities. The Board also has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries and may obtain
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense as and when necessary.
Code of Conduct and Ethics, ABC Policy and Whistleblowing Policy
The Company has put in place a Code of Conduct and Ethics (“CoCE”) to ensure transparent and ethical conduct that
permeates throughout the Group.
In FY2020, the Board also reviewed and approved the ABC Policy to manage risk in relation to fraud, bribery and
corruption practices. Additionally, Whistleblowing Policy was revised to provide avenues for employees and other
stakeholders to disclose concerns relating to violations or improper conduct or wrongdoings or non-compliance with
legal and regulations requirements within the Group.
The CoCE, Whistleblowing Policy and ABC Policy are available at the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
Time Commitment
The Board meets once quarterly with additional meetings being convened whenever necessary, to discharge their
responsibilities effectively. The Senior Management are also invited to meetings for presentation, if required.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
58
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Time Commitment (continued)
The attendance of the Directors at Board and its Committee meetings for FY2020 are as follows:
Member(s) Board AC NC RC
Gan Thiam Chai
Executive Chairman
6/6
Timothy Tan Heng Han##
Group Managing Director
6/6
Gan Thiam Hock
Executive Director
6/6
Kwan Sok Kay
Executive Director
6/6
Gan Ka Bien**
Executive Director
1/1
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 6/6 1/1
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim^
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 1/1
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 5/5 6/6 1/1
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor@
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6 6/6
Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha*
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
3/3
## resigned as GMD on 1 January 2021
** appointed as Executive Director on 24 November 2020
@ ceased as NC member on 24 November 2020
^ appointed as NC member on 24 November 2020
* retired as Non-Independent Non-Executive Director on 19 June 2020
Board Training and Development
The Board acknowledges the importance of continuous education and training programmes for directors to discharge its
responsibilities effectively and to be apprised of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such regulatory
requirements will have on the Group. The Company Secretaries circulate and brief the relevant guidelines on statutory
and regulatory requirements from time to time and for the Board’s reference.
All Directors including new attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as required by the MMLR of Bursa
Securities.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
59
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Board Training and Development (continued)
The Directors of the Company had attended the following training programmes, workshops, briefing and seminars
during FY2020:
Directors Courses/Seminar/Conference
Gan Thiam Chai • Webinar on Corporate Liability and Major Corruption Offences
• Leadership Excellence From the Chair
Timothy Tan Heng Han • Webinar on Corporate Liability and Major Corruption Offences
Gan Thiam Hock • Webinar on Corporate Liability and Major Corruption Offences
Kwan Sok Kay • Webinar on Corporate Liability and Major Corruption Offences
Gan Ka Bien • Webinar on Corporate Liability and Major Corruption Offences
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme (31 March 2021-2 April 2021)
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud • Webinar on Corporate Liability
• KPMG Webinar Series - Audit Committee Institute Virtual Roundtable 2020
• IUFoST, UNIDO and PARERA Partnership – Webinar on Supporting The
Resilience of The Food Production Sector and Limiting Food Supply
Disruption
• Webinar on Post Covid-Financial Risk: Forum with Risk and Compliance
Practitioners
• Webinar on ACB Act 2018, Section 17A: Protecting You And Your Business
With T.R.U.S.T
• Webinar on Demystifying Future of Work
Lim Hun Soon @
David Lim
• Webinar on Covid-19 & Current Economic Reality: Implications for Financial
Stability
• Webinar on Outthink the Competition: Excelling ina Post Covid 19 World
• Webinar on 3rd Distinguished Board Leadership Series – “Challenging
Times: What Role Must the Board Play”
• Webinar on Raising Defences – Section 17A, MACC Act
• Webinar on 4th Distinguished Board Leadership Series
• IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
• Webinar on Tech Faculty Lecture 2020: AI Through the looking glass
• Webinar on Climate Action: The Board’s Leadership in Greening the
Financial Sector
• Webinar on Green Fintech: Ping An’s journey to becoming a top ESG
performing FI
• Webinar on PwC Malaysia’s Budget 2021 Webinar: Paving the way towards
as resilient future
Eugene Hon Kah Weng • Webinar on Restructuring in Time of Crisis - Episode 1
• Webinar on The Future of AGMs - Fully Virtual/Hybrid
• Webinar on COVID19 Impact on Accounting and Internal Controls
• Webinar on Outthink the Competition: Excelling in a Post COVID19 World
• KPMG Webinar Series - Audit Committee Institute Virtual Roundtable 2020
• Webinar on Tax Implications on Debt Restructuring
• Webinar on Integrated Reporting - Impact of COVID19 on Value Creation
• FIDE Forum Invitation - Digital Financial Institutions Series: Fidor’s
Experience
• Training on Convene App for Samsung Tab
• Webinar on Tax Budget
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
60
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Board Training and Development (continued)
Directors Courses/Seminar/Conference
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor • Webinar Live – International FAROSOL Trade Credit Conference
• Esperanza Business Webinar – The Post Pandemic Challenges for Project
Development in Malaysia
• Esperanza Live Webinar – Post COVID Financial Risk: Forum with Risk
and Compliance Practitioners
• Heron Talent Management Business Live Webinar Presentation to
(PERWAKIM members) – Challenges to Insurance Agents: The Next Decade
• Heron Talent Management Live Webinar – Agency Insurance Business:
Enhancing Sales
• SP&G Gallaghers Insurance Brokers Sdn Bhd – Webinar on Building A
Quality Team (BQT) Training Programme
NC
Members
No. Name Designation Membership
1 Eugene Hon Kah Weng Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman
2 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member
3 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
* appointed on 24 November 2020
Independent Non-Executive Director Member
4 Abdul Razak Bin Shakor  
* ceased as member on 24 November 2020
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Member
Roles:
• Oversee the Board appointment process including the nomination and selection of directors and key management
of Kawan.
• Recommend new directors nomination to the Board and key management of Kawan.
• Review Board training programmes.
• Assess the performance and effectiveness of individual Directors, Board and Board Committees.
• Assess and review the Board composition (ie. size, experience, diversity etc) and structure of Kawan.
NC Activities in FY2020
• Reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees as well as contribution of each
Director to the Board and Board Committees FY2020.
• Reviewed the succession planning.
• Reviewed the directors’ retirement by rotation at the sixteenth (“16th”) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company held on 19 June 2020.
• Assessed and recommended to the Board the appointment of Gan Ka Bien as Non-Independent Executive
Director of Kawan.
• Reviewed the Board Composition of Kawan.
• Recommended the appointment and changes of Board Committee members for the Board’s approval.
• Assessed and recommended to the Board the appointment of GCEO and Financial Controller of Kawan.
• Assessed directors’ needs for training.
• Reviewed and recommended the revised organisation chart for the Board’s approval.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
61
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Board Composition and Diversity
As at 31 December 2020, the Board comprises nine (9) Directors (including the appointment of an additional one
(1) Executive Director and retirement of one (1) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) : one (1) Group Executive
Chairman, four (3) Executive Directors, one (1) Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, two (2) Independent Non-
Executive Directors and one (2) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. Of the nine (9) Directors, two (2) were women.
Details of the Directors can be found on pages 45 to 52 of this annual report.
The Board composition complied with paragraph 15.02 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires at least two
(2) directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board of Company, whichever is the higher, are independent.
The NC reviewed the Board and Board Committee composition in FY2020 on an annual basis. On 24 November 2020,
Gan Ka Bien was appointed on board which increased the gender diversity in Kawan from 10% in FY2019 to 22% in
FY2020. The composition of the Board comprises an appropriate balance of representation from relevant key areas that
supports the sustainability efforts in the business taking into consideration the complexity and nature of the Group’s
businesses.
Changes to Composition of Board and Board Committees
Throughout the year, there are several changes to the Board and Board Committees composition as follows:
• Resignation of Timothy Tan Heng Han as GMD on 1 January 2021.
• Appointment of Gan Ka Bien as Director of Kawan on 24 November 2020.
• Appointment of Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim as a member of NC on 24 November 2020.
• Abdul Razak Bin Shakor ceased as a member of NC on 24 November 2020.
• Retirement on Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha as Director at the 16th AGM.
Board Evaluation and Independence
The Board through its NC also undertakes an annual review of performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board
Committees as well as the contribution of each individual Directors to the Board and Board Committees.
The Board Evaluation Report indicated that the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors continue to be highly
effective in providing oversight of the Company and its governance.
Following the FY2020 Board evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) are independent
to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
RC
Members
No. Name Designation Membership
1 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman
2 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim Independent Non-Executive Director Member
3 Eugene Hon Kah Weng Independent Non-Executive Director Member
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
62
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (continued)
Roles:
• Assess, review and recommend to the Board the remuneration packages of Directors, GCEO and Key Senior
Management.
• Review and approve performance measures for incentive plans recommended by Management.
• Assess the performance and recommend to the Board for approval the total remuneration packages of GCEO,
EDs, NEDs and Key Senior Management.
Remuneration packages
The remuneration packages for the EDs and Key Senior Management comprises basic salary, benefits in kind, bonus
and allowances which reflects their roles and performance for the year. The NED’s remuneration package comprises
directors’ fees, benefits in kind and meeting allowances which reflect individual’s role and responsibilities. The Board
remuneration is reviewed by benchmarking against peer companies.
The Chairman of the AC, RC and NC receives higher fees in respect of his service as a chairman of the respective
committee. The Directors will receive an additional fee if they are members of the Board Committee. The fees for
Directors are determined by the Board with approval from shareholders at AGM.
The interested Directors abstained from deliberation and voting on their own remuneration at the Board meetings.
RC activities in FY2020:
• Reviewed Company bonus payment and salary increment.
• Reviewed and recommended the remuneration of EDs and NEDs to the Board for approval.
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board the remuneration package of GMD.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
AC
Independent Non-
Executive Directors
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
The AC of the Company comprises one (1) Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and two (2) Independent
Non-Executive Director Collectively, the AC members are financially literate, possess commercial expertise skills and
experience to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities pursuant to the AC’s TOR.
The TOR of the AC requires a former key audit partner to observe a cooling-off period of at least two (2) years before
being appointed as a member of the AC.
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities on financial reporting, compliance with
applicable financial reporting standards and other legal requirements, internal audit, external audit functions and risk
management of the Group.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
63
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONtinued)
AC (continued)
On an annual basis, the AC reviews and evaluates the suitability, objectivity and independence of the external auditors
taking into consideration the following:
• Technical competencies
• Independence and objectivity
• Audit scope and planning
• Adequacy of technical support
• Time commitment
• Audit and non-audit fees
The details on the roles of the AC are set out on AC report on pages 65 to 67 of the annual report.
Sound Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in maintaining an effective risk management and internal control
system to safeguard stakeholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. The AC assists the Board in the oversight of
proper implementation of risk management and control system.
The Group has established a robust risk management framework as an approach to identify, assess, report and monitor
risks facing the Group. Kawan maintains a risk register comprises Group wide risks specific to the business activities
was reviewed and updated every quarter.
The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to a professional service firm which is independent of the activities
and operations of the Group. The outsourced internal auditors reports directly to the AC. The Internal Audit function is
primarily responsible in assessing and improving the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control systems
and governance processes within the Group.
The statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out on pages 69 to 79 of this Annual Report provides a
detailed description of the state of risk management and internal controls.
Principle C: Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with
Stakeholders
Communications with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of effective communication between the Company, investors, shareholders,
stakeholders and public at large to provide timely, accurate, and equal access to material information on the Group’s
performance and operations.
Kawan engages with its stakeholders by way of announcements via Bursa Securities and press releases. All financial
results, notice of dividend and ad-hoc announcements are available on the Bursa Securities’ website. Investor relation
section which is available on the Company’s corporate website at www.kawanfood.com contains information on Kawan
such as corporate profile, annual reports, Board of Directors, AGM etc for both existing and potential shareholders.
The stakeholders can reach out to Kawan should they require further information or assistance.
Kawan also organised meetings with analysts, institutional fund managers, shareholders and potential investors. Our
discussion generally involves financial and business performance, outlook and strategic direction of the Group.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
64
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Principle C: Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with
Stakeholders (continued)
General Meetings
Kawan 16th AGM is the first AGM conducted through live streaming and online remote participation by using Remote
Participation and Voting Facilities (“RPV”) due to COVID-19 movement restriction order, which is in compliance with
Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016. The virtual AGM provides an avenue for the shareholders to seek clarification
and insights into the operations and financial performance of the Group. The Chairman took the chair of the AGM and
the GMD gave a presentation to the shareholders covering the Group’s business and financial highlights for FY2019
and market outlook.
During the Question-and-Answer session of the AGM, its shareholders were invited to post their questions to the
Board. The Chairman, AC Chairman, GMD and Management were present at the meetings to answer shareholders’
queries and concerns. Company’s external auditors and the Company Secretary participated remotely at the meeting.
The notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions together with the Annual Report was sent to shareholders at least
twenty-one (21) days before the date of the meeting to enable shareholders to go through the Annual Report and papers
supporting the resolutions proposed, which is in line with Section 316(2) of Companies Act 2016 and paragraph 7.15
of MMLR of Bursa Securities. Notice of AGM was circulated in a nationally circulated newspaper together with an
announcement on the Bursa Securities’ website. This allowed shareholders to have immediate access to the notice of
AGM and made necessary preparations for the AGM.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 15 April 2021.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
65
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Audit
Committee Report
COMPOSITION
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors (“INED”):
No. Name Designation Membership
1 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim* Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman
2 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member
3 Eugene Hon Kah Weng* Independent Non-Executive Director Member
*  Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA).
All of the INED satisfy the test of independence under the Main Market Listing Requirement (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
The AC also meets the MMLR which requires that at least one member of the AC must fulfil the financial expertise
requisite of paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of Bursa Securities MMLR. The AC Chairman and a member of AC are members of
the MIA and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants (MICPA).
Further details of the AC members’ experience and qualification are disclosed in Directors’ profiles available on pages
45 to 52 of the Annual Report.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The role, scope and responsibilities of the AC are set out in its terms of reference which is published on the Company’s
website at www.kawanfood.com.
MEETINGS
The AC held a total of five (5) meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”) and the details
of meeting attendance are as follows:
Name No. of Meetings Attended
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 5/5
Dr Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud 5/5
Eugene Hon Kah Weng 5/5
The Group Managing Director (“GMD”), Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”), Company Secretaries, Financial
Controller, Group Accountant, Corporate Affairs Manager and other Management were invited to attend the meetings
to present their reports and updates on key areas of the business as appropriate. The internal auditors and external
auditors also attended all the AC meetings upon invitation to provide updates and developments on issues arising from
the audit reports. The AC Chairman thereafter reported the AC’s recommendations to the Board for their consideration.
He also updated the Board on significant matters discussed during the AC meetings.
Discussions and deliberation at the AC meetings are recorded in the minutes of the AC meetings. Minutes of the AC
meetings were provided to members of the Board.
66
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN FY2020
Financial Reporting
• Reviewed quarterly unaudited financial results and the draft announcements before recommending them for
Board’s approval;
• Reviewed the audited financial statements of the Group to ensure that the financial statements were prepared
in compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard (MFRS) prior to the approval by the Board; and
• Considered the implications of COVID-19 on the financial statements. The AC also reviewed the appropriateness
of estimates and judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements.
External Audit
• Reviewed and approved the external auditors’ audit plan including the audit approach, scope, and risk assessments
of external auditors;
• Had two (2) meetings with the external auditors without the presence of the GMD, GCEO and Management to
discuss relevant issues and concerns arising from the audit;
• Reviewed the appointment of external auditors, taking into consideration their competencies, commitments,
independence and objectivity prior to recommending their reappointment to the Board for approval; and
• Reviewed and recommended for Board’s approval the provision of non-audit services and respective fees by
the external auditors.
Internal Audit (“IA”)
• Reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan for FY2020 and assessed the adequacy of resources as
well as skills and competencies of the internal auditors to ensure the internal auditors (“IA”) carry out its function
effectively;
• Reviewed the internal control issues identified by IA management responses to audit recommendations and
implementation of the action plans;
• Monitored the status of outstanding audit findings on a quarterly basis and deliberated on the timelines to ensure
prompt resolution of the findings;
• Met with internal auditor without the presence of GMD, GCEO and Management to discuss relevant issues and
concerns arising from the audits; and
• Evaluated the independence, efficiency and effectiveness of the internal auditors.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Monitored and reviewed, on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management
systems; and
• Reviewed and deliberated the updated risk management reports of the Group on principal risks and key findings.
Audit Committee Report
(cont’d)
67
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN FY2020 (continued)
Related Party Transactions (RPTs)
• Reviewed and deliberated on RPTs, recurring RPTs and potential conflict of interest that may arise;
• Reviewed all RPTs on quarterly basis to ensure RPTs were carried out on an arm’s length basis and were in the
best interest of the Company; and
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval, the Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of revenue or trading nature.
Other Matters
• Deliberated with project manager in charge of Industry 4.0 projects on automation and digitalisation initiatives;
• Continue to monitor the progress of Enterprise Resource Planning system implementation;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval on the Anti Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and its
procedures in the Group;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval on the revised Code of Conduct and Ethics, Board Charter
and Whistleblowing Policy across the Group;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval, the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, AC
Report, Management Discussion and Analysis, Sustainability Statement and Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control for the inclusion in Annual Report FY2020; and
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval, the Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group IA function of Kawan is outsourced to Tricor Axcelasia Sdn Bhd (f.k.a Axcelasia Columbus Sdn Bhd) to
provide independent and objective assurance on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of internal controls.
The internal audit engagement is currently headed by Mr. Joe Lee Yaw Joo (“Mr. Joe”) who has 20 years of experience
in external and internal audit advisory, risk management, governance, financial management, business process
enhancement, transformation and cost savings services. Mr. Joe is a Certified Internal Auditor (USA) and holds a
certification in Supply Management (USA). He is also a Chartered Accountant, Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountant and a member of MICPA. The internal audit engagements were carried out by four (4) to five (5) staff. The
staff who performed the IA reviews have professional qualifications and/or university degree. Some are members of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. They are free from any relationships or conflict of interest, which could impair
their objectivity and independence.
During the FY2020, the internal auditor carried out its duties based on the audit plan approved by the AC covering health,
safety and environment, maintenance management, quality control management, halal certification management, supply
chain management policies & procedures reviews, credit control and collection, strategic planning and strategy annual
planning framework. The internal audit engagements were carried out using a risk-based approach and guidance from
the International Professional Practice Framework. The IA findings in the internal audit reports were reviewed by the AC.
The total costs incurred for outsourcing the internal audit function of Kawan for the FY2020 was RM105,000.
Further details of the IA functions are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 69
to 79 of this Annual Report.
Audit Committee Report
(cont’d)
68
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major
shareholders’ interest which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year ended or which were entered into
since the end of the previous financial year (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) except
as disclosed below and in Notes 35 to the financial statements under “Related Parties” on pages 153 to 154 of this
Annual Report.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the
Company and the Group to the external auditors are as follows:
Group
(RM)
Company
(RM)
Audit services rendered 275,506 48,000
Non-audit services rendered 7,000 7,000
Total 282,506 55,000
Utilisation of Proceeds
There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31
December 2020.
Recurrent Related Party Transactions of Revenue Or Trading Nature
At the Sixteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on Friday, 19 June 2020, the Company obtained a shareholders’
mandate to allow the Group to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature. The
disclosure of the recurrent related party transactions conducted during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 is
set out on page 153 of the Annual Report.
Additional
Compliance Information
Pursuant to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
69
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“The Board”) is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of
Kawan Food Berhad (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) which outlines the nature and scope of its risk
management and internal control of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. This statement has been
prepared pursuant to paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements and
by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers and Malaysian
Code of Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in establishing and maintaining an effective risk management
and internal control systems. Hence, the Board has put in place an ongoing process for reviewing its adequacy and
integrity in order to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets.
As there are inherent limitations in any risk management and internal control systems, the systems are designed to
manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve its objectives and strategies. Therefore, the risk management and
internal control systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group’s risk management and internal control systems do not apply to jointly controlled companies as the Group
does not exercise management control over these entities. However, the Group’s interest in these entities are served
through representation on the jointly controlled companies on the Board.
KEY FEATURES OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
1. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has established a structured risk management framework to identify, measure, control, report and
monitor key risks faced by the Group. The Group adopts the three lines of defence in managing its risk:
			
First line of defence
Second line of defence
Third line of defence
Day-to-day Risk Management
Internal control system put in place by management which
includes controls in relation to day-to-day business together
with supervisory procedures necessary to ensure compliance.
Internal Risk Management Working Committee (“RMWC”)
Monitoring by internal RMWC within the risk management
framework with oversight by the Audit Committee (“AC”).
Internal and External Audit
Internal and external food auditors provide assurance to the
AC and Board that internal controls are operating effectively.
The AC is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk
management and internal controls based on the information
and assurance provided to it.
70
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Senior Head of
Management
Departments
Line
Management
Manages day to day risks in
business activities.
They are required to identify,
assess, control, mitigate and
monitor risks associated with the
functional
units, business and entities.
FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE
Internal and External
Food Audit
An independent internal auditor
reports directly to the AC.
Provides independent
assessment, review and
assurance to the AC and Board
on the effectiveness of the risk
management framework.
This assurance will cover how
effectively the organisation
assesses and manages its risks
including assurance on the
effectiveness of the first and
second lines of defence.
RMWC
Monitors and facilitates the
implementation of effective risk
management practices within
Group.
1. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Risk Culture
The risk culture is driven from the top and strengthened by the middle Management which serves as the foundation
upon which a robust risk management framework is built.
Risk management are continuously communicated and reinforced throughout the Group to cultivate identification,
assessment and mitigation of risks. The Group has instilled a culture where the Board, Management and the
employees of the Group are committed to strengthening processes and controls in managing business activities.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
71
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Risk Governance Structure
The internal parties involved in the risk management process comprise the following:
The roles and responsibilities of the various parties are as follows:
BOARD
The Board is responsible for reviewing the Group’s risk management system. The Board sets the tone and culture
towards an effective risk management system by identifying and monitoring material risks, setting risk appetites
and determining risk of the Group.
The Board delegates its roles and responsibilities to the AC through the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC.
The TOR of the AC is available in the Group’s website.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
Production
RMU1
BOARD
Finance
RMU2
Export
Sales
RMU3
Engineering &
Warehouse
RMU6
Human
Resources
RMU5
Domestic
Sales
RMU4
Quality Control
& Assurance
RMU7
AC
Food
Service
RMU8
Marketing
RMU9
Corporate
Affairs
RMU11
Purchasing
RMU12
IT
RMU13
Risk Ofﬁcer RMWC
Line Management
Day-to-day risk management
Research &
Development
RMU10
72
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
AC
Under the delegation of powers and responsibilities from the Board, the AC monitors the Group’s risk management
system and oversees the effectiveness of the processes. The AC plays a pivotal role in providing oversight of
the risk management undertaken by the Group.
The AC meets quarterly with the Risk Officer who provides the AC with Group’s risk management reports on the
Risk Management Working Committee (“RMWC”) findings on key risks, mitigating controls together with updates
on progress of the status of risk management in the Group.
The AC monitors the processes, reviews the risk reports and summaries of key matters to the Board every quarter.
In discharging its duties, the AC is assisted by RMWC.
RMWC
The RMWC comprises heads of departments and is chaired by the Group Managing Director. The RMWC reports
directly to the AC.
The roles of RMWC include: -
• Implement the Board’s approved framework, policies and procedures on risk management and internal
control;
• Identify, evaluate, monitor and report risk relevant to the business; and
• Identify changes to risks or emerging risks, take actions as appropriate, and raise these to the attention of
the Board.
The RMWC maintains a risk register which set out the description, causes, impact, risk level, existing controls
and action plan of the material risks faced by each department and the Group as a whole. The risks are prioritised
in accordance with the risks level in terms of likelihood and impact based on the risk management policy.
The risk register is then used to facilitate the identification and assessment of material risks in each department
and the Group as well as to ensure that there are appropriate controls in place. Please refer to summary of the
Group’s material risks in Table 1.0 below.
The RMWC meet on a quarterly basis to review the effectiveness of the current risk management processes
and deliberate on the risk assessments. The risk profile and the progress of action plans taken to mitigate such
risks are updated during the RMWC’s meetings. The RMWC also raises issues of concerns as well as monitors
the progress and status of risk management activities.  The RMWC continues to seek improvements in the risk
management by sharing information and best practices among the committee members.
The appointed Risk Officer will then present the risk management report highlighting key risks to the AC and
alerted risk related matters which requires AC’s attention and guidance.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
73
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1. RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Risk Management Unit (“RMU”)
The RMU is established at departmental level. Each of the RMU performs risk assessments to identify, evaluate
and manage the identified risks. The respective heads are responsible to assess changes to the level of risk,
emerging risks and thus, take appropriate actions to manage such risks.
LINE MANAGEMENT
The managers assist risk owners in identifying, measuring, controlling, monitoring and reporting all relevant
material risks associated within their respective department.
Risk Assessment Process
The Group’s Risk Assessment Framework are set out as follows:
Risk identification
• Understand the key processes in business activities to identify various risk.
• Identify emerging risks or any changes that affect the existing risks faced by each department and the
Group as a whole.
Risk analysis
• Determine the causes, likelihood of occurrence and impact of these risks.
• The likelihood and impact of these risks are assessed using risk matrix.
Risk evaluation & response
• Determine the significance of these risks and evaluate the risk level – High, Significant, Moderate and
Low.
• Implement appropriate controls/action plans to mitigate and minimise risk exposures.
Risk monitoring and review
• Continuously monitor the identified risks and the effectiveness of risk controls in place.
• Follow up and deliberate mitigations to minimise risk exposure at the RMWC meetings.
• Present quarterly risk reports to AC and Board.
• Highlight changes or movements in the risk levels.
Managing risks within the Group involves an on-going assessment process to identify, evaluate and manage
existing risks as well as new risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place for the year under review
and up to the date of approval of this statement.
During FY2020, the RMWC met on a quarterly basis to deliberate on the risk assessments. The risk register is
continuously reviewed and updated every quarter. The appointed Risk Officer then provides the AC with the
Group Risk Management Reports at its scheduled meetings.
The AC deliberated on the material risks identified on a quarterly basis and the AC Chairman subsequently
updated the Board on the proceedings and updates from RMWC.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
74
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2. MATERIAL RISKS
Table 1.0 presents a summary of the Group’s material risks and the mitigating measures for the FY2020.
Table 1.0
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION
Regulatory and
Standard
• The Group is subject to various
legislations and standards
• Failure to meet statutory requirements,
Halal, British Retail Consortium (“BRC”),
MOH MS1480 HACCP certification
and Occupational Safety and Health
Administration could have an adverse
impact on the Group’s business and
reputation
• Regular internal auditing by Food Safety
Committee and Halal Committee
• Constant monitoring and updating
committee members on the latest
updates and development on respective
regulations and standards/certifications
• Monitoring suppliers’ performance to
ensure compliances on a regular basis
• Training for committee members
People • The success and future growth of
the Group depends on the ability of
attracting and retaining competent
employees with the right talents and
attitudes
• Failure to attract and retain employees
in meeting future business needs could
have a material adverse effect on our
business
• Enhancing the career development plan
to identify competency requirements
across the Group and equip employees
with necessary skills via trainings
• Participated in Social Security
Organisation (SOCSO)’s online job fair
and Government’s Penjana Program as
our commitment to nurture talent
Information
Technology
and Cyber Risk
• The Group may be exposed to cyber
threats risk of an authorised access,
malware, security breach, viruses and
loss of information
• Potential loss of confidential information,
arising from cyber security threats
• Implementation of password protected
logon procedures
• Installation of firewall protection and
anti-virus software in all systems and
endpoints
• Regular maintenance of the systems was
carried out
• Back up data storage in secure off-site
premises
• Managing and monitoring accessibility
to the systems
• Monitoring software licenses in
compliance with regulatory requirements
Key Customer
Relationship
• Our key customer contributed more
than 10% of our sales
• Loss of this key customer could result
in material impact to the Group’s results
• Continue to reaching out to a wider range
of customers and further expansion of
domestic and international markets
Product Quality • Failure to maintain consistency in
product quality may affect our earnings,
business operations, brand and
reputation
• Strict adherence to the Group’s operation
management system
• Conduct Group’s training programs
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
75
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2. MATERIAL RISKS (Continued)
Table 1.0 presents a summary of the Group’s material risks and the mitigating measures for the FY2020. (continued)
Table 1.0 (continued)
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION
Sabotage/
Malicious
Actions
• Large volume and range of products
vulnerable to risk of adulteration such
as intentionally damaging the machines,
deliberate tampering of products,
integrity issues and breach of trust
• This could have a material reputational
and financial impact to our Group
• Grievance Policy in place
• Whistleblowing Policy including
disciplinary action against committing
improprieties and illegal acts and
protection to whistleblower
• Communicate with our employees on
the consequences and impose penalties
when necessary
• Installation of CCTV in storage and
critical production areas
Operational
Costs
• Our Group’s profit margin could be
affected by higher operational costs
such as raw material costs, labour costs
etc
• Our inability to pass the costs to our
customers would affect our business
• Continuous improvement on efficient
process flows and cost reduction
• Improvement initiatives such as
digitalisation 4.0 being undertaken to
ensure operational efficiencies and
effectiveness
Health and
Safety
• Co2, ammonia gas and chemical
substances are used in our cooling and
refrigeration system. Our employees
are potentially exposed to leakage of
the gas(es) and chemical substances
from the system which may have
impact on employee’s health and lead to
reputational damage, loss of customer
confidence, civil litigation and cost
increase
• Comprehensive safety and health
policies and procedures have been
developedandsupplementedbyplanned
preventive and routine maintenance
• Installation of twenty-four (24) hours real
time monitoring via Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems
Machinery
Breakdown
• The Group is at risk of disruption to
its daily business operations from
breakdown of machineries
• Risk of machinery breakdown may have
an adverse effect on productivity
• Strict adherence to the scheduled
preventive and routine maintenance of
machineries
• Maintaining safe stock level for critical
parts
• Conduct root cause analysis on the
machinery breakdown
• Continuous training on preventing
machinery breakdown
Bribery and
Corruption
• The corporate liability provision under
Section 17A of the MACC Act 2009
came into force on 1st June 2020
• The Company may be held liable for
acts of corruption by its directors,
employees or other associated persons
• Established an Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC”) and
procedures in order to mitigate bribery
and corruption risks
• Whistleblowing policy has been put in
place Awareness and communication
to employees and stakeholders
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
76
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2. MATERIAL RISKS (Continued)
Table 1.0 presents a summary of the Group’s material risks and the mitigating measures for the FY2020. (continued)
Table 1.0 (continued)
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION
Pandemic • In early 2020, a significant threat to
public health emerged. COVID-19 may
cause serious respiratory illness and
death. As at 16th December 2020, World
Health Organization (WHO) confirmed a
global death toll of 1,630,521 due to
COVID-19 pandemic
• The spreading of COVID-19 locally
and internationally may affect the
Group’s operations and the safety of
our employees
• The Company has business continuity
strategies and practices in place. To
strengthen this area, a formal business
continuity plan policy and procedure is
being established
• Continuous close monitoring the impact
of COVID-19 on financial position and
operations of the Group
• Strict adherence to the enhanced
internal standard operating procedures
that provide guidance to our employees
on disease prevention measures and
work safety arrangements
Unsustainable
Palm Oil
• RSPO is a non-profit international
membership organisation that promotes
the growth and use of sustainable palm
oil through credible global standards
• Consumers from western countries
such as UK and US are calling for RSPO
certified products in order to protect
forestry and environment. Currently,
the Group are utilising palm oil based
as margarine raw material
• Initiates RSPO certification and non-
palm based raw materials such as
soya based in order to meet the global
standard while striving to meet changing
consumer demand
3. INTERNAL AUDIT
Internal Audit function of the Group was carried out by an outsourced professional consulting firm. The Group’s
Internal Audit function (“GIA”) reports independently to the AC. The principal responsibility of GIA is to provide
independent review on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of risk management, control and governance.
The selection of the areas to be audited is based on an annual audit plan that is approved by the AC. The annual
audit plan is developed based on risk assessments of Kawan Group.
For the financial year 31 December 2020, the GIA have conducted reviews which involved assessing the adequacy
of controls over the following:
- Health, safety and environment;
- Maintenance management;
- Quality control management;
- Halal certification management;
- Supply chain management policies & procedures reviews;
- Strategic planning;
- Strategy annual planning framework; and
- Credit control and collection.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
77
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. INTERNAL AUDIT (continued)
Upon completion of the audit assignment, the GIA provides an audit report which covers the scope of audit work
performed, evaluation of the internal control systems with detailed audit observations, management responses
and timeline to implement the GIA’s recommendation. The audit report was presented to the AC and deliberated
together with the Management during its quarterly meetings. The AC assessed the overall adequacy and
effectiveness of the internal control systems and reports the deliberations and material findings to the Board of
Directors.
4. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key features of the Group’s internal control system are as follows:
• The AC and Board
To assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated its authority in overseeing the
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems to
the AC. The AC held five (5) meetings during the financial year to monitor and review the adequacy and
effectiveness of the internal control system.
The internal control system covers material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls.
In addition, the AC and Board are kept updated on the Group’s activities and its operations.
• Organisation Structure & Authorisation Procedures
The Group has a formal organisation structure with clearly defined accountabilities, reporting lines and
authority in order to align to its business and operational needs. These include setting matters specifically
requiring Board’s approval and matters delegated to the management. The delegation of authorities is duly
approved by the Board and subject to review and update to reflect business and operational changes and
needs.
• Annual Budget and Financial Projections
The Group’s annual budget is deliberated and approved by the Board on an annual basis. The Group’s
actual performances on a quarterly basis is then monitored against the approved budget with explanations
of major variances and presented to the Board. The Group’s actual performance versus budget for the year
are reviewed by the Board on a half yearly basis.
• Group Policies and Procedures
The Group has put in place documented policies and procedures which covers a wide range of areas
including food safety, security, product quality assurance, human resource and purchasing to provide
guidance for the employees. These policies are subject to review as and when required to ensure its
relevance to the Group’s operations and continue to support the Group’s business activities as it continues
to grow.
• Human Resource Policy
Comprehensive guidelines on employment are in place to ensure that the Group has a team of employees
who are well trained and equipped with the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to carry out their
responsibilities effectively. In addition, the Group has set up a performance management system to assess
employees’ performance and to identify and assess talent for career development.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
78
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
4. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (continued)
• Whistleblowing Policy
The Group has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”) which provides employees with accessible
channels to raise concerns or disclose information regarding suspected or known malpractices, misconducts
or wrongdoings within the Group without fear of any form of victimisation, harassment, retribution or
retaliation.
In mid-2020, the Board approved the revised WBP. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has
oversight over the access to the whistleblowing cases and the whistleblowing processes. The WBP is
available on the Group’s website.
• Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
The Group has taken steps to establish an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to set
out principles and clear procedures for all donations, sponsorships, hospitality and gifting activities of the
Group. The ABC Policy also provide guidance to all employees on how to deal with improper solicitation,
bribery and other corrupt activities.
This policy applies to all stakeholders and employees of Kawan and the Group. All employees are required
to declare that they have read, understood and will abide by the policy. In order to raise awareness on
corporate liability, Kawan conducted training and briefing sessions on corporate liability to Directors and
Management of Kawan.
• Information and Communication
Effective communication of critical information to the achievement of the Group’s business objectives
through clear reporting lines are established across the Group. This is to ensure that matters that require
the Board and senior management’s attention are highlighted for review, deliberation and decision on a
timely basis.
• Monitoring and Review
Management has set up the Operations Committee that meet regularly to discuss operational and other
pertinent issues. Monthly management reports comprising key financial results and operational performance
are reviewed and monitored by the management team. Quarterly financial statements are presented to the
Board for their review, consideration and approval.
• External Certif﻿ications
The Group continues to adopt relevant safety, quality, HALAL and Occupational Health and Safety
Assessment Series certification systems.
All of our manufacturing sites are subject to independent third-party audits under British Retail Consortium
Global Standard for Food Safety.
The Company has been awarded MS1480: 2019 HACCP food safety certification that grants the Group
health certificate for our exports without the need for product testing.
In addition, Malaysian Islamic Development Department (JAKIM) and Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS)
have added Kawan Food to their HALAL “White List” in FY2017 and FY2018 respectively for HALAL fast
track application which allows JAKIM and JAIS to expedite the issuance of HALAL certificate within three (3)
working days. However, the Group will be subject to ad-hoc audits from time to time to ensure compliance
with the systems.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
79
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirement, the External
Auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the FY2020 Annual
Report. Their review was performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide 3: Guidance for Auditors
on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control included in the Annual Report
issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. Based on their review, nothing has come to their attention that causes
them to believe that this statement is not prepared, in all material respect, in accordance with the disclosures required
by paragraph 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Directors of Listed Issuers to be
set out, or is factually inaccurate.
CONCLUSION
The Chief Executive Officer and Financial Controller have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively, in all material aspects.
The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in the Group’s annual report.
Nevertheless, the Board shall continue to take the appropriate and necessary measures to continuously improve the
Group’s risk management and internal control system to meet the Group’s corporate objectives.
This statement was approved by the Board on 15 April 2021.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
80
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STATEMENT ON
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad to issue a statement explaining the Board’s responsibility in preparing the annual financial statements.
In preparing the annual financial statements of the Company and the Group, the Directors are collectively responsible
to ensure that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions
of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”) so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of
the Company at the end of the financial year and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended on that date.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020, the Directors have:
i) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
iii) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
iv) ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departure and explained
in the financial statements.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 15 April 2021.
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report 82
Statements of Financial Position 88
Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income 90
Statements of Changes in Equity 92
Statements of Cash Flows 94
Notes to the Financial Statements 97
Statement by Directors 157
Statutory Declaration 157
Independent Auditors’ Report 158
82
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries
are as stated in Note 9 to the financial statements.
RESULTS
				
Group Company
				RM RM
Profit for the financial year attributable to:
  Owners of the Company 28,017,858 9,657,658
  Non-controlling interests (365,338) –
27,652,520 9,657,658
In the opinion of the directors, the financial results of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not
been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDEND
The amount of dividend paid by the Company since the end of previous financial year were as follows:
In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Company declared and paid an interim single tier dividend
of 2.5 sen per ordinary share totalling RM8,987,995 on 30 March 2020.
The directors do not recommend any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed
in the financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart from
the issue of options pursuant to the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment
of the ESOS of not more than 15% of the issued share capital of the Company to eligible employees of the Group and
of the Company.
83
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES (continued)
The salient features of the ESOS are, inter alia, as follows:
(i) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years commencing from the effective date on or before the
expiry thereof, the Board of Directors shall have the sole and absolute discretion upon recommendation of the
ESOS Committee, without the Company’s shareholders’ approval in a general meeting, to extend in writing the
tenure of the ESOS for another five (5) years, or such shorter period as it deems fit immediately from the expiry of
the first five (5) years, the ESOS shall not in aggregate exceed ten (10) years from the effective date of 2 October
2018 or such longer period as may be allowed by the relevant authorities;
(ii) As the date of offer, an employee who fulfils the following conditions shall be eligible to participate in the ESOS:
(a) has attained eighteen (18) years of age;
(b) is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to any bankruptcy proceedings;
(c) must have been confirmed in service and have served at least six (6) months in the employment of the
Group and of the Company;
(d) the employee is under an employment contract, which the contract is for a duration of at least one (1) year
and shall have not expired within three (3) months from the date of offer; and
(e) has fulfilled any other criteria as may be imposed by the ESOS Committee from time to time.
(iii) The exercise price shall be determined by ESOS Committee and shall be based on the five (5)-day Volume
Weighted Average Market Price (“VWAMP”) of Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of offer, with
a discount, if any, the such discount shall not be more than ten percent (10%);
(iv) The shares issued and allocated pursuant to the exercise of the options shall, upon issuance and allotment rank
pari passu in all respects with the then existing shares and be entitled to all rights (including voting, dividend,
allotment, distribution, transfer and other rights, as well as those arising on a liquidation of the Company) attaching
to the then existing shares, save and except that new shares so issued and allocated will not be entitled to any
dividends, rights, allotments or other forms of distribution which may be declared, made or paid, for which
entitlement date is prior to the date allotment of such new shares; and
(v) The eligible employees shall be entitled to exercise such number of the vested options within the option period
and they shall have no right to exercise all or any of the options that have been granted but not vested to them.
The options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares is as follows:
Number of options over ordinary shares
Date of offer Expiry date At 1.1.2020 Granted At 31.12.2020
28.8.2020 20.10.2021 – 5,004,000 5,004,000
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
84
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The directors of the Company who held office during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Dr. Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud
Eugene Hon Kah Weng
Gan Ka Bien (Appointed on 24 November 2020)
Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha (Retired on 19 June 2020)
Timothy Tan Heng Han (Resigned on 1 January 2021)
DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of directors of the subsidiaries during the
financial year and up to the date of this report are:
Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lau Wing Hon
Jean-Marc, Michel Lhermite
Toshiro Nakazawa
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the
Company and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 as recorded in the Register
of Directors’ Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		At			At
		 1.1.2020 Acquired (Disposed) 31.12.2020
THE Company
Direct interest
Gan Thiam Chai 87,724,248 140,900 – 87,865,148
Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 – – 22,462,133
Timothy Tan Heng Han 135,000 – – 135,000
Kwan Sok Kay 16,544,972 1,179,433 – 17,724,405
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,460,028 177,000 – 7,637,028
Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 – – 4,013,849
Deemed interest
Gan Thiam Chai 9,464,149 – – 9,464,149
Gan Thiam Hock 1,516,300 50,000 (20,000) 1,546,300
Kwan Sok Kay 9,464,149 – – 9,464,149
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
85
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONTINUED)
By virtue of his substantial interests in the shares of the Company, Gan Thiam Chai is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
None of the other directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the
Company and of its related corporations.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than the benefits shown under directors’ remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related
corporation with a director or with a firm of which a director is a member or with a company in which the director has a
substantial financial interest, other than certain directors, and the spouse of a director and children of certain directors
who have significant financial interests in companies which traded with certain companies within the Group in the
ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 35 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling directors of
the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other
body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The directors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the directors and the
officers of the Group and of the Company are RM20,000,000 and RM37,110 respectively.
No indemnity has been given to or insurance premium paid, during or since the end of financial year, for the auditors
of the Group and of the Company.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The auditors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 24 to the financial statements.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
86
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable
steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making
of provision for doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that there were no known bad debts to be
written off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that the current assets which were unlikely to realise their values as shown in the accounting
records in the ordinary course of business had been written down to an amount which they might be
expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would require the write off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements of the Group and of the Company which
would render any amount stated in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements misleading.
(c) 		
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the directors:
(i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within
the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the
Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due; and
(ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of
the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to substantially affect the results of the operations
of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
87
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs RSM Malaysia, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI
GAN THIAM HOCK
Selangor
15 April 2021
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
88
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 December 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 6 228,498,794 225,921,490 – –
Right-of-use assets 7 17,543,343 17,698,857 – –
Investment properties 8 8,142,738 8,564,798 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 9 – – 61,255,560 61,715,360
Investment in a jointly
  controlled entity 10 – – – –
Other investments 11 – – 122,000,000 –
Deferred tax assets 12 485,558 464,856 – –
Total non-current assets 254,670,433 252,650,001 183,255,560 61,715,360
Current assets
Other investments 11 13,483,314 6,433,734 – –
Trade and other receivables 13 49,599,548 46,286,837 3,601,000 122,286,335
Inventories 14 30,239,037 23,699,572 – –
Current tax assets 1,215,121 3,694,881 1,149,083 42,237
Prepayments 1,120,281 1,493,570 30,922 22,526
Cash and cash equivalents 15 66,319,060 48,823,145 2,339,620 4,562,928
Total current assets 161,976,361 130,431,739 7,120,625 126,914,026
TOTAL ASSETS 416,646,794 383,081,740 190,376,185 188,629,386
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 16 179,759,880 179,759,880 179,759,880 179,759,880
Reserves 17 165,248,843 144,155,842 10,505,528 8,721,005
345,008,723 323,915,722 190,265,408 188,480,885
Non-controlling interests 658,595 1,023,933 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 345,667,318 324,939,655 190,265,408 188,480,885
89
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 18 5,735,628 9,358,129 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 12 9,219,539 7,384,531 – –
Total non-current liabilities 14,955,167 16,742,660 – –
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 18 9,448,927 6,398,971 – –
Trade and other payables 19 44,892,946 34,847,222 110,777 148,501
Current tax liabilities 1,682,436 153,232 – –
Total current liabilities 56,024,309 41,399,425 110,777 148,501
TOTAL LIABILITIES 70,979,476 58,142,085 110,777 148,501
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 416,646,794 383,081,740 190,376,185 188,629,386
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
90
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
REVENUE 20 254,702,961 214,086,870 12,586,995 8,134,000
COST OF SALES (153,693,190) (142,333,310) – –
GROSS PROFIT 101,009,771 71,753,560 12,586,995 8,134,000
OTHER INCOME 21 5,839,938 3,352,309 – –
SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION
 EXPENSES (46,930,588) (39,406,165) – –
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (27,593,698) (19,837,459) (2,996,879) (1,689,434)
PROFIT FROM OPERATING
 ACTVITIES 32,325,423 15,862,245 9,590,116 6,444,566
FINANCE INCOME 22 467,282 489,705 60,687 5,230,016
FINANCE COSTS 23 (777,312) (997,902) (78) (138)
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 24 32,015,393 15,354,048 9,650,725 11,674,444
TAXATION 25 (4,362,873) (3,340,331) 6,933 (1,125,368)
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL
 YEAR 27,652,520 12,013,717 9,657,658 10,549,076
91
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
 INCOME/(EXPENSE),
  NET OF TAX:
Item that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation
  differences for foreign operations 26 948,278 (750,810) – –
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE
  INCOME FOR THE
  FINANCIAL YEAR 28,600,798 11,262,907 9,657,658 10,549,076
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 28,017,858 12,189,784 9,657,658 10,549,076
Non-controlling interests (365,338) (176,067) – –
27,652,520 12,013,717 9,657,658 10,549,076
Total comprehensive income
  attributable to:
Owners of the Company 28,966,136 11,438,974 9,657,658 10,549,076
Non-controlling interests (365,338) (176,067) – –
28,600,798 11,262,907 9,657,658 10,549,076
		2020 2019
sen sen
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE:
- Basic 27 7.79 3.39
- Diluted 27 7.77 –
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
92
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
				
Share 			
Non-
		 Share Translation option Retained		 controlling Total
		 capital reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Balance as at 1.1.2019 179,759,880 8,830,490 – 132,874,373 321,464,743 – 321,464,743
Profit for the financial year – – – 12,189,784 12,189,784 (176,067) 12,013,717
Other comprehensive expense for the financial year – (750,810) – – (750,810) – (750,810)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income
  for the financial year – (750,810) – 12,189,784 11,438,974 (176,067) 11,262,907
Contribution by and distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 28 – – – (8,987,995) (8,987,995) – (8,987,995)
- non-controlling interests acquired in a
  new subsidiary – – – – – 1,200,000 1,200,000
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – – (8,987,995) (8,987,995) 1,200,000 (7,787,995)
Balance as at 31.12.2019/1.1.2020 179,759,880 8,079,680 – 136,076,162 323,915,722 1,023,933 324,939,655
Profit for the financial year – – – 28,017,858 28,017,858 (365,338) 27,652,520
Other comprehensive income for the financial year – 948,278 – – 948,278 – 948,278
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
  for the financial year – 948,278 – 28,017,858 28,966,136 (365,338) 28,600,798
Contributions by and distributions to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 28 – – – (8,987,995) (8,987,995) – (8,987,995)
- share options granted under ESOS – – 1,114,860 – 1,114,860 – 1,114,860
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – 1,114,860 (8,987,995) (7,873,135) – (7,873,135)
Balance as at 31.12.2020 179,759,880 9,027,958 1,114,860 155,106,025 345,008,723 658,595 345,667,318
93
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Non-distributable Distributable
			Share
		 Share option Retained
		 capital reserve earnings Total
Note RM RM RM RM
Company
Balance as at 1.1.2019 179,759,880 – 7,159,924 186,919,804
Profit and total comprehensive
  income for the financial year – – 10,549,076 10,549,076
Contribution by and distributions
  to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 28 – – (8,987,995) (8,987,995)
Balance as at 31.12.2019/1.1.2020 179,759,880 – 8,721,005 188,480,885
Profit and total comprehensive income
  for the financial year – – 9,657,658 9,657,658
Contribution by and distributions
  to owners
- dividend to owners of the Company 28 – – (8,987,995) (8,987,995)
- share options granted under ESOS – 1,114,860 – 1,114,860
– 1,114,860 (8,987,995) (7,873,135)
Balance as at 31.12.2020 179,759,880 1,114,860 9,390,668 190,265,408
Statements of Changes in Equity
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
94
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM
  OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before taxation 32,015,393 15,354,048 9,650,725 11,674,444
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of investment properties 8 146,355 48,049 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and
  equipment 6 16,439,901 16,405,667 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 7 280,608 347,190 – –
Property, plant and equipment
  written off 6 297,003 – – –
Dividends income – – (12,586,995) (8,134,000)
Employees’ share option scheme
  expenses 24 1,114,860 – 1,114,860 –
Finance income from intercompany 22 – – – (5,038,587)
Finance income from deposits 22 (467,282) (489,705) (60,687) (191,429)
Impairment loss on trade receivables 24 99,465 724,114 – –
Reversal of impairment loss on trade
  receivables 24 (286,192) – – –
Impairment loss on property, plant and
  equipment 6 – 474,258 – –
Provision for slow moving inventories 14 407,322 270,497 – –
Inventories written off 14 661,595 744,239 – –
Finance costs 23 574,817 825,674 – –
Gain on disposal of property, plant
  and equipment 24 (282,157) (531,993) – –
Gain on disposal of investment
  properties 24 (376,977) (993,459) – –
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial
  assets 24 201,600 (420,000) – –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange 24 1,502,843 820,610 484,631 300,168
Operating profit/(loss) before
  working capital changes 52,329,154 33,579,189 (1,397,466) (1,389,404)
Increase in inventories (7,608,382) (1,248,717) – –
(Increase)/Decrease in trade and other
  receivables, prepayments and other
  financial assets (4,232,548) 6,996,525 275,939 (7,810,677)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other
  payables 10,064,222 2,391,321 (37,724) 92,337
Cash generated from/(used in)
 operations 50,552,446 41,718,318 (1,159,251) (9,107,744)
95
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM
  OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 (CONTINUED)
Dividend received – – 8,987,995 8,134,000
Income tax paid (1,804,934) (2,669,060) (1,099,913) (1,406,391)
Income tax refund 3,261,672 2,563,722 – 49,885
Net cash generated from/(used in)
  operating activities 52,009,184 41,612,980 6,728,831 (2,330,250)
CASH FLOWS FROM
  INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of a subsidiary – – – (1,800,000)
Proceeds from disposal of property,
  plant and equipment 326,420 1,081,061 – –
Proceeds from disposal of investment
  properties 652,682 1,497,429 – –
Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment (18,275,970) (21,182,957) – –
Finance income received from
  intercompany 22 – – – 5,038,587
Finance income received from
  deposits 22 467,282 489,705 60,687 191,429
Placement in other investments (7,251,180) (3,599,889) – –
Net cash (used in)/generated from
  investing activities (24,080,766) (21,714,651) 60,687 3,430,016
CASH FLOWS FROM
  FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid to owners of the
  Company 28 (8,987,995) (8,987,995) (8,987,995) (8,987,995)
Issue of shares by a subsidiary to
  non-controlling interests – 1,200,000 – –
Repayment of loans and borrowings (8,843,206) (9,167,522) – –
Drawndown of loans and borrowings 8,158,353 8,438,337 – –
Finance costs on loans and
  borrowings 23 (574,817) (825,674) – –
Net cash used in
  financing activities (10,247,665) (9,342,854) (8,987,995) (8,987,995)
Statements of Cash Flows
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
96
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 17,680,753 10,555,475 (2,198,477) (7,888,229)
Effect of foreign exchange differences (184,838) (1,191,715) (24,831) (40,018)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  BROUGHT FORWARD 48,823,145 39,459,385 4,562,928 12,491,175
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  CARRIED FORWARD 15 66,319,060 48,823,145 2,339,620 4,562,928
NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF
  CASH FLOWS
Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
Included in net cash from operating
 activities:
Payment relating to short-term
  leases (523,762) (277,924) – –
Total cash outflows for leases (523,762) (277,924) – –
Statements of Cash Flows
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
97
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1. PRINCIPAL ACITIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries
are as stated in Note 9 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”) issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”),
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention.
The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. In addition, the directors are also required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying
the accounting policies. The areas involving such judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in
Note 5. Although these estimates and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of events
and actions, actual results could differ from those estimates.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included
in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that
control ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential
voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. The
Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority
of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affect
the investee’s return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost
less any impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
cost of investment includes transaction costs.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are change when necessary to align them with the policies
adopted by the Group.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- 31 December 2020
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
98
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(ii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition date,
which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For new acquisitions, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
(a) the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
(b) the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
(c) if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest
in the acquiree; less
(d) the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests in
the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets
at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a
loss of control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders. Any
difference between the Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any consideration
received or paid, is adjusted to or against Group reserves.
(iv) Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the
former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit arising
on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in the former
subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently,
it is accounted for as equity accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending
on the level of influence retained.
(v) Jointly-controlled entities
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
method less any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution (or included
in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale or distribution). The consolidated financial
statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the
equity-accounted joint ventures, after adjustments, if any, to align the accounting policies with those
of the Group, from the date that joint control ceases.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
99
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(v) Jointly-controlled entities (continued)
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, the
carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation
or has made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Investments in joint ventures are stated in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution.
(vi) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not
attributable directly or indirectly to the owners of the Company, are presented in the consolidated
statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from
equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group
are presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as an
allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for the year between non-controlling
interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling
interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
(vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-
group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated against the investment
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same
way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transaction
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period
are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the
end of the reporting period, except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the
functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for
differences arising on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge,
which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
100
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Foreign currency (continued)
(i) Foreign currency transaction (continued)
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or
payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign
exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a
net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are
presented in the foreign currency translation reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
The assets and liabilities of operations in functional currencies other than RM, including goodwill and
fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the
reporting period, except for goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from business combinations
before 1 January 2012 (the date when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets
and liabilities of the Group and of the Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations are
translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
the FCTR in equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant
proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When
a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the
cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as
part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation,
the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When
the Group disposes of only part of its investment in a joint venture that includes a foreign operation
while retaining joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit
or loss.
(d) Financial instruments
(i) Initial recognition and measurement
The Group and the Company recognise a financial asset or a financial liability (including derivative
instruments) in the statement of financial position when, and only when, an entity in the Group and
the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
On initial recognition, all financial assets (including intra-group loans and advances) and financial
liabilities (including intra-group payables) are measured at fair value plus transaction costs if the
financial asset or financial liability is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. For instruments
measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs are expensed to profit or loss when
incurred.
(ii) Financial assets
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, the Group or the Company classify financial assets
into two measurement categories, namely: (i) financial asset at amortised cost (“AC”) and (ii) financial
assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The classification is based on the Group’s and
the Company’s business model objective for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash
flow characteristics of the financial instruments.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
101
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Financial assets (continued)
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure financial assets, as follows:
(i) Financial assets at AC
A financial asset is measured at AC if: (a) it is held within the Group’s and the Company’s business
objective to hold the asset only to collect contractual cash flows, and (b) the contractual terms
of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest in principal outstanding.
(ii) Financial assets at FVPL
A financial asset is measured at FVPL if it is an equity investment, held for trading (including
derivative assets) or if it does not meet any of the condition specified for the AC model.
Other than financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, all other financial assets are
subject to review for impairment in accordance with Note 3(k)(i).
(iii) Financial liabilities
After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure all financial liabilities at amortised cost
using the effective interest method, except for:
Financial guarantee contracts issued, and commitments to provide loans at a below-market interest
rate given, by the Group and the Company are measured at the higher of: (a) the amount of impairment
loss determined and (b) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative of
income recognised in accordance with the principles in MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.
Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
(iv) Derecognition of financial instruments
For derecognition purposes, the Group and the Company first determine whether a financial asset
or a financial liability should be derecognised in its entirety as a single item or derecognised part-
by-part of a single item or of a group of similar items.
A financial asset, whether as a single item or as a part, is derecognised when, and only when, the
contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or when the Group and
the Company transfer the contractual rights to receive cash flows of the financial asset, including
circumstances when the Group and the Company act only as a collecting agent of the transferee, and
retain no significant risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset or no continuing involvement
in the control of the financial asset transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, it is legally extinguished, which is either
when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. A substantial
modification of the terms of an existing financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the
original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. For this purpose, the Group
and the Company consider a modification as substantial if the present value of the revised cash
flows of the modified terms discounted at the original effective interest rate is different by 10% or
more when compared with the carrying amount of the original liability.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
102
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Financial instruments (continued)
(v) Fair value measurement
The fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability is determined by reference to the quoted
market price in an active market, and in the absence of an observable market price, by a valuation
technique as described in Note 3(v).
(vi) Recognition of gains and losses
Fair value changes of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit
or loss are recognised in profit or loss when they arise.
For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost, interest income and interest
expense are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. A gain or loss is recognised
in profit or loss only when the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired, and
through the amortisation process of the instrument.
(e) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any other
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, and the
costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. The
cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying
assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs.
Costs also may include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of
foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part
of that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they
are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing
the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is
recognised net within “other income” and “administrative expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent cost
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the
component will flow to the Group, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of
the replaced component is derecognised to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of
property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
103
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of
individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful lives that is different from the
remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
each component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for
use. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it
is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Leasehold
land is amortised over the remaining lease periods ranging from 68 to 84 years. Property, plant and
equipment under construction are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives of other property, plant and equipment for the current and previous years
are as follows:
Buildings 40 to 50 years
Apartments 50 years
Motor vehicles 5 to 10 years
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 3 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 10 years
Renovation 10 years
Signage 10 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period,
and adjusted as appropriate.
(f) Leases
(i) Definition of a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an identified
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the
right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly,
and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically
distinct asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified;
• the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the
asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the
decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset
is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset is used
is predetermined, the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if either the Group has
the right to operate the asset; or the Group designed the asset in a way that predetermines
how and for what purpose it will be used.
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates
the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on the basis of their
relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of properties in which the Group is a lessee, it has
elected not to separate non-lease components and will instead account for the lease and non-lease
components as a single lease component.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
104
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Leases (continued)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement
date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount
of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement
date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove
the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less
any lease incentives received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not
paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if
that rate cannot be readily determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental borrowing
rate. Generally, the Group entities use their incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentive receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the
index or rate at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to
exercise; and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to
terminate early.
The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of
the underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which the performance or use occurs.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
(b) As a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a
finance lease or an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers
substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this
is the case, then the lease is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15 to
allocate the consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
105
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Leases (continued)
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the
end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use asset are determined on the
same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is
periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of
the lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index
or rate, if there is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change in
the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee,
or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or
termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying
amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the
right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on straight-
line basis over the lease term as part of “other income”.
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on business combinations is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. In
respect of joint venture, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment
and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill that forms
part of the carrying amount of the joint venture.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that it
may be impaired.
(h) Investment properties
(i) Investment properties carried at cost
Investment properties are properties which are owned to earn rental income or for capital appreciation
or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods
or services or for administrative purposes. These include freehold land and leasehold land which in
substance is a lease held for a currently undetermined future use. Properties that are occupied by
the Group are accounted for as owner-occupied rather than as investment properties. Investment
properties are measured at cost are accounted for similarly to property, plant and equipment.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
106
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(h) Investment properties (continued)
(i) Investment properties carried at cost (continued)
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment properties.
The cost of self-constructed investment properties includes the cost of materials and direct labour,
any other costs directly attributable to bringing the investment properties to a working condition for
their intended use and capitalised borrowing costs. Right-of-use asset held under a lease contract
that meets the definition of investment property is initially measured similarly as other right-of-use
assets.
An investment property is derecognised on disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn from use
and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the
item is derecognised.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
50 years for buildings and over the remaining lease periods of 87 years for leasehold land. Freehold
land is not depreciated.
(ii) Determination of fair value
The directors estimate the fair values of the Group’s investment properties without the involvement
of independent valuers.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could
be exchanged on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s
length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on the weighted average cost method, and includes expenditure
incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes and appropriate
share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and on hand, demand deposits, and short term, highly
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amount of cash with insignificant risk of changes
in fair value.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
107
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(k) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets
measured at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit
losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses, except for cash and bank balance. Loss allowances for trade receivables is always measured
at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company consider
reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s
historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-looking information,
where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of the asset, while 12 months expected losses are the portion of expected
credit losses that result from default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting
date. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a
provision matrix with reference to historical credit loss experiences.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in profit
or loss and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost are credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that
have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that
there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the Company
determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generated sufficient
cash flows to repay the amounts subject to write-off. However, financial assets that are written-off
could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s
procedures for recovery amounts due.
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amount of the other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets) are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any
such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible
assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount
is estimated each period at the same time.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
108
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(k) Impairment (continued)
(ii) Other assets (continued)
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets
that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows
of other assets or cash generating units. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the
purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit
from the synergies of the combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its
fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or the cash-generating unit exceeds its
estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses
recognised in respect of cash-generating units (groups of cash-generating units) and then to reduce
the carrying amount of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of cash-generating units)
on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment
losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications
that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited
to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.
(l) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
subsequently.
(i) Issue expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised as a deduction
from equity.
(ii) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(iii) Dividend distribution
Dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are declared (i.e. the dividends are appropriately
authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity). Typically, dividends are recognised as liabilities
in the period in which their distribution is approved at the Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
109
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave
and sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is
provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-
sharing plans if the Group and the Company have a present legal or constructive obligation to pay
this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated
reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Group’s contributions to the statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial
year to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment
obligations.
(n) Share-based payments
Share-based payments of the Group and the Company are equity-settled share options granted to
employees, for which an option pricing model is used to estimate the fair value at grant date. That fair value
is charged on a straight-line basis as an expense in the profit or loss over the period that the employee
becomes unconditionally entitled to the options (vesting period), with a corresponding increase in equity.
The number of such options is adjusted annually to reflect best estimates of those expected to vest (ignoring
purely market-based conditions) with consequent changes to the expense. Equity is also increased by the
proceeds receivable, as and when employees choose to exercise their options.
If the Group and the Company modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were
granted, as a minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments
granted (unless those equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition other
than a market condition) are charged to the profit or loss.
Cancellations of grants of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by
forfeiture when the vesting conditions are not satisfied) are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting,
therefore the unrecognised remaining amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
(o) Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows
at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
110
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(p) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange
for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third
parties. The Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to
customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of the assets.
The Group transfers control of goods or service at a point in time unless one of the following overtime
criteria is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group
performs;
(b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset
is created or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has
an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive
payment is established.
(iii) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental
income, over the term of the lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other
income.
(iv) Finance income
Finance income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss
except for finance income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically for
the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with accounting
policy on borrowing costs.
(q) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets,
which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or
sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or
ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use
or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure
on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
111
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(r) Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in
profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in
equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax
payable in respect of previous financial years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred
tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial
recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected
to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities
and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity,
or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or their
tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will
be realised.
(s) Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, and adjusted for own shares held.
The dilutive earnings per share of the Group has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable
to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been
issued upon full exercise of the remaining share options and convertible notes, adjusted by the number of
such shares that would have been issued at fair value.
(t) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any
of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Managing Director of the Group, to make decisions
about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete
financial information is available.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
112
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(u) Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be
estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is disclosed as
a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations,
whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events,
are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
(v) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer
the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most
advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to
generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable market
data as far as possible. Fair value are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group and
the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group and the Company recognise transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date
of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS
4.1 MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted
For the preparation of the financial statements, the following accounting standards and amendments of
the MFRS framework issued by the MASB are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning
on or after 1 January 2020:
• Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards
• Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combination – Definition of a Business
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements and MFRS 108 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – Definition of Material
• Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments, MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
During the financial year, the Group and the Company have early adopted the Amendment to MFRS 16
Leases – Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions.
The adoption of the above-mentioned accounting standards and amendments have no significant impact
on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
113
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS (Continued)
4.2 New/Revised MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs not adopted
The following are accounting standards and amendments of the MFRS framework that have been issued
by the MASB but have not been adopted by the Group and the Company:
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2021
• Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments, MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement, MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure, MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and MFRS
16 Leases – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2021
• Amendment to MFRS 16 Leases – Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
• Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations – Reference to the Conceptual Framework
• Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment − Proceeds before Intended Use
• Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets – Onerous
Contracts−Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
• Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Classification of Liabilities as
Current or Non-current
• Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure of Accounting Policies
• Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors –
Definition of Accounting Estimates
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs effective date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investment in Associates
and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint
Venture
The directors anticipate that the above-mentioned accounting standards and amendments will be adopted
by the Group and the Company when they become effective.
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts have not been taken
into consideration because they are not applicable to the Group and the Company.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
114
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
In preparing its financial statements, the Group and the Company have made significant judgements, estimates
and assumptions that impact on the carrying value of certain assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well
as other information reported in the notes. The Group and the Company periodically monitor such estimates
and assumptions and makes sure they incorporate all relevant information available at the date when financial
statements are prepared. However, this does not prevent actual figures differing from estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies that
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and the estimates and
assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
(a)	Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets
The cost of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets is depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated economic useful lives. The directors estimate the useful lives of these property, plant
and equipment and right-of-use assets to be within 3 to 50 years. Changes in the expected level of usage
and technological developments could impact the economic useful lives and the residual values of these
assets, therefore future depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets is disclosed in Note 6 and Note 7 respectively.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group and the Company assess whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial
assets at each reporting date. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that
the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset
or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to
sell and its value in use.
The carrying amount of the non-financial assets are disclosed in Notes 6 to 10 respectively.
(c) Loss allowances of financial assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that
a financial asset is impaired. To determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment, the Group
and the Company consider factors such as the probability of insolvency, significant financial difficulties
of the receivables, default or significant delay in payments, current economic trends, the impact of the
coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and forward-looking information that is available.
Where there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount and timing of future cash flows are estimated
based on historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
(d) Tax
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing
of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results
and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments
to tax provisions already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for
possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits
and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the relevant tax authority. Such
differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing
in the respective Group’s domicile.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
115
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Tax (continued)
The carrying amount of current tax assets at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company is
RM1,215,121 (2019: RM3,694,881) and RM1,149,083 (2019: RM42,237) respectively.
The carrying amount of current tax liabilities at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company is
RM1,682,436 (2019: RM153,232) and RM NIL (2019: RM NIL) respectively.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 12.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable
profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is
required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely
timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
(e) Net realisable value of inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is written down
to their estimated realisable value when their cost may no longer be recoverable such as when inventories
are damaged or become wholly or partly obsolete or their selling prices have declined. In any case, the
realisable value represents the best estimate of the recoverable amount, is based on the most reliable
evidence available at the reporting date and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected
realisable value. The benchmarks for determining the amount of write-downs to net realisable value include
ageing analysis, technical assessment and subsequent events. In general, such an evaluation process
requires significant judgement and may materially affect the carrying amount of inventories at the reporting
date (as reflected in Note 14).
(f) Share-based payments
Share-based payments are measured at grant date fair value. For share options granted to employees,
in many cases market prices are not available and therefore the fair value of the options granted shall be
estimated by applying an option pricing model. Option pricing models need input data such as expected
volatility of the share price, expected dividends or the risk-free interest rate for the life of the option.
The overall objective is to approximate the expectations that would be reflected in a current market or
negotiated exchange price for the option. Such assumptions are subject to judgements and may turn out
to be significantly different than expected.
Fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s and the Company’s estimate of equity instruments
that will eventually vest. The estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest is revised by
the Group and the Company at the end of each reporting period through settlement. Revisions of the
original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss so that the cumulative expense includes the revised
estimate, with the corresponding adjustment to the reserve for employee equity-settled benefits.
(g) Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
Judgement has been exercised in considering the impacts that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
has had, or may have, on the Group and the Company based on known information. This consideration
extends to the nature of the products and services offered, customers, supply chain, staffing and
geographic regions in which the Group and the Company operate. Other than as addressed in specific
notes, there does not currently appear to be either any significant impact upon the financial statements
or any significant uncertainties with respect to events or conditions which may impact the Group and the
Company unfavourably as at the reporting date or subsequently as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
116
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
				 Furniture,
					 fittings
				 Motor and office Plant and			 Capital work
		 Buildings Apartments vehicles equipment machinery Renovations Signage in progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2019 116,298,050 1,049,301 4,937,912 10,133,934 128,229,041 5,295,218 245,394 6,829,972 273,018,822
Additions 269,581 – 1,372,075 959,575 2,601,161 1,615,720 37,485 14,327,360 21,182,957
Disposals – (521,423) (687,592) (6,546) (522,511) – – – (1,738,072)
Written off (94,657) – – – (11,400) – – – (106,057)
Transfer to investment
  properties (2,082,925) – – – – – – – (2,082,925)
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates (416,791) (11,966) (29,243) (30,547) (420,680) – – 36,099 (873,128)
Reclassification 55,831 – – 89,982 4,341,918 1,154,251 4,150 (5,646,132) –
At 31 December 2019/
  1 January 2020 114,029,089 515,912 5,593,152 11,146,398 134,217,529 8,065,189 287,029 15,547,299 289,401,597
Additions 1,605,713 – 483,303 308,618 2,861,998 389,777 – 12,626,561 18,275,970
Disposals – – (330,994) (3,700) (277,035) – – – (611,729)
Written off – – – (20,195) (3,800) – – (279,169) (303,164)
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates 808,884 – 55,498 57,541 883,325 – – 107,852 1,913,100
Reclassification – – – 1,992,655 8,673,789 – – (10,666,444) –
At 31 December 2020 116,443,686 515,912 5,800,959 13,481,317 146,355,806 8,454,966 287,029 17,336,099 308,675,774
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
117
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
				 Furniture,
					 fittings
				 Motor and office Plant and			 Capital work
		 Buildings Apartments vehicles equipment machinery Renovations Signage in progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2019 5,566,980 259,552 1,728,554 3,294,657 33,310,957 4,688,086 42,543 – 48,891,329
Charge for the financial year 2,397,249 16,514 560,863 1,133,290 11,899,998 374,562 23,191 – 16,405,667
Disposals – (116,722) (559,938) (873) (511,471) – – – (1,189,004)
Written off (94,657) – – – (11,400) – – – (106,057)
Transfer to investment
  properties (556,057) – – – – – – – (556,057)
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates (83,696) (2,695) (18,627) (25,706) (304,122) – – – (434,846)
At 31 December 2019/  
  1 January 2020 7,229,819 156,649 1,710,852 4,401,368 44,383,962 5,062,648 65,734 – 63,011,032
Charge for the financial year 2,317,859 10,741 637,298 1,321,133 11,751,953 376,194 24,723 – 16,439,901
Disposals – – (322,783) (679) (244,004) – – – (567,466)
Written off – – – (2,363) (3,798) – – – (6,161)
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates 157,390 – 35,469 47,534 569,316 – – – 809,709
At 31 December 2020 9,705,068 167,390 2,060,836 5,766,993 56,457,429 5,438,842 90,457 – 79,687,015
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
118
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
				 Furniture,
					 fittings
				 Motor and office Plant and			 Capital work
		 Buildings Apartments vehicles equipment machinery Renovations Signage in progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Accumulated
  impairment loss
At 1 January 2019 – – – – – – – – -
Charge for the financial
  year – – – – 474,258 – – – 474,258
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates – – – – (5,183) – – – (5,183)
At 31 December 2019/  
  1 January 2020 – – – – 469,075 – – – 469,075
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates – – – – 20,890 – – – 20,890
At 31 December 2020 – – – – 489,965 – – – 489,965
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2019/  
  1 January 2020 106,799,270 359,263 3,882,300 6,745,030 89,364,492 3,002,541 221,295 15,547,299 225,921,490
At 31 December 2020 106,738,618 348,522 3,740,123 7,714,324 89,408,412 3,016,124 196,572 17,336,099 228,498,794
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
119
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Apartments
The strata title for apartments with net carrying amount of RM162,552 (2019: RM167,541) have yet to be
issued to a subsidiary.
(b) Security
Buildings with net carrying amount of RM14,853,059 (2019: RM14,561,056) have been charge to licensed
banks for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 18).
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
					 Prepaid
				 Leasehold lease
				 lands payments Total
				RM RM RM
Group
Cost 		
At 1 January 2019 22,801,710 3,862,238 26,663,948
Transfer to investment properties (6,063,920) – (6,063,920)
Effect of movements in exchange rates – (86,639) (86,639)
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 16,737,790 3,775,599 20,513,389
Effect of movements in exchange rates – 168,146 168,146
At 31 December 2020 16,737,790 3,943,745 20,681,535
Accumulated depreciation			
At 1 January 2019 2,506,463 926,936 3,433,399
Charge for the financial year 269,714 77,476 347,190
Transfer to investment properties (943,301) – (943,301)
Effect of movements in exchange rates – (22,756) (22,756)
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 1,832,876 981,656 2,814,532
Charge for the financial year 201,066 79,542 280,608
Effect of movements in exchange rates – 43,052 43,052
At 31 December 2020 2,033,942 1,104,250 3,138,192
Carrying amounts			
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 14,904,914 2,793,943 17,698,857
At 31 December 2020 14,703,848 2,839,495 17,543,343
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
120
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(a) Lands
The lands are wholly related to leasehold lands with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
(b) Prepaid lease payments
The prepaid lease payments are wholly related to a leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than
50 years. The prepaid lease payments are not transferable and have a remaining tenure of 36 years (2019:
37 years).
(c) Security
Leasehold lands with net carrying amount of RM16,086,747 (2019: RM16,215,119) have been charged to
licensed banks banking facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 18).
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 10,880,252 3,341,812
Disposals (388,306) (608,911)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – 2,082,925
Transfer from right-of-use assets – 6,063,920
Effect of movements in exchange rates – 506
At 31 December 10,491,946 10,880,252
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2,315,454 872,912
Charge for the financial year 146,355 48,049
Disposals (112,601) (104,941)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – 556,057
Transfer from right-of-use assets – 943,301
Effect of movements in exchange rates – 76
At 31 December 2,349,208 2,315,454
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 8,142,738 8,564,798
Represented by:
Freehold land – 78,000
Leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years 5,978,203 6,059,612
Buildings 2,164,535 2,427,186
8,142,738 8,564,798
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
121
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
Investment properties comprise two (2019: three) commercial properties that are leased to third parties. The
leases are renewable on yearly basis. No contingent is charged.
The fair value of the investment properties are as follows:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
		
At 31 December 51,726,193 62,766,841
The Group estimates the fair value of its investment properties based on the comparison of the Group’s investment
properties with similar properties that were listed for sale within the same locality or other comparable localities.
The disclosure of fair value above was measured at the reporting date using the following method:
Significant observable inputs other than quoted prices (Level 2)
The valuation of residential investment property is based on comparable market transactions that consider sales
of similar properties that have been transacted in the open market.
Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
The valuation of commercial property is based on market comparable approach. The significant unobservable
input is yield adjustment based on directors’ assumptions. The yield adjustments are made for any difference in
the nature, location or condition of the specific property.
The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Rental income (1,296,815) (610,382)
Direct operating expenses 146,265 140,462
Investment properties of the Group amounting to RM8,142,738 (2019: RM8,288,576) has been charged to a
licensed bank for credit facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 18).
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
122
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
			 Company
					2020 2019
					RM RM
		
Unquoted shares - at cost 37,037,514 35,237,514
Addition – 1,800,000
37,037,514 37,037,514
Less: Impairment loss (96,900) (96,900)
36,940,614 36,940,614
Capital contribution 24,314,946 24,774,746
61,255,560 61,715,360
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Subsidiaries of the Company
Effective
ownership
interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2020 2019
% %
Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Manufacturing and sale of
  frozen food products
KG Pastry Marketing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Investment property and rental
  of trucks
Kawan Food Confectionery Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Malaysia Investment holding
Dikawan Food Sdn. Bhd.* 51 51 Malaysia Food truck operator
Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited**# 100 100 Hong Kong Trading and distribution of
  frozen food products
KLBG Sdn. Bhd. 60 60 Malaysia Manufacturing and exporting
  of frozen food products
Subsidiary of Kawan Food
  (Hong Kong) Limited
Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.** 100 100 The People’s
Republic
of China
Manufacturing and trading of
  frozen food delicacies
* In the progress of winding up
** Audited by other member firms of RSM International
# The capital contribution to Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited are interest free and are determined to form
part of the Company’s net investment in the subsidiary, hence are deemed as quasi-equity.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
123
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Non-controlling interests in subsidiary
The Group’s subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) is as follows:
			 KLBG Sdn. Bhd.
					2020 2019
					RM RM
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest 40% 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 658,595 1,023,933
Loss allocated to NCI (365,338) (176,067)
Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination
As at 31 December
Non-current asset 718,740 742,829
Current assets 1,357,928 1,868,076
Current liability (430,181) (51,073)
Net assets 1,646,487 2,559,832
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 8,038 –
Loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year (913,345) (440,168)
Cash flows used in operating activities (53,822) (819,343)
Cash flows used in investing activity – (753,054)
Cash flows from financing activity – 2,999,000
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalent (53,822) 1,426,603
10. INVESTMENT IN A JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITY
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Unquoted shares - at cost – –
Details of the jointly controlled entity are as follows:
Jointly controlled entity
Effective
ownership
interest
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
2020 2019
% %
Hot & Go Management Sdn. Bhd. 50 50 Malaysia Operation of kiosk for food
  and beverage
As at 31 December 2020, the company is in the progress of winding up.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
124
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
11. OTHER INVESTMENTS
				 Shares
				 quoted in	Unit
				 Malaysia trust Total
				RM RM RM
Group
2020
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 392,000 13,091,314 13,483,314
Market value of quoted investments 392,000 13,091,314 13,483,314
2019
Current
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 593,600 5,840,134 6,433,734
Market value of quoted investments 593,600 5,840,134 6,433,734
			 Company
					2020 2019
					RM RM
		
Non-current
At cost		
Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares (Unquoted shares) 122,000,000 –
Dividend recognised in profit or loss 3,599,000 –
On 1 January 2020, the Company subscribed 122,000,000 Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares at an
issue price of RM1.00 per share of a subsidiary for a total consideration of RM122,000,000 by capitalising the
amount due from the subsidiary.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
125
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
12. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
		 Assets Liabilities Net
		 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group						
Property, plant and
  equipment – – (12,608,470) (12,731,862) (12,608,470) (12,731,862)
Provisions 3,753,886 2,047,755 – – 3,753,886 2,047,755
Unabsorbed capital
  allowances – 3,938,698 – – – 3,938,698
Others 387,055 95,778 (266,452) (270,044) 120,603 (174,266)
Deferred tax assets/
  (liabilities) 4,140,941 6,082,231 (12,874,922) (13,001,906) (8,733,981) (6,919,675)
Set off (3,655,383) (5,617,375) 3,655,383 5,617,375 – –
Net deferred tax assets/
  (liabilities) 485,558 464,856 (9,219,539) (7,384,531) (8,733,981) (6,919,675)
Movement in temporary differences during the financial year
				
Recognised			
Recognised in
			Recognised in other		Recognised other		
			 in profit comprehensive At in profit comprehensive
		 At or loss income 31.12.2019/ or loss income At
		 1.1.2019 (Note 25) (Note 26) 1.1.2020 (Note 25) (Note 26) 31.12.2020
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group							
Property, plant and
  equipment (11,204,895) (1,526,967) – (12,731,862) 123,392 – (12,608,470)
Provisions 1,445,759 598,551 3,445 2,047,755 1,704,642 1,489 3,753,886
Unabsorbed capital
  allowances 5,443,580 (1,504,882) – 3,938,698 (3,938,698) – –
Others (868,581) 696,206 (1,891) (174,266) 306,055 (11,186) 120,603
(5,184,137) (1,737,092) 1,554 (6,919,675) (1,804,609) (9,697) (8,733,981)
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
126
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
12. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has the following deferred tax assets which are not recognised in the financial
statements due to uncertainty in the availability of future taxable income:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Property, plant and equipment (20,171) –
Unabsorbed capital allowances 25,952 –
Unabsorbed tax losses 198,703 –
204,484 –
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances and unabsorbed tax losses of
approximately RM108,000 and RM827,000 respectively, which are available to set off against future chargeable
income.
The unabsorbed tax losses are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits except for the tax
losses which will expire in the following financial years:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Year of assessments
  2026 300,817 –
  2027 527,113 –
13. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Trade
Trade receivables (a) 47,654,680 45,250,365 – –
Less: Impairment loss
- Individual impairment
  losses (368,022) (371,427) – –
- Collective impairment
  losses (169,365) (352,687) – –
Effect of movements in
  exchange rates 3,665 8,520 – –
47,120,958 44,534,771 – –
Non-trade
Amount due from a subsidiary (b) – – 3,599,000 122,284,335
Other receivables 2,478,590 1,752,066 2,000 2,000
2,478,590 1,752,066 3,601,000 122,286,335
49,599,548 46,286,837 3,601,000 122,286,335
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
127
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
13. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days (2019: 30 to 90 days) terms.
They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial recognition.
Included in trade receivables of the Group is amount of RM4,895,069 (2019: RM5,364,827) due from
companies in which certain directors have interests and held directorship.
(b) Amount due from a subsidiary
Amount due from a subsidiary is unsecured, interest free and receivable on demand.
Included in amount due from a subsidiary is amount of RM NIL (2019: RM122,284,335) advance to a
subsidiary, subject to interest at base lending rate (“BLR”) of NIL (2019: 4.76%).
14. INVENTORIES
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
At cost
Raw materials 3,011,374 2,862,818
Packing materials 5,124,640 4,454,735
Finished goods 18,296,882 13,846,054
Spare parts 1,738,012 113,708
Goods-in-transit 2,068,129 2,422,257
30,239,037 23,699,572
Recognised in profit or loss:		
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 153,421,363 142,333,310
Inventories written off 661,595 744,239
Provision for slow moving inventories 407,322 270,497
15. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Deposits placed with licensed banks 6,486,429 15,976,895 688,626 3,051,337
Cash and bank balances 59,832,631 32,846,250 1,650,994 1,511,591
66,319,060 48,823,145 2,339,620 4,562,928
Deposits placed with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company comprise placements in fixed income trusts
of which RM898,648 (2019: RM1,136,087) and RM609,240 (2019: RM696,245) respectively are redeemable at call
whereas RM5,587,781 (2019: RM14,840,808) and RM79,386 (2019: RM2,355,092) respectively are redeemable
upon 1 day notice.
These deposits are subject to interest at rates ranging from 1.12% to 2.41% (2019: 0.25% to 3.61%) per annum.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
128
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
16. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
					RM RM
Issued and fully paid 359,519,760 359,519,760 179,759,880 179,759,880
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to
one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
17. RESERVES
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Non-distributable:
Translation reserve 9,027,958 8,079,680 – –
ESOS share option reserve 1,114,860 – 1,114,860 –
10,142,818 8,079,680 1,114,860 –
Distributable:
Retained earnings 155,106,025 136,076,162 9,390,668 8,721,005
165,248,843 144,155,842 10,505,528 8,721,005
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”).
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
At beginning of financial year 8,079,680 8,830,490
Foreign currency translation during the financial year 948,278 (750,810)
At end of financial year 9,027,958 8,079,680
Share option reserve
The share option reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of share
options. When the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital.
When the share options expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
129
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
17. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments arrangement
Share option programme (equity settled)
On 21 October 2020, the Company granted share options to eligible employees to purchase shares in the Company
under the Employees’ Share Option Scheme approved by the shareholders of the Company on 31 May 2018. In
accordance with this programme, holders of vested options are entitled to purchase shares at the market price
of the shares at the date of grant. The exercisable period is from 21 October 2020 to 20 October 2021.
The terms and conditions related to the grant of the share option scheme are as follows; all options are to be
settled by physical delivery of shares:
		 Number Contractual
Grant date/employee entitled of options life of options
Option grant to eligible employees on 21 October 2020 5,004,000 1 year
Total share options 5,004,000
No vesting conditions for options offered.
The number and weighted average exercise process of shares options are as follows:
					
2020
						
Number
						
of options
Outstanding at 1 January –
Granted during the financial year 5,004,000
Outstanding at 31 December 5,004,000
Exercisable at 31 December 5,004,000
The options outstanding at 31 December 2020 have an exercise price at RM2.35 (2019: RM NIL) and contractual
life of 1 year (2019: NIL).
No options were exercised during the financial year.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
130
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
17. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments arrangement (continued)
Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options
granted, measured using trinomial option pricing model, with the following inputs:
						
2020
						
RM
Fair value of share options and assumptions
Fair value at grant date 0.2228
Weighted average share price 2.602
Share price at grant date 2.590
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility)				 50.602%
Options life (expected weighted average life)				 1 year
Expected dividends 1.799%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysia Government Securities) 1.572%
Value of employee services received for issue of share options
						
Group
						
and
						
Company
						
2020
						
RM
Share options granted in 2020 1,114,860
Total expenses recognised as share-based payments 1,114,860
18. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Term loans
Classified as:
- non-current liability 5,735,628 9,358,129
- current liability 9,448,927 6,398,971
15,184,555 15,757,100
Present value of term loans
Analysed as follows:
- not later than 1 year 9,448,927 6,398,971
- later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 5,735,628 9,358,129
15,184,555 15,757,100
The Group’s term loans which are secured over leasehold lands and buildings of subsidiaries and subject to
interest at rates ranging from 1.24% to 4.59% (2019: 3.41% to 5.00%) per annum (Notes 6, 7 and 8).
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
131
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Trade
Trade payables (a) 18,334,928 14,953,086 – –
Non-trade
Other payables (b) 4,935,399 3,351,457 513 48,431
Accruals 21,622,619 16,542,679 110,264 100,070
26,558,018 19,894,136 110,777 148,501
44,892,946 34,847,222 110,777 148,501
(a) Trade payables
		
(i) Credit terms of trade payables are ranging from 30 to 60 days (2019: 30 to 60 days).
(ii) Included in trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM1,920,157 (2019: RM4,007,508) due to
companies in which certain directors have interests.
(b) Other payables
Included in other payables of the Group is an amount of RM343,997 (2019: RM NIL) due to a corporate
shareholder of a subsidiary.
20. REVENUE
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contracts
  with customers 254,699,461 214,044,870 – –
Others				
- rental of property 3,500 42,000 – –
- dividends – – 12,586,995 8,134,000
254,702,961 214,086,870 12,586,995 8,134,000
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
132
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
20. REVENUE (CONTINUED)
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contracts
  with customers in primary
  geographical markets 				
Malaysia 111,252,216 84,451,475 12,586,995 8,134,000
North America 60,436,983 54,893,242 – –
Rest of Asia 47,477,689 44,744,380 – –
Europe 22,288,728 19,049,847 – –
Oceania 12,471,622 10,491,824 – –
Africa 775,723 456,102 – –
254,702,961 214,086,870 12,586,995 8,134,000
Timing of recognition 				
At a point in time 254,699,461 214,044,870 12,586,995 8,134,000
Over time 3,500 42,000 – –
254,702,961 214,086,870 12,586,995 8,134,000
Nature
of goods
Timing of
recognition
Significant
payment terms
Variable
element in
consideration
Obligation for
returns or refund Warranty
Frozen
food
products
Revenue is
recognised
upon transfer
of significant
risk and reward
of ownership
of the goods to
the customer
Local sales:
Credit period of 30
to 90 days from
invoice date
Export sales:
Telegraphic
transfer at sight
and telegraphic
transfer 90 days
from bill of lading
date
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
Rental of
property
Revenue is
recognised
based on the
consideration
specified
in a rental
agreement with
tenant
On or before 10th
of each calendar
month
Not
applicable
Upon expiry rental
agreement, security
deposit is refundable
after deduct unpaid
rent, repairs for
damage other than
normal wear and tear
or earlier termination
by any parties
Not
applicable
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
133
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
21. OTHER INCOME
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Gain on foreign exchange:		
- realised 176 557,597
- unrealised 460,000 –
Rental income 4,082,746 626,867
Other income 1,297,016 2,167,845
5,839,938 3,352,309
22. FINANCE INCOME
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Interest income of financial
  assets calculated using the
  effective interest method
  that are at amortised cost:		
- intercompany – – – 5,038,587
- deposits with licensed banks 467,282 489,705 60,687 191,429
467,282 489,705 60,687 5,230,016
23. FINANCE COSTS
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Interest expense of financial
  liabilities that are not at fair
  value through profit or loss:			
- term loans, secured 574,817 825,674 – –
- other bank charges 202,495 172,228 78 138
777,312 997,902 78 138
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
134
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
24. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON
Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting):
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- audit fee 275,506 271,887 48,000 45,000
- non-audit fee 7,000 5,000 7,000 5,000
Depreciation of investment
  properties 146,355 48,049 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and
  equipment 16,439,901 16,405,667 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 280,608 347,190 – –
Employees’ share option scheme
  expenses 1,114,860 – 1,114,860 –
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial assets 201,600 (420,000) – –
Impairment loss on trade receivables:
- individual impairment loss 80,619 371,427 – –
- collective impairment loss 18,846 352,687 – –
Impairment loss on property, plant and
  equipment – 474,258 – –
Inventories written off 661,595 744,239 – –
Personnel expenses (including key
  management personnel):
- wages, salaries and others 41,843,359 32,347,957 33,000 28,000
- contributions to state plans 2,771,237 2,933,252 – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 297,003 – – –
Provision for slow moving inventories 407,322 270,497 – –
Rental expenses (#) in respect of:
- coldroom 432,762 177,224 – –
- equipment – 35,800 – –
- hostel 91,000 64,900 – –
Loss on foreign exchange:
- unrealised 1,962,843 820,610 484,631 300,168
- realised 126,304 61 – 61
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
  equipment (282,157) (531,993) – –
Gain on disposal of investment properties (376,977) (993,459) – –
Reversal of impairment loss on trade
 receivables:				
- individual impairment loss (84,024) – – –
- collective impairment loss (202,168) – – –
Gain on foreign exchange:				
- unrealised (460,000) – – –
- realised (176) (557,597) – –
Rental income from:				
- investment properties (1,296,815) (610,382) – –
- office and factory (376,461) – – –
- coldroom (2,412,971) – – –
- hostel (120,750) (114,750) – –
# For short-term leases with lease term of 12 months or less and for leases of low value assets of less than
RM21,000, the Group has availed the exemption in MFRS 16 not to recognise the right-of-use assets and
lease liabilities. Instead, payments made for these leases are recognised as expense when incurred.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
135
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
25. TAXATION
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Current tax
Malaysia
- current 2,212,485 1,385,474 – 1,126,514
- (over)/under provision in prior
  financial years (38,083) (29,176) 6,933 (1,146)
Overseas
- current 418,420 246,941 – –
- over provision in prior years (34,558) – – –
2,558,264 1,603,239 6,933 1,125,368
Deferred tax
Original and reversal of temporary
  differences 1,915,942 2,749,706 – –
Over provision in prior financial years (111,333) (1,012,614) – –
1,804,609 1,737,092 – –
Total tax expense 4,362,873 3,340,331 6,933 1,125,368
Reconciliation of effective tax expense
The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting results multiplied by the
applicable tax rates are as follows:
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Profit before taxation 32,015,393 15,354,048 9,650,725 11,674,444
Income tax calculated using Malaysian
  tax rate of 24% (2019: 24%) 7,683,694 3,684,972 2,316,174 2,801,867
Tax effects in respect of:				
Effect of tax rate in foreign jurisdiction (62,090) (21,961) – –
Non-deductible expenses 2,211,126 1,995,925 719,270 1,290,688
Non-taxable income (157,823) (967,938) – (967,938)
Tax exempt income (1,012,604) (103,901) (3,035,444) (1,998,103)
Reinvestment allowance incentive (2,533,902) – – –
Double deduction on qualifying
  expenditure (1,062,531) (643,307) – –
Effect of deferred tax assets not
  recognised 204,484 – – –
Others (723,507) 438,331 – –
4,546,847 4,382,121 – 1,126,514
(Over)/Under provision:
- current tax (72,641) (29,176) 6,933 (1,146)
- deferred tax (111,333) (1,012,614) – –
4,362,873 3,340,331 6,933 1,125,368
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
136
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
26. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Foreign currency translation gain/(loss) for foreign
  operations during the financial year 957,975 (752,364)
Less: Tax (expense)/credit (9,697) 1,554
Net of tax 948,278 (750,810)
27. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2020 was based on the profit attributable
to owners of the Company of RM28,017,858 (2019: RM12,189,784) and a weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding of 359,519,760 (2019: 359,519,760).
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2020 was based on the profit attributable
to owners of the Company of RM28,017,858 and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
of 360,506,850 after adjustment for the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to Employees’ Share
Option Scheme (“ESOS”).
In 2019, there is no diluted earnings per share as the Company does not have any dilutive ordinary shares.
28. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Company:
				 Sen Total
				 per share amount Date of payment
					 RM
			
2020 		
Interim 2020 ordinary - single tier 2.5 8,987,995 30 March 2020
2019 		
Interim 2019 ordinary - single tier 2.5 8,987,995 29 March 2019
In respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2021, the Company declared and paid an interim single tier
dividend of 3.0 sen per ordinary share totalling RM10,785,593 on 30 March 2021.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
137
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are as described in Note 3(t).
The Group’s reportable segments are organised in accordance with the Group entities, which are the Group’s
strategic business units. The strategic business units offer products to different markets and managed separately
because they require different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Group’s Managing
Director (the chief operating decision maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a quarterly basis.
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, and depreciation, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s Managing Director, who is the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information
is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within
these industries.
Segment assets
The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of a segment, as included in
the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s Managing Director. Segment total assets are
used to measure the return on assets of each segment.
Segment liabilities
Segment liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provide regularly to the
Managing Director. Hence no disclosure is made on segment liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and
equipment, investment properties and intangible assets other than goodwill.
			 Manufacturing
			 and trading
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Group
Reporting segment profit 61,530,026 41,422,044
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
- revenue from external customers 254,702,961 214,086,870
- inter-company revenue 140,929,138 122,255,715
Not included in the measure of reporting segment profit
  but provided to Managing Director:
- depreciation (16,866,864) (16,800,906)
- finance costs (777,312) (6,327,155)
- finance income 467,282 5,818,958
- income tax expense (4,381,133) (3,334,317)
Segment assets		
Included in the measure of segment assets are:		
- additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments
  and deferred tax assets 18,275,970 21,182,957
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
138
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and other material items:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Profit or loss
Total profit or loss for reportable segments 61,530,026 41,422,044
Elimination of inter-segment profits (12,337,739) (8,758,893)
Depreciation (16,866,864) (16,800,906)
Finance income 467,282 489,705
Finance costs (777,312) (997,902)
Consolidated profit before tax 32,015,393 15,354,048
		 External		Finance Finance Segment
		 revenue Depreciation costs income assets
		 RM RM RM RM RM
					
2020
Total reportable segments 395,632,099 (16,866,864) (777,312) 467,282 688,166,601
Elimination of inter-segment
  transaction or balances (140,929,138) – – – (271,519,807)
Consolidated 254,702,961 (16,866,864) (777,312) 467,282 416,646,794
2019
Total reportable segments 336,342,585 (16,800,906) (6,327,155) 5,818,958 629,025,193
Elimination of inter-segment
  transaction or balances (122,255,715) – 5,329,253 (5,329,253) (245,943,453)
Consolidated 214,086,870 (16,800,906) (997,902) 489,705 383,081,740
Geographical segments
The manufacturing of frozen food products is carried out solely in Malaysia and China.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical
location of customers.
Geographical information
The geographical information is shown in Note 20.
Major customer
The Group has one (2019: one) major customer contributing revenue greater than 10% of the Group’s total
revenue.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
139
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Categories of financial instruments of the Group and the Company are as follows:
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Assets				
Financial assets at amortised cost				
-  Other investments – – 122,000,000 –
-  Trade and other receivables 49,599,548 46,286,837 3,601,000 122,286,335
-  Cash and cash equivalents 66,319,060 48,823,145 2,339,620 4,562,928
115,918,608 95,109,982 127,940,620 126,849,263
Financial assets at fair value
  through profit or loss				
-  Other investments 13,483,314 6,433,734 – –
Liabilities				
Financial liabilities at amortised
 cost				
-  Loans and borrowings 15,184,555 15,757,100 – –
-  Trade and other payables 44,892,946 34,847,222 110,777 148,501
60,077,501 50,604,322 110,777 148,501
(b) Net gains/(losses) arising from financial instruments
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Net gains/(losses) on:
Financial instruments at fair value
  through profit or loss
Other investments – recognised in
  profit or loss 49,580 519,889 – –
Financial assets at amortised
  cost (1,447,134) (796,140) 3,174,978 4,929,650
Financial liabilities at amortised
  cost (556,319) (799,134) – –
(1,953,873) (1,075,385) 3,174,978 4,929,650
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
140
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
(a) Credit risk
(b) Liquidity risk
(c) Market risk
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument
fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its
receivables from customers.
(i) Receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing
basis. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the credit control management has also been
performing more frequent credit evaluation of customers in regions and industries that are severely
impacted. Normally financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or directors of the Company
are obtained, and credit evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain
amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables is credit impaired.
The gross carrying amount of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or in full)
when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines
that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows
to repay the amount subject to write off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could
still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from receivables is
represented by the carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor
impaired are stated at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular
customers that have been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor
the credit quality of the receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due more than
90 days, which are deemed to have higher credit risk, are monitored individually.
For each significant receivable that is credit-impaired, individual lifetime Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”)
is recognised using the probability of default technique. The inputs used are: (i) the percent chance
of default, and (ii) the expected cash shortfalls. The lifetime ECL is measured at the probability-
weighted expected cash shortfalls by reference to the Group’s past experience, current conditions
and forecast of future economic benefits.
For significant receivables that are not individually credit-impaired and all other receivables, the Group
uses a provision matrix that categorises based on ageing profiles. The collective lifetime ECLs are
measured based on total outstanding trade receivables as per aged bracket multiply by probability
of default. Probability of default is average of incremental rate of trade receivables over total sales.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
141
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period by geographic
region was as follows:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
		
Malaysia 19,374,032 16,276,986
North America 14,140,693 13,435,371
Europe 4,892,178 5,568,582
Rest of Asia 7,012,209 5,420,275
Oceania 1,350,818 3,431,676
Africa 351,028 401,881
47,120,958 44,534,771
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except
for the amount due from one customer (2019: one customer) representing 14% (2019: 14%) of total
trade receivables of the Group. The Group does not anticipate the carrying amount recorded at the
end of each reporting period to be significantly different from the value that would eventually be
received.
Impairment losses
The aging analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period was:
					 Effect of
		 Gross Individual Collective movements in Net
		 amount impairment impairment exchange rates amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2020 				
Not past due 32,535,824 – (64,486) 1,159 32,472,497
Past due 1-30 days 8,728,700 – (40,216) 1,358 8,689,842
Past due 31-90 days 4,905,692 – (47,659) 2,844 4,860,877
Past due more than 90 days 1,484,464 (368,022) (17,004) (1,696) 1,097,742
		
Total past due 15,118,856 (368,022) (104,879) 2,506 14,648,461
47,654,680 (368,022) (169,365) 3,665 47,120,958
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
142
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(i) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses (continued)
					 Effect of
		 Gross Individual Collective movements in Net
		 amount impairment impairment exchange rates amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2019 				
Not past due 23,035,424 – (78,427) 508 22,957,505
Past due 1-30 days 8,079,231 – (61,742) 804 8,018,293
Past due 31-90 days 8,371,611 (19,718) (111,689) 2,198 8,242,402
Past due more than 90 days 5,764,099 (351,709) (100,829) 5,010 5,316,571
		
Total past due 22,214,941 (371,427) (274,260) 8,012 21,577,266
45,250,365 (371,427) (352,687) 8,520 44,534,771
For balances which are past due but not impaired, management is monitoring individual balances
closely and is confident of repayment based on subsequent collections after year end past repayment
trends of these customers.
The allowance account is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is satisfied that recovery
of the amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable
directly.
The impairment loss as at end of reporting period was:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
At 1 January 715,594 –
Impairment loss recognised:		
- Individual impairment loss 80,619 371,427
- Collective impairment loss 18,846 352,687
Impairment loss no longer required:		
- Individual impairment loss (84,024) –
- Collective impairment loss (202,168) –
Effect of movements in exchange rates 4,855 (8,520)
At 31 December 533,722 715,594
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
143
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(ii) Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to banks in respect of banking facilities
granted to subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the subsidiaries to service their loans
on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Company amounted to RM15,184,555 (2019:
RM15,757,100) representing the outstanding loan amount of the subsidiaries at the end of the
reporting period.
At the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on
repayment. The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition
was not material.
(iii) Inter-company loans advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability
of the subsidiaries to repay loans and advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit
enhancements.
Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.
Recognition and measurement of impairment losses
Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The
Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial
position deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of
the subsidiaries’ loans and advances when they are payable, the Company considers the loans and
advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company
considers a subsidiary’s loan for advance to be credit impaired when:
• the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its loan or advance to the Company in full;
• the subsidiary’s loan or advance is overdue for more than 365 days; or
• the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using
internal information available.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advance to the subsidiaries
are not recoverable.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
144
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Credit risk (continued)
(iv) Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the
reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in
the statement of financial position.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risk. Consequently, the Group and the Company
are of the view that the loss allowances is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations
as and when they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from
its various payables, corporate guarantees, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed
adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its
liabilities when they fall due.
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities as
at the end of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
		 Carrying Contractual Contractual Less than 1 - 2 2 - 5
		 amount interest rate cash flows 1 year years years
		 RM % RM RM RM RM
2020
Group
Non-derivative financial
 liabilities
Loans and borrowings 15,184,555 1.24% - 4.59% 15,701,364 9,772,029 3,787,727 2,141,608
Corporate guarantees 88,639,000 88,639,000 88,639,000 – –
Trade and other payables 44,892,946 44,892,946 44,892,946 – –
148,716,501 149,233,310 143,303,975 3,787,727 2,141,608
Company
Non-derivative financial
 liabilities
Corporate guarantees 88,639,000 88,639,000 88,639,000 – –
Trade and other payables 110,777 110,777 110,777 – –
88,749,777 88,749,777 88,749,777 – –
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
145
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(b) Liquidity risk (continued)
		 Carrying Contractual Contractual Less than 1 - 2 2 - 5
		 amount interest rate cash flows 1 year years years
		 RM % RM RM RM RM
2019
Group
Non-derivative financial
 liabilities
Loans and borrowings 15,757,100 3.41% - 5.00% 16,878,749 6,957,537 3,969,971 5,951,241
Corporate guarantees 96,232,500 96,232,500 96,232,500 – –
Trade and other payables 34,847,222 34,847,222 34,847,222 – –
146,836,822 147,958,471 138,037,259 3,969,971 5,951,241
Company
Non-derivative financial
 liabilities
Corporate guarantees 96,232,500 96,232,500 96,232,500 – –
Trade and other payables 148,501 148,501 148,501 – –
96,381,001 96,381,001 96,381,001 – –
(c) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and
other prices will affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
(i) Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and cash and
cash equivalents that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
of Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United Arab Emirates Dirham
(“AED”), Euro Dollar (“EURO”), British Pound Sterling (“GBP”), Renminbi (“RMB”), Singapore Dollar
(“SGD”), United States Dollar (“USD”) and Japanese Yen (“YEN”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company manage its foreign currency exposure by matching as far as possible
receipts and payments in each individual currency. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to
foreign currency risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Company enter into
forward exchange contracts in the normal course of business, where appropriate, to manage its
exposure against foreign currency fluctuations on sales and purchase transactions denominated in
foreign currencies.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
146
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(i) Currency risk (continued)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional currency of the Group entities)
risk, based on carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:
		 Denominated in
		 AED EURO GBP RMB SGD	USD YEN
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
2020
Group
Trade and other receivables – – – 733 1,383,860 1,052,399 –
Cash and cash equivalents – 30,347 – 175,045 1,481,130 5,512,167 –
Trade and other payables (6,363) (118,583) (48,330) (163,672) (198,951) (976,962) (2,692)
(6,363) (88,236) (48,330) 12,106 2,666,039 5,587,604 (2,692)
Company
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – 1,308,947 –
2019
Group
Trade and other receivables – – – 702 738,614 1,220,837 –
Cash and cash equivalents – 24,067 – 167,167 755,784 5,525,145 –
Trade and other payables – (14,156) – (154,341) – (1,054,097) –
– 9,911 – 13,528 1,494,398 5,691,885 –
Company
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – 1,335,746 –
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
147
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(i) Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2019: 10%) strengthening of the following currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
at the end of the reporting period would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates,
remained constant.
		 Group Company
		 Profit or loss Profit or loss
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
AED (484) – – –
EURO (6,706) 753 – –
GBP (3,673) – – –
RMB 920 1,028 – –
SGD 202,619 113,574 – –
USD 424,658 432,583 99,480 101,517
YEN (205) – – –
617,129 547,938 99,480 101,517
A 10% (2019: 10%) weakening of the above currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia at the end of
the reporting period would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the
amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remained constant.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due
to changes in interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of changes in
cash flows due to changes in interest rates. Short term receivables and payables are not significantly
exposed to interest rate risk.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly arises from its short term funds,
fixed deposits and borrowings and is managed through effective negotiation with financial institutions
for best available rates.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
148
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments,
based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Floating rate instruments
Financial assets 6,486,429 15,976,895 688,626 125,335,672
Financial liabilities (15,184,555) (15,757,100) – –
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not affect
profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
		 Group Company
		 Profit or loss Profit or loss
			 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp
			increase decrease increase decrease
			
RM RM RM RM
2020
Financial assets 49,297 (49,297) 5,234 (5,234)
Financial liabilities (115,403) 115,403 – –
2019
Financial assets 121,424 (121,424) 952,551 (952,551)
Financial liabilities (119,754) 119,754 – –
A change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would have
increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown above. This analysis assumes
that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
149
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(c) Market risk (continued)
(iii) Price risk
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of the financial statements will fluctuate
because of changes in market prices (other than currency or interest rate).
The Group and the Company are exposed to equity securities price risk arising from the investments
held by the Group and the Company which are classified on the statements of financial position as
fair value to profit or loss. These securities are listed in Malaysia. The Group and the Company are
not exposed to commodity price risk. To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity, the
Group and the Company diversify their portfolio.
A 5% (2019: 5%) decrease in share price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased
profit by RM19,600 (2019: RM29,680) for quoted investments classified as fair value through profit or
loss. A 5% (2019: 5%) increased in share price would have had equal but opposite effect on equity
and profit respectively.
(d) Fair value of financial instruments
(i) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose
carrying amount are a reasonable approximation of fair value
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other
receivables, trade and other payables, loans and borrowings.
The carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities are reasonable approximation of fair
values, because these are short term in nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are
repriced to market interest rates on or near to the end of the reporting period.
(ii) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
				 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
				RM RM RM
Group
2020
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 392,000 – –
Investment in unit trust 13,091,314 – –
2019
Financial assets
Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia 593,600 – –
Investment in unit trust 5,840,134 – –
The fair values of these financial assets that are quoted in an active market are determined by reference
to the quoted closing bid price at the end of the reporting period.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
150
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
(iii) Policy of transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the event
or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial
assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are
observable for the financial assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value
of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of
the reporting period. In respect of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of
interest is determined by reference to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For other
borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar borrowing arrangements.
Transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and 2 fair values during the financial year (2019: no
transfer in either directions).
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the financial assets and liabilities.
The following shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level
3, as well as the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Valuation processes applied by the Company for Level 3 fair value
The Group and the Company use discounted cash flows in respect of the measurement of fair values
of financial instruments. The management has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair
value measurements, including Level 3 fair values.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
151
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a capital base adequate to safeguard the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
future development of the business. The directors monitor and are determined to maintain an optimal debt-to-
equity ratio that complies with regulatory requirements.
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net
debt divided by equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Group includes within net debt, loans and
borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Loans and borrowings 15,184,555 15,757,100
Trade and other payables 44,892,946 34,847,222
60,077,501 50,604,322
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (66,319,060) (48,823,145)
Net debt (6,241,559) 1,781,177
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 345,008,723 323,915,722
Debt-to-equity ratio – < 0.01
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note No. 17/2005, the Company is required to maintain a
consolidated shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than 25% of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding
treasury shares) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40million. The Company has complied with
this requirement.
The Group and the Company are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement.
33. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
			 Group
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Capital expenditure commitments
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for:
  Within one year 5,197,293 2,265,575
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
152
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
34. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the directors of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year are as follows:
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Executive directors
Fees 296,230 290,000 296,230 290,000
Salaries and bonuses 4,776,352 3,604,561 – –
Defined contribution benefits 431,088 411,172 – –
Benefits-in-kind 90,175 89,788 – –
Meeting allowances (a) 33,000 28,000 33,000 28,000
5,626,845 4,423,521 329,230 318,000
Non-executive directors
Fees 407,883 396,000 407,883 396,000
Meeting allowances (a) 68,000 72,000 68,000 72,000
475,883 468,000 475,883 468,000
6,102,728 4,891,521 805,113 786,000
The number of directors of the Company whose income falls within the following bands are:
		 Executive directors Non-executive directors
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
RM150,000 and below 1 – 5 4
RM200,000 to RM500,000 – – – 1
RM500,001 to RM1,000,000 2 3 – –
RM1,000,001 and above 2 1 – –
Total 5 4 5 5
(a) Meeting allowances vary from one director to another, depending on the number of committees they sit
on and the number of meetings attended during the financial year.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
153
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
35. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
A related party is defined as follows:
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and the Company if that person:
(i) has control or joint control over the Company;
(ii) has significant influence over the Company; or
(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or the Company or of a parent of the
Company.
(b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:
(i) the entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary
and fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
(ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a
member of a group of which the other entity is a member).
(iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third party and the other entity is an associate of the third party.
(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or
entity related to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are
also related to the Company.
(vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key
management personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the Company).
(viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel
services to the Company or to the parent of the Company.
The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entity, companies which
certain directors have interest and key management personnel.
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under normal trade terms.
The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below. The balances
related to the transactions below are shown in Notes 13 and 19.
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Subsidiaries
Interest income on loans – – – 5,038,587
Dividend income from investment in
  subsidiaries – – 8,987,995 8,134,000
Dividend income from other investments – – 3,599,000 –
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
154
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
35. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Significant related party transactions (continued)
		 Group Company
			
2020 2019 2020 2019
			
RM RM RM RM
Other related party transaction
Companies in which directors of the
  Company have interest:
Sales of goods 23,388,551 18,735,984 – –
Companies in which persons related
  to directors of the Company have
 interest:
Sales of goods 1,040,298 1,093,719 – –
Purchase of goods 18,116,973 19,210,743 – –
Rental of office 300,840 27,600 – –
Rental of coldroom 2,923 – – –
Rental of plant and machineries 75,621 443 – –
Provision of transportation service 18,000 – – –
Plaster ceiling and partition works 42,702 75,098 – –
Corporate shareholder of a subsidiary:
Purchase of goods – 463,120 – –
Consultancy fees 280,299 – – –
Travelling fees 61,009 – – –
Accommodation 2,588 – – –
Key management personnel				
Executive directors:				
- fees 296,230 290,000 296,230 290,000
- remuneration 4,776,352 3,604,561 – –
- defined contribution plans 431,088 411,172 – –
- benefits-in-kind 90,175 89,788 – –
- meeting allowances 33,000 28,000 33,000 28,000
5,626,845 4,423,521 329,230 318,000
Other key management personnel: 			
- short term employee benefits 5,638,484 5,118,381 – –
- defined contribution plans 534,422 500,469 – –
- benefits-in-kind 12,233 13,691 – –
6,185,139 5,632,541 – –
Total compensation paid to key
  management personnel 11,811,984 10,056,062 329,230 318,000
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or
indirectly.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
155
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
36. CONTINGENCIES
			 Company
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Corporate guarantees given by the Company to licensed
  banks for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries 88,639,000 96,232,500
37. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) a global pandemic on 11 March
2020. The Government of Malaysia imposed the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) on 18 March 2020 to 3 May
2020 and had subsequently entered into the conditional and recovery phases of the MCO until 31 December
2020 in all states and federal territories in Malaysia.
The restrictions imposed have not, however, negatively impacted the Group’s financial performance as its main
activities of manufacturing, trading, distributing and exporting of frozen food products were allowed to operate
throughout the MCO, under the guidelines set by the National Security Council (“NSC”), Ministry of Health (“MOH”)
and Ministry of International Trade and Industry (“MITI”) respectively.
Despite its disruption on the Group’s operations, due to compliance of Standard Operating Procedure (“SOP”)
and control measures implemented by authorities, there is no significant financial impact during the financial
year. The Group continues to maintain its strong financial resilience and optimise its operations to mitigate the
impact of the pandemic.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since 31 December 2020 that has significantly affected, or may
significantly affect the Group’s operations, the results of those operations, or the Group’s state of affairs in future
financial years.
38. EVENT AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD
On 13 January 2021, the Government of Malaysia had reimposed the Movement Control Order (“MCO 2.0”) in
several states and all federal territories in Malaysia to curb the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic in the country.
However, the Group’s main business activities of manufacturing, trading, distributing and exporting of frozen
food products were considered as essential services and were allowed to operate during MCO 2.0 period under
the guidelines set by NSC, MOH and MITI.
As at the date of authorisation of the financial statements, the COVID-19 pandemic situation is still evolving
and uncertain. The Group will continue to actively monitor and manage its funds and operations to minimise
any impact arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, with the Group’s past focus on cost efficiency,
strong cash position and the resilient fundamentals of its business, the Group expects to sustain its operational
and financial performance for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 31 December 2020
(cont’d)
156
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
39. OTHER INFORMATION
(a) The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed
on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
(b) The registered office of the Company is located at:
12th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
(c) The principal place of business of the Company is located at:
Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
42920 Pulau Indah
Selangor Darul Ehsan
(d) The financial statements are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia, which is also the Group’s and the Company’s
functional currency.
40. APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on
15 April 2021.
157
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
We, the undersigned, being two of the directors of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-
V)) do hereby state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 88 to 156 are drawn
up in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020 and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended on that date.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
GAN THIAM CHAI GAN THIAM HOCK
Director Director
Selangor
15 April 2021
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
I, CHAY WAI YEE, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
(Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on
pages 88 to 156 are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
CHAY WAI YEE
(MIA no. 11142)
Subscribed and solemnly declared
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur
in the Federal Territory on 15 April 2021
Before me
S. ARULSAMY (W490)
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
158
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the members of Kawan Food Berhad
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Kawan Food Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set
out on pages 88 to 156.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year
then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards
Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence
Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws
and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
159
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition
Refer to Note 20 - Revenue
Revenue recognition is a presumed fraud risk as the
Group may be under pressure by external parties (i.e.
expectations by shareholders and market analysts) and
internal parties (i.e. performance of management). This
may lead to potential misstatement of revenue.
The details of our work performed are as follows:
• We assessed and evaluated the appropriateness
of the design and implementation of controls over
revenue cycle with no exception noted.
• We performed test of operating effectiveness on the
relevant controls identified within the revenue cycle
with no exception noted.
• We performed substantive testing to verify revenue
transactions to respective sales invoices and
acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the
transfer of risks and rewards of ownership of the
goods to customers based on selected samples.
• We verified the credit notes and sales returns issued
subsequent to the year-end date to ascertain whether
revenue was recognised in the correct financial
period.
• We assessed cut-off procedures implemented by
management to verify revenue transactions pre and
post year-end date and agreed the sales invoices
and acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the
transfer of risks and rewards of ownership of goods
and confirm that these transactions were recognised
in the correct financial periods.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
report and Statement on Risk and Management Internal Controls included in the annual report but does not include
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of Kawan Food Berhad
(cont’d)
160
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or
the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and the Company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the
direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of Kawan Food Berhad
(cont’d)
161
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which
we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content
of this report.
RSM Malaysia Yong Kam Fei
AF: 0768 02562/07/2022 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
15 April 2021
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of Kawan Food Berhad
(cont’d)
162
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
list of
properties
Location / Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx.
Land
Area/
Built-up Area
Issuance of
Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Held under H.S. (D) No.
135852, PT129351,
Mukim dan Daerah
Klang, Negeri Selangor,
with address at Lot 96,
Section 4, Phase 2C,
Selangor Halal-Hub,
Pulau Indah, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
99 years
expiring on 24
February 2097
3 years 12 October
2011
63,079.9
sq. metres/
49,404.82
sq.metres
18 May
2018
101,910,104
* Held under H.S. (D) No.
98527, Bandar Shah
Alam, Daerah Petaling,
Negeri Selangor, with
address at Lot 20,
Jalan Pengapit 15/19,
40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 6 August
2074
41 years 28 May 2004 7,337.24
sq. metres/
6,417.91
sq. metres
23 May
2007
4,876,114
* Held under H.S. (D)
98490, P.T. No. 617,
Seksyen 16, Bandar
Shah Alam, Negeri
Selangor, with address
at Lot 4, Jalan Lada
Hitam 16/12A, 40000
Shah Alam, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 20 July
2094
31 years 28 June
1999
4,484
sq. metres/
3,149.43
sq. metres
24
September
1990
1,605,558
* Held under H.S. (D)
98500 for P.T. No. 714,
Seksyen 16, Bandar
Shah Alam, Negeri
Selangor, with address
at Lot 2A, Persiaran
Kemajuan, Seksyen
16, 40000 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of 99
years expiring
on 20 July
2094
31 years 25 May 2005 21,796
sq. metres/
3,584.91
sq. metres
7 May 1990 6,537,180
* Parcel No. 2F-41C with
address at 41C-2F,
Jalan Datuk Dagang
31, Taman Sentosa,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Master
Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of
Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul
Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 21 years 16 May 2003 67.85
sq. metres
27 March
2003
42,104
163
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
List of Properties
(cont’d)
Location / Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx.
Land
Area/
Built-up Area
Issuance of
Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Parcel No. 2B-41D with
address at 41D-2B,
Jalan Datuk Dagang
31, Taman Sentosa,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Master
Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of
Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul
Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 21 years 29 July 2003 67.85
sq.metres
27 March
2003
39,172
* Parcel No. 2F-31C with
address at 31C-2F,
Jalan Datuk Dagang
31, Taman Sentosa,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Master
Title H.S. (D) 56062 PT
59169 in the Mukim of
Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul
Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 21 years 16 May 2003 67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
42,104
* Parcel No. 2B-21D with
address at 21D-2B,
Jalan Datuk Dagang
31, Taman Sentosa,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Master
Title H.S. (D) 56057 PT
59164 in the Mukim of
Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul
Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 21 years 29 July 2003 67.85 sq.
metres
27 March
2003
39,172
164
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
List of Properties
(cont’d)
Location / Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx.
Land
Area/
Built-up Area
Issuance of
Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Shop Apartment
Parcel No. B3/3F with
address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park,
41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title
H.S. (D) 67208 Lot No.
P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District
of Klang, State of
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 20 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
37,196
* Shop Apartment
Parcel No. B4/3F with
address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title
H.S. (D) 67207 Lot No.
P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District
of Klang, State of
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 20 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
37,195
165
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
List of Properties
(cont’d)
Location / Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx.
Land
Area/
Built-up Area
Issuance of
Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
* Shop Apartment
Parcel No. D4/3F with
address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park,
41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title
H.S. (D) 67208 Lot No.
P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District
of Klang, State of
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 20 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
37,195
* Shop Apartment
Parcel No. D3/3F with
address at 55-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park,
41200 Klang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Held under Strara Title
H.S. (D) 67207 Lot No.
P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District
of Klang, State of
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 20 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
37,195
* Shop Apartment
Parcel No. D2/3F with
address at 57-3A,
Jalan Bendahara 13,
Taman Sri Sentosa,
Jaya Business Park,
41200 Klang, Selangor
Darul Ehsan
Held under Strata Title
H.S. (D) 67208 Lot No.
P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District
of Klang, State of
Selangor darul Ehsan
Shop
apartment
occupied as
staff hostel
Freehold 20 years 21 February
2001
69.52 sq.
metres
26 October
2004
37,196
166
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
List of Properties
(cont’d)
Location / Title details
Description/
Existing use
Tenure of
Lease
Approx.
age of
building
Date of
Acquisition
Approx.
Land
Area/
Built-up Area
Issuance of
Certificate
of Fitness
Net Book
Value
RM
** Industrial Land at 13,
Kexing Road North,
Nantong Economic
& Technology
Development Area
(“NETDA”), China
Held under Lot No.
03-10-(001)-338, Land
Registry No. 35.45-
92.10
Factory cum
office
Leasehold
interest for
a term of
50 years
expiring on
25 December
2056
11 years 26
December
2006
40,773.90 sq.
metres/16,000
sq. metres
N/A 17,692,554
* Held under Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
** Held under Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.
167
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Analysis on
Shareholdings
As per record of depositors as at 31 March 2021
Issued Share Capital : RM 179,759,880.00 comprising 359,519,760 ordinary shares
Class of Shares : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Less than 100 213 3.99 5,664 0.00
100 - 1,000 1,709 31.99 947,845 0.26
1,001 - 10,000 2,458 46.01 10,705,414 2.98
10,001 - 100,000 808 15.12 23,671,973 6.58
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 151 2.83 148,923,482 41.42
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.06 175,265,382 48.76
Total 5,342 100.00 359,519,760 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
as per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 31 March 2021
Direct Indirect
Name of Substantial Shareholders
No. of
Shares %
No. of
Shares %
1. Gan Thiam Chai 87,945,148 24.46 9,464,149* 2.63
2. VG Trustee Limited (as Trustee of the
Narvee Foundation)
72,614,200 20.20 – –
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 6.25 1,546,300** 0.43
4. Kwan Sok Kay 17,724,405 4.93 9,464,149* 2.63
5. Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha 3,250,000 0.90 72,614,200*** 20.20
* Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), held through his/her children,
namely Gan Ka Bien, Gan Ka Hui and Gan Ka Ooi who holds 4,013,849, 2,700,300 and 2,750,000 ordinary shares respectively,
representing a total of 2.632% in the shareholdings of the Company.
** Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng
Yeow, Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 444,000, 344,000, 344,300, 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his
spouse, Lam Saw Kuan who holds 70,000 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.43% in the shareholdings of the Company.
*** Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Act by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Narvee Foundation.
168
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Analysis on Shareholdings
As per record of depositors as at 31 March 2021
(cont’d)
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Register of Directors’ shareholdings as at 31 March 2021
Direct Indirect
Name of Directors
No. of
Shares %
No. of
Shares %
1. Gan Thiam Chai 87,945,148 24.46 9,464,149* 2.63
2. Kwan Sok Kay 17,724,405 4.93 9,464,149* 2.63
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,462,133 6.25 1,546,300** 0.43
4. Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 1.12 – –
5. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,637,028 2.12 – –
6. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor – – – –
7. Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud – – – –
8. Eugene Hon Kah Weng – – – –
* Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his/her children, namely Gan Ka Bien, Gan
Ka Hui and Gan Ka Ooi who holds 4,013,849, 2,700,300 and 2,750,000 ordinary shares respectively, representing a total of
2.632% in the shareholdings of the Company.
** Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng
Yeow, Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 444,000, 344,000, 344,300, 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his
spouse, Lam Saw Kuan who holds 70,000 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.43% in the shareholdings of the Company.
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
as at 31 March 2021
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %
1. Gan Thiam Chai 80,617,582 22.42
2. Maybank Securities Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt AN for VG Trustee Limited (Narvee F’dation)
72,614,200 20.20
3. Gan Thiam Hock 22,033,600 6.13
4. Kwan Sok Kay 14,163,405 3.94
5. Wu, Meng-Che 10,230,000 2.85
6. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Strategic Smallcap Fund
7,613,466 2.12
7. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Gan Thiam Chai (PB)
7,327,566 2.04
8. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim 7,317,028 2.04
9. Kong Poh Yin 5,456,500 1.52
10. Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) 4,707,933 1.31
11. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Wu Chung Chen
4,520,000 1.26
169
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS (Cont’d)
as at 31 March 2021
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares %
12. Gan Ka Bien 4,013,849 1.12
13. Kwan Sok Kay 3,561,000 0.99
14. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
PB Smallcap Growth Fund
3,376,766 0.94
15. Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha 3,250,000 0.90
16. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt AN for UBS AG Singapore (Foreign)
3,217,500 0.89
17. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Chen Tsai Tien
2,792,466 0.78
18. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
ASN Equity 2
2,782,300 0.77
19. Gan Ka Ooi 2,750,000 0.76
20. Gan Ka Hui 2,700,300 0.75
21. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Chiang Peter
2,604,000 0.72
22. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Growth Balanced Fund
2,399,533 0.67
23. Maybank Securities Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Shah Kamal Kant Zaverchand
2,168,382 0.60
24. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
PB Growth Fund
2,117,366 0.59
25. HLIB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Hong Leong Bank Bhd for Wu Chia Lung
2,051,682 0.57
26. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Select Treasures Equity Fund
1,987,400 0.55
27. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Emerging Opportunities Fund
1,871,200 0.52
28. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
ASN Equity 5
1,781,600 0.50
29. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Etiqa Life Insurance Berhad (Prem Equity)
1,435,000 0.40
30. Lam Kai Chen 1,160,000 0.32
Total 284,621,624 79.17
Analysis on Shareholdings
As per record of depositors as at 31 March 2021
(cont’d)
170
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
NOTICE OF THE SEVENTEENTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad will be
conducted virtually for the purpose of considering and if thought fit, passing with or without modifications the resolutions
setting out in this notice.
Meeting Platform : https://tiih.online
Day and Date : Thursday, 10 June 2021
Time : 10.30 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : Tricor Business Centre, Manuka 2 & 3 Meeting Room Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8 Jalan Kerinchi 59200 Kuala
Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan
Mode of Communication : Shareholders may submit questions to the Board of Directors prior to the 17th AGM
via Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online by selecting “e-Services’’ to login,
pose questions and submit electronically not later than 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday, 8 June
2021 or to use the query box to transmit questions to Board of Directors via Remote
Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities during live streaming
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Please refer to Note 1
of the Explanatory Notes
2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the
Company of up to RM1 Million for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
Ordinary Resolution 1
3. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring under Clause 115(1) of the
Constitution of the Company:
(i) Gan Thiam Chai
(ii) Gan Thiam Hock
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
4. To re-elect the following Director who is retiring under Clause 122 of the
Constitution of the Company:
(i) Gan Ka Bien Ordinary Resolution 4
5. To re-appoint Messrs. RSM Malaysia as Auditors of the Company and to authorise
the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 5
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:
6. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the following related parties
(“Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate”):
(i) Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited
(ii) MH Delight Sdn Bhd
(iii) Hot & Roll Sdn Bhd
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
171
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
(Collectively referred to as “Related Parties”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company, to enter and give
effect to the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature
(hereinafter to be referred to as “Recurrent Transactions”) with the above Related
Parties as stated in Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April
2021 which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations subject
further to the following:
(i) the Recurrent Transactions contemplated are in the ordinary course of
business and on terms which are not more favourable to Related Parties
than those generally available to the public, and are not to the detriment
of the minority shareholders;
(ii) the approval is subject to annual renewal and shall only continue to be in
force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the
forthcoming AGM of the Company at which the Proposed Renewal
of Shareholders’ Mandate is approved, at which time it will lapse
unless by a resolution passed at the AGM the mandate is again
renewed;
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the
Company after the date is required to be held pursuant to Section
340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016 (“Act”) (but shall not extend to
such extensions as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of
the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in
general meeting,
whichever is the earlier; and
(iii) the disclosure of the breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent
Transactions conducted pursuant to the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate in the Annual Report of the Company based on
the following information:
(a) the type of Recurrent Transactions entered into; and
(b) the names of the Related Parties involved in each type of the
Recurrent Transactions entered into and their relationship with the
Company.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do
all acts and things to give full effect to the Recurrent Transactions contemplated
and/or authorised by this resolution, as the Directors of the Company, in their
absolute discretion, deem fit.”
172
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
7. Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue
shares
“THAT pursuant to Section 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are
hereby authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the
conclusion of the next AGM of the Company upon such terms and conditions
and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem
fit provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not exceed
ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company
(excluding treasury shares, if any) at the time of issue, subject to the Constitution
of the Company and approval of all the relevant regulatory bodies being obtained
for such allotment and issue.”
Ordinary Resolution 9
8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary
Shares
“THAT subject to the Act, the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
and the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities
(if any), the Company be and is hereby authorised to utilise an amount not
exceeding the audited retained profits as at 31 December 2020 to purchase
such amount of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share
Buy-Back Authority”) as may be determined by the Directors of the Company
from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions
as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of the Company
provided that the aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held pursuant
to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares of the Company.
THAT an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained profits be allocated by
the Company for the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority.
THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company to decide
at their absolute discretion to either retain the shares so purchased as treasury
shares (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to cancel the shares so
purchased and if retained as treasury shares, may resell the treasury shares
and/or to distribute them as share dividend and/or subsequently cancel them.
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
upon the passing of this resolution and will expire at:-
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, at which time the said
authority will lapse unless by an ordinary resolution passed at a general
meeting of the Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally
or subject to conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
is required by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
in a general meeting;
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
173
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
whichever occurs first, but not so as to prejudice the completion of the
purchase(s) by the Company before the aforesaid expiry date and in any event,
in accordance with the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa Securities
and/or any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any).
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to take all steps
necessary to implement, complete and do all such acts and things (including
executing all such documents as may be required) as they may consider
expedient or necessary to give effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-
Back Authority as may be agreed or allowed by any relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authority.” Ordinary Resolution 10
9. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAI YIT CHAN (MAICSA 7009143)
SSM PC No.: 202008001023
TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513)
SSM PC No.: 202008001075
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 30 April 2021
EXPLANATORY NOTES:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements
Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require
a formal approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not
put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 - Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 proposed, if passed, will empower the Directors from the date of the 17th
AGM, to deal with the related party transactions involving recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature
which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations. These recurrent related party transactions are in
the ordinary course of business and are on terms not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally
available to the public and not to the detriment of the minority shareholders.
This authority unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company and
subject always to provision (ii) of the resolution.
For further information on Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30
April 2021 accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
174
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3. Ordinary Resolution 9 - Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue
shares
The Ordinary Resolution 9 proposed under item 7 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general
mandate for issuance of shares by the Company under Section 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed,
will provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the
Company up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose
of funding the working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising
from and cost involved in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the shareholders for such issuance
of shares. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next
AGM.
At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after
the general mandate is sought, the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.
The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders
at the previous AGM.
4. Ordinary Resolution 10 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary
Shares
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 10, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to take all such
steps as are necessary or expedient to implement, finalise, complete and/or to effect the purchase(s) of shares
by the Company as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company. The authority
will, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue to be in force until the conclusion of
the next AGM of the Company or the expiry of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
by law to be held.
For further information on Ordinary Resolution 10, please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30 April
2021 accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Notes:
1. The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Act which requires the
Chairman of the Meeting to be at the main venue of the meeting. No shareholders/proxy(ies) from the public
will be physically present at the Broadcast venue.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed
texts) and vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 17th AGM using the Remote Participation and Voting
facilities (“RPV”) provided by the Special Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. via its TIIH
Online website at https://tiih.online.
Please read these Notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Details on 17th AGM
in order to participate remotely via RPV.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV, the Company shall be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as
at 2 June 2021. Only a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate
in this AGM via RPV.
3. A member entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of
a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need
not be a member of the Company.
4. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and
the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each
proxy.
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
175
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
5. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised
nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of
Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
6. A member who has appointed a proxy or attorney or authorised representative to participate at the 17th AGM via
RPV must request his/her proxy or attorney or authorised representative to register himself/herself for RPV via
TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Procedures for RPV can be found in the Administrative Details on 17th
AGM.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner
and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding
the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the
Special Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Special Registrar of the Company via TIIH
Online at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the Administrative Details on the procedures for electronic
lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
9. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Tuesday, 8 June 2021 at 10.30 a.m.
10. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the
Special Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32,
Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar
South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment
proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or
in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
11. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate
of appointment of authorised representative with the Special Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing
House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South,
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3,
Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the
corporate member is incorporated.
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
176
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
12. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions
set out in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM
and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the
member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the
Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and
the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including
any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules,
regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal
data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained
the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or
its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the
member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as
a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
Notice of the Seventeenth Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
177
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Administrative Details
Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”)
Date : Thursday, 10 June 2021
Time : 10.30 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : Tricor Business Centre
Manuka 2 & 3 Meeting Room
Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Precautionary Measures Against the Coronavirus Disease (“COVID-19”)
• The Securities Commission Malaysia (“SC”) had, on 13 January 2021, announced that capital market entities
supervised, licensed or registered by the SC shall operate in accordance with the applicable Standard Operating
Procedures (“SOPs) issued by the authorities during the Emergency Ordinance and various forms of Movement
Control Order (“MCO”). The SC had, on 12 January 2021, issued a revised Guidance Note on the Conduct of
General Meetings for Listed Issuers (“SC Guidance Note”) which states that only fully virtual meetings will be
allowed during MCO and Conditional MCO, subject to the requirements under the prevailing and applicable
SOPs.
• In line with the Government’s directive and SC Guidance Note above to curb the spread of COVID-19, the
Company will conduct the 17th AGM on a virtual basis through live streaming and online remote voting via
Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities which are available on Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn Bhd’s (“Tricor”) TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online.
• The venue of the 17th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act
2016 which requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be at the main venue of the meeting. No shareholders/
proxy(ies) from the public will be physically present at the meeting venue.
• We strongly encourage you to attend the 17th AGM via the RPV facilities. You may also consider appointing
the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy to attend and vote on your behalf at the 17th AGM.
• Due to the constant evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements
of our 17th AGM at short notice. Kindly check the Company’s website or announcements for the latest updates
on the status of the 17th AGM.
• The Company will continue to observe the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and will take all relevant
precautionary measures as advised.
Remote Participation and Voting
• The RPV facilities are available on Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online.
• Shareholders are to attend, speak (in the form of real time submission of typed texts) and vote (collectively,
“participate”) remotely at the AGM using RPV facilities from Tricor.
• Kindly refer to Procedures for RPV as set out below for the requirements and procedures.
Procedures to Remote Participation and Voting via RPV Facilities
• Please read and follow the procedures below to engage in remote participation through live streaming and online
remote voting at the 17th AGM using the RPV facilities:
178
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Before the 17th AGM Day
Procedure Action
i Register as a
user with TIIH
Online (applicable
for individual
shareholders only)
• Using your computer, access to website at https://tiih.online. Register as a user under
the “e-Services”, select “Create Account by Individual Holder”. Please refer to the
tutorial guide posted on the homepage for assistance.
• Registration as a user will be approved within one (1) working day and you will be
notified via e-mail.
• Please allow sufficient time for approval of new user of TIIH Online.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register again. You
will receive an e-mail from Tricor to notify you that the remote participation for the
17th AGM is available for registration at TIIH Online.
ii Submit your
request to attend
17th AGM remotely
• Registration is open from Friday, 30 April 2021 until the day of 17th AGM Thursday, 10
June 2021. Shareholder(s) or proxy(ies) or corporate representative(s) or attorney(s) are
required to pre-register their attendance for the 17th AGM to ascertain their eligibility
to participate the 17th AGM using the RPV.
• Login with your user ID and password and select the corporate event:
(Registration) KAWAN 17th AGM
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select “Register for Remote Participation and Voting”.
• Review your registration and proceed to register.
• System will send an e-mail to notify that your registration for remote participation is
received and will be verified.
• After verification of your registration against the Record of Depositors as at 2 June
2021, the TIIH system will, on or after 8 June 2021, send you an e-mail to approve
or reject your registration for remote participation.
(Note: Please ensure to allow sufficient time required for the approval as a new user of
TIIH Online as well as the registration for RPV in order that you can login to TIIH Online
and participate the 17th AGM remotely).
On the 17th AGM Day
Procedure Action
i. Login to TIIH
Online
• Login with your user ID and password for remote participation at the 17th AGM at any
time from 10.00 a.m. i.e. 30 minutes before the commencement of meeting at 10.30
a.m. on Thursday, 10 June 2021.
ii. Participate through
Live Streaming
• Select the corporate event:
(Live Stream Meeting) KAWAN 17th AGM to engage in the proceedings of the 17th
AGM remotely.
• If you have any question for the Chairman/Board, you may use the query box to
transmit your question. The Chairman/Board will try to respond to questions submitted
by remote participants during the 17th AGM. If there is time constraint, the responses
will be e-mailed to you at the earliest possible, after the meeting.
• Take note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth and
stability of the internet connection at the location of the remote participants.
Administrative Details Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”)
(cont’d)
179
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
On the 17th AGM Day (continued)
Procedure Action
iii. Online remote
voting
• Voting session commences from 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, 10 June 2021 until a time
when the Chairman announces the end of the session.
• Select the corporate event:
(Remote Voting) KAWAN 17th AGM or if you are on the live stream meeting page,
you can select “GO TO REMOTE VOTING PAGE” button below the Query Box.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select the CDS account that represents your shareholdings.
• Indicate your votes for the resolutions that are tabled for voting.
• Confirm and submit your votes.
iv. End of remote
participation
• Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the conclusion of the 17th AGM, the
Live Streaming will end.
Note to users of the RPV facilities:
• Should your registration for RPV be approved, we will make available to you the rights to join the live stream
meeting and to vote remotely. Your login to TIIH Online on the day of meeting will indicate your presence at the
virtual meeting.
• The quality of your connection to the live broadcast is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet
at your location and the device you use.
• In the event you encounter any issues with logging-in, connection to the live stream meeting or online voting on
the meeting day, kindly call Tricor Help Line at 011-40805616 / 011-40803168 / 011-40803169 / 011-40803170
for assistance or e-mail to tiih.online@my.tricorglobal.com for assistance.
Entitlement to Participate and Appointment of Proxy
• Only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 2 June 2021 shall be eligible to attend,
speak and vote at the 17th AGM or appoint a proxy(ies) and/or the Chairman of the Meeting to attend and vote
on his/her behalf.
• In view that the 17th AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis, a member can appoint the Chairman of the
Meeting as his/her proxy and indicate the voting instruction in the Form of Proxy.
• If you wish to participate in the 17th AGM yourself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy for the 17th AGM.
You will not be allowed to participate in the 17th AGM together with a proxy appointed by you.
• Accordingly, proxy forms and/or documents relating to the appointment of proxy/corporate representative/attorney
for the 17th AGM whether in hard copy or by electronic means shall be deposited or submitted in the following
manner not later than Tuesday, 8 June 2021 at 10.30 a.m:
(a) In Hard copy:
(i) By hand or post: to the office of the Special Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn
Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or its Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur;
(ii) By fax at 03-2783 9222 or e-mail to is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Administrative Details Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”)
(cont’d)
180
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
(b) By Electronic form:
All shareholders can have the option to submit proxy forms electronically via TIIH Online and the steps to
submit are summarised below:
Procedure Action
1. Steps for Individual Shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
• Using your computer, please access the website at https://tiih.online. Register
as a user under the “e-Services”. Please refer to the tutorial guide posted on
the homepage for assistance.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register again.
Proceed with
submission of
form of proxy
• After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the Company, login with your user
name (i.e. email address) and password.
• Select the corporate event: KAWAN 17th AGM-“Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms and Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number of shares for your
proxy(s) to vote on your behalf.
• Appoint your proxy/(ies) and insert the required details of your proxy/(ies) or
appoint Chairman as your proxy.
• Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST, otherwise your proxy will
decide on your votes.
• Review and confirm your proxy(s) appointment.
• Print the form of proxy for your record.
2. Steps for corporation or institutional shareholders
Register as a User
with TIIH Online
• Access TIIH Online at https://tiih.online
• Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated representative of the corporation
or institutional shareholder selects “Create Corporate Holder Account”.
• Complete the registration form and upload the required documents.
• Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by email within 1 to 2
working days.
• Proceed to activate your account with the temporary password given in the
email and re-set your own password.
Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional shareholder must register
as a user first in accordance with the above steps before he/she can subscribe
to this corporate holder electronic proxy submission. Please contact our Special
Registrar if you need clarifications on the user registration.
Proceed with
submission of
form of proxy
• Login to TIIH Online at https://tiih.online
• Select the corporate event: “KAWAN 17th AGM: Submission of Proxy Form”
• Read and Agree to the Terms & Conditions and Declaration.
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” in
accordance with the Guidance Note set therein.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
• Submit the proxy appointment file
• Login to TIIH Online, select corporate event: “KAWAN 17th AGM: Submission
of Proxy Form”
• Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
• Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
• Print the confirmation report of your submission for your record.
Administrative Details Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”)
(cont’d)
181
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
POLL VOTING
The voting at the 17th AGM will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Company has appointed Tricor as Poll Administrator to conduct
the poll by way of electronic voting (e-voting).
Shareholders or proxy(es) or corporate representative(s) or attorney(s) can proceed to vote on the resolutions at any time
from the commencement of the 17th AGM at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday, 10 June 2021 but before the end of the voting
session which will be announced by the Chairman of the meeting. Kindly refer to item (e) of the above Procedures for
RPV for guidance on how to vote remotely from TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online.
Upon completion of the voting session for the 17th AGM, the Scrutineers will verify the poll results followed by the
Chairman’s declaration whether the resolutions are duly passed.
PRE-MEETING SUBMISSION OF QUESTION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Shareholders may submit questions for the Board in advance of the 17th AGM via Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://
tiih.online by selecting “e-Services” to login, pose questions and submit electronically no later than Tuesday, 8 June
2021 at 10.30 a.m.. The Board will endeavor to answer the questions received at the AGM.
DOOR GIFT/FOOD VOUCHER
There will be no door gifts or food vouchers for attending the 17th AGM.
NO RECORDING OR PHOTOGRAPHY
Unauthorized recording and photography are strictly prohibited at the 17th AGM.
ENQUIRY
If you have any enquiries on the above, please contact the following persons during office hours on Mondays to Fridays
from 9.00 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. (except on public holidays):
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
General Line : +603-2783 9299
Fax Number : +603-2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Contact persons : Encik Ahmad Syafiq bin Shaharuddin
		 Encik Zulhafri bin Abdul Rahman
Administrative Details Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”)
(cont’d)
This page has been intentionally left blank
✄
No. of Shares
CDS account No.
PROXY FORM
I/We, .................................................................................................... (NRIC No./Company No. .................................................... )
of........................................................................................................................................................................................................
and telephone no............................................................................... being a member of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD hereby appoint
...................................................................................................................................... (NRIC No..................................................... )
of..........................................................................................or and him/her,......................................................................................
(NRIC No................................................... ) of....................................................................................................................................
or failing *him/her, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/our proxy(ies) to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Seventeenth
Annual General Meeting (“17th AGM”) of the Company which will be conducted entirely through live streaming from the broadcast
venue at Tricor Business Centre, Manuka 2 & 3 Meeting Room, Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8 Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Thursday,
10 June 2021 at 10.30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof. *I/We indicate with an “X” in the spaces below how *I/We wish *my/
our vote to be cast.
NO RESOLUTIONS FOR AGAINST
1. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors
of the Company of up to RM1 Million for the financial year ending
31 December 2021
Ordinary Resolution 1
2. Re-election of Gan Thiam Chai Ordinary Resolution 2
3. Re-election of Gan Thiam Hock Ordinary Resolution 3
4. Re-election of Gan Ka Bien Ordinary Resolution 4
5. Re-appointment of Messrs. RSM Malaysia as Auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration
Ordinary Resolution 5
6. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with
Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited
Ordinary Resolution 6
7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with
MH Delight Sdn Bhd
Ordinary Resolution 7
8. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with
Hot & Roll Sdn Bhd
Ordinary Resolution 8
9. Authority under Section 75 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016
for the Directors to allot and issue shares
Ordinary Resolution 9
10. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its
own Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Resolution 10
Subject to the abovestated voting instructions, *my/our proxy may vote or abstain from voting on any resolutions as *he/*she/*they
may think fit.
*  to delete where applicable
*  please delete the words “THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING” if you wish to appoint other person(s) to beyourproxy/proxies.
The proportion of my/our shareholdings to be represented by *my/our proxies are as follows: -
First Proxy %
Second Proxy %
100%
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
http://www.kawanfood.com
Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
If appointment of proxy is under hand
....................................................................
Signed by *individual member/*officer or
attorney of member/*authorised nominee
of ........................ (beneficial owner)
No of shares held:............................
.........................................................
Securities Account No:....................
.........................................................
(CDS Account No.) (Compulsory)
Date :
The proportions of my/our holding
to be represented by my/our
proxies are as follows: -
First Proxy
No. of Shares: .................................
Percentage: ............................... .%
*in favour of/against the resolution
Second Proxy
No. of Shares: .................................
Percentage: ............................... .%
*in favour of/against the resolution
If appointment of proxy is under seal
The Common Seal of .................................
...…………………………….. was hereto
affixed in accordance with its Constitution
in the presence of:-
.................... ................................................
Director          Director/Secretary
in its capacity as *member/*attorney of
member/ *authorised nominee of
......................................................................
(beneficial owner)
Seal
No of shares held: ...........................
Securities Account No: ...................
.........................................................
(CDS Account No.) (Compulsory)
Date:
_______________________________________________
Signature/Common Seal
Date: ______________________
Contact No.: ______________________
IMPORTANT NOTES:
1. The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Act which requires the Chairman
of the Meeting to be at the main venue of the meeting. No shareholders/proxy(ies) from the public will be physically
present at the Broadcast venue.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and
vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 17th AGM using the Remote Participation and Voting facilities (“RPV”)
provided by the Special Registrar, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. via its TIIH Online website at
https://tiih.online.
Please read these Notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Details on 17th AGM in order
to participate remotely via RPV.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 2 June 2021.
Only a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV.
3. A member entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a
corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a
member of the Company.
4. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the
appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
5. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central
Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories
Act.
6. A member who has appointed a proxy or attorney or authorised representative to participate at the 17th AGM via RPV
must request his/her proxy or attorney or authorised representative to register himself/herself for RPV via TIIH Online
website at https://tiih.online. Procedures for RPV can be found in the Administrative Details on 17th AGM.
7. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and
must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM
or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
a. In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Special
Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32,
Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
b. By electronic means
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Special Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online at
https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the Administrative Details on the procedures for electronic lodgement
of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
9. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Tuesday, 8 June 2021 at 10.30 a.m.
10. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Special
Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the
Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or
adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of
attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements
in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
11. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of
appointment of authorised representative with the Special Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment
of authorised representative should be executed in the following manner:
a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should
be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate
member is incorporated.
12. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out
in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.
Personal Data Privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and /or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal
data privacy terms set out in the Notice of AGM dated 30 April 2021.		
Fold This Flap For Sealing
2nd Fold Here
1st Fold Here
AFFIX
STAMP
The Special Registrar
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD.
Registration No.:197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
✄
