LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
8
BOARD OF DIRECTORS’
PROFILE
Mohd Rasli bin Muda (“En. Rasli”)
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 61
En. Rasli was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2019 as an Independent Non-Executive Chairman. He is also
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee of the
Company.
He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics (Applied Economics) from the University of Malaya.
En. Rasli started his career in 1984 with the Malaysian Investment Development Authority (“MIDA”), a government agency
as an economist and was responsible for the promotion and coordination of industrial development in Malaysia. During
his tenure with MIDA, he has served in various industries divisions and offices amongst others such as:
• Director of MIDA Terengganu State Office
• Director of MIDA (Consul Investment, Consulate General of Malaysia), Los Angeles, USA. He was responsible for
promoting and facilitating Foreign Direct Investments from the West Coast of the USA to Malaysia
• Director, Corporate Management Services Division
• Director, Business & Professional Services Division
• Director, Food Technology and Resource Based Industries Division
En. Rasli retired from MIDA in August 2019 after serving for 34 years.
He attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 September 2022 (“FYE 2022”).
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
9
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan (“Datuk Wong”)
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 54
Datuk Wong was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2019 as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Deputy
Chairman and re-designated as the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman on 30 April 2020. He is
the major shareholder of the company. He is also a member of Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee of the
Company.
Datuk Wong graduated with a Diploma in Civil Engineering from the Federal Institute of Technology (“FIT”) in 1990.
Upon graduating, Datuk Wong joined his family’s construction business erecting factory buildings and warehouses for
a public listed paper mill group of companies. In 1995, he steered the construction company into various residential,
commercial and industrial development projects in Selangor and Penang. He has more than 30 years of experience in the
construction and development industry.
Apart from construction activities, he also owns businesses in various industries such as trading, recycling and paper roll
rewinding services, transportation and workshop, and Food & Beverage (“F&B”).
Datuk Wong is currently the Group Managing Director of Sing Foong Niap Group of Companies. He is also the controlling
shareholder and Managing Director of Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd., a substantial shareholder of Lotus KFM Berhad. Datuk
Wong currently sits on the Board of MESB Berhad, as well as several private limited companies.
He attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
Datuk Wong is the father of Mr. Wong Yau Min, the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
10
Lee Wai Fun (“Ms. Lee”)
Executive Director cum Chief Executive Officer
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Female
Age : 52
Ms. Lee was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2019 as an Executive Director cum Chief Executive Officer of the
Company.
Ms. Lee is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) and the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (“MIA”).
She started her career in the management accounting field in 1994 and has since garnered over 25 years of experience
in finance, administration and management functions from several industries such as manufacturing, trading, recycling,
construction & development, transportation and F&B.
Ms. Lee joined Sing Foong Niap Group as Finance Manager in 2007 and was promoted to Group General Manager in
2012. She is responsible for overseeing the management and business operations of Sing Fong Niap Group.
In 2009, she co-founded Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd., a trading company that imports and distributes tapioca starch, corn
starch and coal to local food processing and manufacturing-based companies. In August 2016, she helped establish a
Recycling Division by acquiring four (4) recycling companies and one (1) paper roll rewinding services company. Ms. Lee
is currently the Executive Director of Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd. and sits on the board of several private limited companies.
She attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
11
Low Koon Min (“Ms. Low”)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Female
Age : 51
Ms. Low was appointed to the Board on 28 January 2019, as an Independent Non-Executive Director. She is also the
Chairperson of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee of the
Company.
Ms. Low is a member of the CIMA and MIA.
Ms. Low started her career as a Finance Manager at Mitsumi Electric Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of Mistsumi Electric Co.
Ltd. (a public listed company in Japan). In 1998, Ms. Low joined Mattel Southeast Asia Pte. Ltd. and moved to Mattel
Southeast Asia (Regional Office) Sdn. Bhd. in 2002 as a Financial Specialist. Mattel is a toy company listed on the Nasdaq
Stock Exchange of the United States of America.
In 2011, Ms. Low joined Lee Ong & Partners, a legal firm as an Office Manager. She is also the Company Secretary to IWB
Consultancy Sdn. Bhd., a Selangor state owned company to raise woman's socio-economy and capability of women in
leadership and entrepreneurship.
Ms. Low attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
12
Yau Ming Teck (“Mr. Yau”)
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 51
Mr. Yau was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2019 as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. He is also a
member of the Nomination Committee of the Company.
Mr. Yau graduated from Monash University, Melbourne with an Economics Degree in 1993. He is a qualified Certified
Practicing Accountant (“CPA”) of CPA Australia and a Chartered Accountant of MIA.
He started his career in 1994 with Coopers & Lybrand, Insolvency & Corporate Division and handles a wide portfolio of
clients with diverse backgrounds and industries during his three years with the firm.
In 1996, he joined a Malaysian Main Board listed company as an Executive, Special Projects and last served as a Financial
Controller of another Main Board public listed company in Bursa Securities in 2003. During his tenure with the public
listed companies, he had predominantly taken charge of various corporate exercises and his skill in the area of corporate
finance, financial management and strategic planning honed over 15 years brought him to his private practice in the year
2004. He has expertise in corporate and financial advisory in the areas of corporate finance, mergers & acquisitions and
restructuring exercises with a focus on business in the People’s Republic of China, Singapore and Australia.
Mr. Yau is a substantial shareholder of the Company. Mr. Yau currently sits on the Board of UMS-Neiken Group Berhad
and HLT Global Berhad, both listed on the Main Market and ACE Market of Bursa Securities respectively. He also serves
as a director in several private limited companies.
He attended three (3) out of four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
13
Chia Weng Lock (“Mr. Chia”)
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 59
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
Mr. Chia was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2020 as an Executive Vice President and re-designated as the Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 November 2022.
Mr. Chia earned a Diploma in Computing and graduated from Tunku Abdul Rahman College in 1983.
Mr. Chia started his career in the Information Technology field in May 1985 and has served more than 33 years with The
Dow Chemical Company, a Fortune-500 company, headquartered in the US and served in various business and functional
roles. He has played an important role in carrying out Dow’s strategy to grow its market-driven portfolio businesses in
partnership with its customers.
Mr. Chia is the controlling shareholder and Director of CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd., a substantial shareholder of the Company.
He attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
14
Yap Ee Seong (“Mr. Yap”)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 55
Mr. Yap was appointed to the Board on 3 August 2020 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr. Yap is a Chartered Accountant registered with the MIA.
He has more than 26 years of experience in audit, tax, financial, operational and administration experience in trading,
manufacturing, engineering, credit and charge cards, property development, commercial and retail property investment
and hospitality industries. Mr. Yap currently works as an Executive Vice President, Infrastructure and Energy at Daya
Materials Berhad.
Mr. Yap currently sits in the Board of Scope Industries Berhad.
He attended all four (4) Board meetings held during the FYE 2022.
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
15
Wong Yau Min (“Mr. Wong”)
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 30
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
Mr. Wong was appointed to the Board on 30 September 2022 as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr. Wong pursued his tertiary studies at Curtin University in Perth, Australia beginning with an Advance Diploma in Civil
Engineering and graduating with a Bachelor degree in Applied Science (Construction Management) in 2019.
Mr. Wong developed his interests and knowledge in the buildings and construction field by helping in the family’s
construction business i.e., Sing Foong Niap Engineering Sdn Bhd (“Sing Foong Niap”). Upon graduation in 2020, he
joined Sing Foong Niap as the Project Engineer and later was promoted to Operations Manager in 2022.
He currently oversees a multi-million project for the construction of the largest paper mill factory in Malaysia with a land
size area of 300 acres located in Banting. On 23 June 2021, he was appointed as a Director of LE Plantation Sdn Bhd
(“LEP”), overseeing plantation projects in Perak and Kelantan and he is also a shareholder of LEP.
Mr. Wong is the son of Datuk Wong Sak Kuan, a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director/ Vice Chairman and major
shareholder of the Company.
Mr. Wong was appointed on 30 September 2022, hence he did not attend any Board Meetings held during the FYE 2022.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
16
Lim Lian Chee (“Mr. Lim”)
Executive Director
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 61
Board of Directors’ Profile
(cont'd)
Notes:-
1. Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors have family relationship with other Directors and/or major
shareholders of the Company.
2. None of the Directors have any conflict of interests with the Company.
3. None of the Directors have been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years or been imposed on any public
sanction or penalty by relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 September 2022, other than for
traffic offences (if any).
4. Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors have any other directorship in public companies and listed issues.
Mr. Lim was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2022 as an Executive Director.
Mr. Lim holds a Master in Business Administration and Graduate Diploma in Management from University of Southern
Queensland.
He has more than 39 years of banking experience with OCBC Bank Berhad (“OCBC Bank”) and held several senior
positions with responsibilities for strategy, execution and performance. He Joined OCBC Bank in 1983, served in various
capacities, including as Regional Manager, Head of Business Banking, Head of Consumer Banking, Head of Credit
& Senior Manager for many branches. Mr. Lim had retired from OCBC Bank in September 2022 from the position of
Managing Director for Commercial Banking in charge of Southern Region2 & East Coast.
Mr. Lim was appointed on 3 October 2022, hence he did not attend any Board Meetings held during the FYE 2022.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
17
KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILE
Notes:-
1. None of the key senior management personnel have any directorship in public companies and listed issuers.
2. None of the key senior management personnel have any family relationship with any Directors and/or major
shareholders of the Comapany except for the following: -
• Mr. Wong Yu Perng is the son of Datuk Wong Sak Kuan, a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice
Chairman and major shareholder of the Company.
3. None of the key senior management personnel have any conflict of interest with the Company.
4. None of the key senior management personnel have been convicted of any offences in the past five (5) years or
been imposed on any public sanction or penalty by relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
September 2022, other than traffic offence (if any).
Wong Yu Perng
Operation Manager
Ng Yoke Yeun
Accounts Manager
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Male
Age : 29
Nationality : Malaysian
Gender : Female
Age : 36
Wong Yu Perng is the Operation Manager of the Company.
He obtained his Degree in International Business
Management from Asia Pacific University of Technology
& Innovation in 2016. After that, he pursued his Master in
International Business Management at the University of
Tasmania in Australia and graduated in 2018. He started
his first job in LKFM as a sales executive. After that, he
has promoted to the Head of Purchasing Department.
In 2020, he enrolled the Occupational Safety and Health
Coordinator to implement a safer workplace around the
Flour Mills. Due to his outstanding leadership skills and
performance, he was further promoted as Operation
Manager in December 2020 and will manage and take care
of the daily operation of the Flour Mills. Subsequently, he
was promoted to Technical Deputy General Manager in
January 2022.
NgYokeYeun istheAccountsManageroftheCompany.She
obtained her Advanced Diploma in Financial Accounting in
2008 from Tunku Abdul Rahman College. She is a member
of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
(“ACCA”) and Malaysia Institute of Accountants since 2015.
She started her career with a small accounting firm since
year 2008 followed by an international medium accounting
firm, Ecovis AHL PLT, where she was involved in statutory
audit of companies in various industries. In September
2016, she joined Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd. and transferred
to LKFM as Accountant in December 2019. She is primarily
responsible for the accounting functions of the Group. In
December 2021, she was promoted to Accounts Manager.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
18
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
Lotus KFM Berhad (“LKFM” or “the Group”) recognises the importance of the business as a vital role to bring impactful
sustainable change and its responsibility not only towards its stakeholders but also to the wider community it operates.
Mindful of this, LKFM emphasizes on the necessity to assess the impact its operations and activities have on the economy,
environment and society, thereby influencing the approach LKFM operates its business by embracing better practices
that are sustainable to realise the Group’s Economic, Environmental and Social (“EES”) development agenda.
We prepared this sustainability statement, not only to satisfy Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) in
its Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirement”) but also as a responsible corporate citizen who practices
transparency in corporate governance.
This Statement, which is prepared in compliance with the Listing Requirement of Bursa Securities, expresses how
sustainability matters that are significant to the Group and its stakeholders are identified and managed.
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is aware of its responsibilities towards business sustainability and while putting greater
emphasis on balancing economic viability with the preservation of the environment and social responsibility.
With a view of embedding sustainability elements in its work culture, the Board has been formulating strategies to foster
the sustainable use of scarce resources and the adoption of responsible business practices that include good governance,
clear transparency and proper employee development.
Sustainability Strategy
The Board that determines the sustainability strategy provides oversight of our corporate sustainability policies and
performance. Senior Management oversees the implementation of the Company’s sustainability approach and ensures
that key targets are being met.
The Board is committed to play a positive role in its corporate responsibility initiatives to create and add value towards
the environment, the work place, the community and the market place.
For the Economic aspect, the Company targets to strengthen the financial and deliver sustainable returns to its
shareholders.
For the Environment aspect, the Company targets to mitigate any negative environmental impact and conserve the
surrounding environment.
For the Social aspect, the Company targets to foster a robust, diverse and capable workforce, and create a safe workplace.
Through this, LKFM is able to incorporate good sustainability practices and initiatives into its day-to-day business
operations and contribute to the betterment of the society and environment.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
19
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Stakeholders Engagement
Throughout the year, LKFM actively engaged with different stakeholders through various channels as indicated below so
that we can offer timely responses that anticipate and address their concerns. Stakeholders’ engagement is a collaborative
process that is critical to the success of the Company. The input and feedback received, help the Group to formulate
improvement plans, innovate our products and services, as well as anticipate future market demands.
Stakeholders Engagement Approach
Employees Training & developments programme for the staff, policies & procedures, annual
performance evaluation, inter-departmental meetings, social activities, dialogue and
engagement.
Shareholders Regular updates on the corporate website, annual general meeting and extraordinary
general meeting, announcements released to Bursa Malaysia, quarterly report and
annual report.
Regulators Updates regularly on regulations, meetings, briefing, seminars and/or conferences,
to assist government initiatives, licensing, audit and inspection.
Customers Meetings, corporate website, customers service, customer satisfaction surveys and
complaints resolution.
Vendors Vendor audit, meetings, evaluation to comply with our ISO standards and vendor
relationship management.
The Company has identified material sustainability matters on the context and strategy with considerations relevant
to stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. Moving forward, to keep abreast with critical issues, we will review
periodically our material issues against the changing business environment, stakeholders’ opinions, and emerging global
and local trends.
The Company has defined its commitment to Corporate Sustainability across five impact areas and has undertaken
the following initiatives as an integral part of the business operations and practices by contributing to the welfare of its
employees, stakeholders, the general public and the environment it operates.
THE ENVIRONMENT
As the trend on depletion of earth’s natural resources increases and global climate change issues are highlighted frequently,
environmental sustainability becomes paramount important. We recognise the potential environmental impacts of our
business and are committed to operate in a manner that protects the environment and stewards limited resources well.
Hence, it is essential to embed environmental sustainability principles into our business operations and practices with the
objective of safeguarding shareholders’ interest whilst protecting the environment.
LKFM is committed to seek continuous improvement in our operations to minimise any negative impact on the
environment. We will ensure that our business activities are conducted in compliance with the applicable environmental
rules and regulations.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
20
THE ENVIRONMENT (cont'd)
The initiatives adopted by LKFM to achieve a balance among economics, environmental and social considerations in its
production processes and business operations are as below:
• Flour dust from the production process is recycled and re-milled to ensure a proper method of disposing of
production waste from its process;
• To recycle used engine oil by disposing of it to a registered waste oil company for recycling;
• The efficient use of energy, water and raw materials in our operations; and
• The emphasis of work culture on “Go Green’ policy at the workplace.
Responsible waste management and disposal
The Group’s operations continue to comply with local environmental laws and regulations. This policy is properly
communicated to all employees. They are encouraged to be proactive and forthcoming in managing and reporting
environmental related issues and complaints. The Management will continue to review and improve the current
environmental management system and practices.
THE WORKPLACE
The Group believes that the well-being of its employees is important as employees are the backbone of any business
and are central to the functioning of the business operations. They play a vital role in the success and sustainability of
the Group.
LKFM acknowledges the importance of enabling and maintaining a conducive and inclusive work environment for
its employees. Hence, employees of different backgrounds, gender, age and ethnicity are given fair opportunities for
career growth, performance evaluation and compensation programme which commensurate with their rank, roles and
responsibilities.
In fulfilling its responsibility as a caring employer, LKFM places great emphasis on building long lasting relationships with
its employees.
The following initiatives have been adopted by the Group:-
1) Employees’ Welfare and Well-being
• Medical benefits;
• Regularly updating human resources policies and staff benefits;
• Encouraging a healthy and building camaraderie among staff by providing support for social activities;
• Cultivating a transparent and inclusive working environment for all employees, as well as providing an
		 open-door communication policy to encourage employees to report grievances; and
• Equal employment opportunity in terms of gender and ethnicity across all levels of employment.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
21
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
THE workplace (cont'd)
The following initiatives have been adopted by the Group (cont'd):-
2) Safe, Healthy and Conducive Work Environment
Health and safety at work place is given utmost priority in the Group while maintaining a comfortable and
conducive work environment through the following initiatives:-
• The setting up of the Occupational Safety and Health Committee to initiate various health and safety
		 programme to enhance employees’ awareness at work place;
• Compliance with applicable safety, health and environmental laws and regulations;
• Necessary tools and protective gear are provided to employees where needed to ensure that they are
		 adequately protected at work place;
• Ensuring a safe workplace with 24 hours’ security surveillance;
• Constantly updating and promoting the awareness of safety precautions and health issues;
• Train and hold individual employees to accountable for their area of responsibility;
• Maintaining a workplace that is free from theft, violence, harassment, intimidation and other unsafe and
		 disruptive influences due to internal and external conditions; and
• Periodically review the occupational safety and health practices on effectiveness and suitability.
3) Training and Development
The Group recognises the importance of human capital development to meet challenges, it continues to build
and upgrade its human resources to ensure that it can realise its full potential with the following efforts:-
• To engage in external training workshops for staff on both technical related skills and soft management
		 skills;
• Continuous need-based training is critical to ensure that employees have the knowledge and skills to stay
		 relevant amid changing workplace demands;
• Quality sharing sessions across the Group to inculcate a quality mindset to achieve a high-level of customer
		 satisfaction;
• Participate in international trade fairs/exhibitions to broaden the knowledge base and exposure of its
		 employees to keep abreast of new developments in their respective fields of expertise; and
• New employees will participate in new employees’ orientation as well as on-site visits to get clear insights
		 into the Group’s operations.
4) Recreational, Sports and Leisure Activities
The Group encourages its employees to participate in sports and recreational activities in order to cultivate a
good work-life balance culture. This would lead to a more productive workforce team and develop a caring,
harmonious, cohesive and vibrant team-spirit based working environment.
5) Retention, Talent Management and Succession Planning
The Group recognises the importance of retaining key employees as one of the critical components for the
success of its business. In line with this, competitive remuneration packages are in place and regularly reviewed
to attract, retain and motivate the right talents within the Group. The Group has always emphasized fair equal
employment practices.
Succession planning is put in place for critical positions to ensure sustainability in terms of continuous effective
and efficient operations within the Group and a healthy leadership pipeline. We will continue to groom and retain
a diverse and robust talent pool and right grooming to ensure our employees are ready to meet future succession
planning and development as well as being adaptable to change.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
22
THE COMMUNITY
The Group has initiated various activities in fulfilling its corporate responsibility on enhancing community sustainability
such as by encouraging its employees to participate in voluntary works for charitable organisations and donations
from the Group. The Group is committed to provide continuous support to activities carried out by local charities and
organisations.
Employee and community engagement, teamwork and camaraderie outside the workplace are essential in building a
dynamic and committed workforce. In turn, the employees feel a sense of belonging to the Group, motivating them to take
ownership of their roles and responsibilities, respecting the need for work-life integration and overall well-being.
The Group strives to build a relationship of trust by way of social initiatives. Other than contributions for the benefit of the
local community, the Group also creates and offers priority in job opportunities to the local community.
We believe the value of volunteerism to our community will provide caring character and emphatic among employees and
the community.
THE MARKET PLACE
The Group has placed great emphasis to carry out activities with high ethical standards to promote responsible practices
among its investors, suppliers and customers in order to achieve sustainable development in the market place.
1) Investors
In order to establish the trust and confidence of our shareholders, the Group strives to enhance corporate value
via various practices such as maximising shareholders’ wealth through continuous efforts to achieve operational
excellence.
The Group ensures that all material information is disclosed and disseminated in a timely, open, fair and
transparent manner.
The Group is committed to maintain a robust system of corporate governance and transparent business practices
and to implement policies that promote ethical behavior and conducting business responsibility through high
standards of business ethics.
We constantly review our policy to ensure the Group is managed effectively and ethically with adequate control
mechanisms to manage risks and deliver accountability and sustainability.
Further, it also engages with its shareholders and investors through various channel of communication such as
general meetings of shareholders, accessibility in the public domain and regular updates on our website.
2) Suppliers
Reliable suppliers and vendors are essential for the smooth running of our business operations. It is important to
work closely with these suppliers and vendors to establish a long-term working relationship and to realise mutual
growth via mutual trust.
We also conduct site visits on selected suppliers, in-depth suppliers’ assessments and practice standard and
equitable procedures in vendor evaluation to ensure that products and services supplied are in accordance to
our material requirements and standards.
Further, we have placed great emphasis on engaging with local suppliers and purchasing locally where possible
in support of the local economy.
All procurement activities are guided by our documentation procedures as prescribed by ISO 9001:2015 to ensure
that our suppliers comply with our purchase raw material specifications and satisfy our production requirements.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
23
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
THE MARKET PLACE (cont'd)
3) Customers
The Group has continuously sought room for improvement in order to create value for its customers via
competitive pricing without compromising on the quality of its products and services and also the interest of its
shareholders.
The above policy enabled the Group to develop a long-term business relationships and partnerships with its
customers.
In achieving this, the Group has always initiated the followings:-
• Strict quality control from production to ensure customers receive consistent and good quality products
and services, efficient warehousing for the prompt delivery of our products and after-sales service to its
customers;
• To ensure operational excellence in order to reduce overall costs and share these benefits with our customers;
• Regular customer surveys to obtain feedback from the ordering process to delivery, product quality and
services; and
• Regardless of the economic condition, the benchmark for the best value is set so that our customers get the
best possible deals with no compromise in quality and services.
COMMITMENT TO ANTI-CORRUPTION
We are committed to maintain a high standard of integrity and accountability throughout the workplace and have put
in place policies such as the Whistle-blowing Policy, Corporate Standards & Code of Conduct to address and manage
malpractices and corruption within the Group.
The Group has adopted the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which will further safeguard its business operations.
The Group has provided Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption in-house workshops for its staff in order to raise their awareness
about practices of bribery and corruption in all forms are prohibited in the Group’s daily operations.
CERTIFICATION
The Group’s production operation has been awarded the ISO 22000 certifications for food safety management system
for both manufacture of wheat flour and premixed flour and repacking of starch, re-assuring our manufacturing best
practices, meet the food and food ingredient industries’ statutory and regulatory requirements.
CONCLUSION
Moving forward, the Group is committed to promote good corporate governance and building sustainability. The Group
will continue to use its best efforts to build sustainable practices in every aspect of its business where possible for the
benefit of future generations and remain steadfast in achieving excellence in its corporate responsibility.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
24
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement is augmented with Corporate Governance Report, based on a prescribed
format as enumerated in Paragraph 15.25(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) so as to provide a detailed articulation on the application of Lotus KFM Berhad
(“LKFM” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) corporate practices vis-à-vis the Malaysian Code on
Corporate Governance (“the Code”).
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of LKFM fully supports the recommendations of the Code in maintaining a high
standard of corporate governance and ensuring that the principles and best practices of corporate governance are
observed and adopted as a fundamental part of discharging its responsibilities to protect and enhance stakeholders’
value.
This Corporate Governance Statement (“Statement”) should also be read together with the Company’s Corporate
Governance Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2022 (“FYE 2022”) which is available on the Company’s
website at www.kfmb.com.my as well as via an announcement on the website of Bursa Securities.
This Statement gives the shareholders an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company for the FYE
2022.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1 Board and Board Committee
The Company is led by an experienced and dynamic Board. It has a balanced Board composition with effective
Independent Directors. The Board provides stewardship to the Group’s strategic direction and operations and
ultimately enhances shareholders’ value. To fulfill this role, the Board is responsible for the following:-
• To review and adopt the overall strategic direction, business plans, and annual budgets of the Group, including
major capital commitments on a quarterly basis;
• To oversee and evaluate the conduct, governance and sustainability of the businesses of the Group;
• To deliberate on proposals presented and recommended by the Management;
• To review and approve the annual and quarterly results, new ventures, major acquisitions and disposal of
undertakings and properties;
• To establish key performance indicators and ensure that there are plans in place for the orderly succession of
the board and senior management;
• To oversee the development and implementation of a shareholder communication policy for the Group;
• To identify principal risks and ensure the implementation of appropriate systems to manage and monitor
significant financial and non-financial risks;
• Responsible for material matters of the Group and reserved for the Board’s decisions; and
• To review the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control systems, risk management and management
information systems, including systems for compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules, directives and
guidelines.
In order to assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has established Board Committees, namely the
Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”) to examine specific
issues within their respective Terms of Reference (“TOR”) as approved by the Board and report to the Board with
their recommendations. The ultimate responsibility for decision making, however, lies with the Board.
1.2 The Chairman
The Chairman of the Board, Tuan Mohd Rasli bin Muda, holds an Independent Non-Executive position and he is
responsible for leading the Board to ensure its effectiveness and integrity and the entrenchment of good corporate
governance practices within the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
25
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (cont’d)
1.3 The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
The positions of the Chairman and CEO are held by two different individuals, and each has a clear accepted division
of responsibilities to ensure there is a balance of power and authority to promote accountability.
The Chairman is responsible for instilling good corporate governance practices and leadership, and for ensuring
Board effectiveness, while the CEO has overall responsibilities over the day-to-day management of the Group’s
business and implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions. The Executive Director is also accountable to
the Board for the overall organisation, management and staffing of the Company and/or the Group as well as the
procedures in financial and other matters, including conduct and discipline.
1.4 Qualified and Competent Company Secretary
The Board is supported by a qualified and competent Company Secretary who is a member of the Malaysian
Association of Company Secretaries and she is holding a professional certificate as a qualified Company Secretary
under the Malaysian Companies Act 2016. She possesses over 29 years of experience in corporate secretarial
practices.
The Company Secretary attended the necessary training programmes, conferences or seminars organised by the
relevant authorities and/or professional bodies to keep herself abreast with the current regulatory changes in the
laws and regulatory requirements that are relevant to her profession and to provide the necessary advisory role to
the Board.
The Board acknowledges that the Company Secretary plays an important role and will ensure that the Company
Secretary fulfils the functions for which she has been appointed.
During the FYE 2022, all Board and Board Committees meetings were properly convened, and accurate and proper
records of the proceedings and resolutions passed were taken and maintained in the statutory records of the
Company.
Overall, the Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretary and her team
to the Board in the discharge of her duties and functions.
1.5 Meeting of Board and Board Committees
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, the meetings calendar is prepared in advance of each new year by the
Company Secretary. The meetings calendar provides the Directors with scheduled dates for meetings of the Board
and Board Committees as well as the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). The closed periods for dealings in securities
by Directors and principal officers based on the scheduled dates of meetings for making announcements of the
Company’s quarterly results were also provided therein.
The Notice of meetings of the Board and Board Committees are sent to the Directors via email at least five (5)
business days prior to the meetings. Meeting materials are also circulated to Directors at least five (5) working days
in advance of the Board and Board Committee meetings to ensure they have been given sufficient time to prepare
for the meetings. Management and other advisers are invited to attend the meetings to report and brief on their
respective areas of responsibility, if required.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
26
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (cont’d)
1.5 Meeting of Board and Board Committees (cont’d)
The deliberations and decisions of matters discussed in the Board and Board Committees meetings are duly recorded
in the minutes of meetings, including whether any Director abstains from voting or deliberating on a particular
matter. The minutes of meetings are circulated to the respective Chairman of the Board and Board Committees in a
timely manner for review before they are confirmed and adopted by members of the Board and Board Committee at
their respective meetings. The Company Secretary also ensures that deliberations at Board and Board Committee
meetings are well documented.
All the records of proceedings and resolutions passed are kept at the registered office of the Company.
Apart from having full and unrestricted access to all information of the Group in a timely and accurate manner, the
Board is encouraged to seek independent professional advice, where necessary, at the Group’s expense from time
to time. This is to enable the Board to discharge its duties in relation to the matters being deliberated.
1.6 Board Charter
The Board recognises and observes the role, composition and responsibilities of the Board embodying in the
principles of the Code and observes as a source of reference for new Board members. The Board Charter sets
out guidance and principles of good corporate governance to ensure fairness, transparency, accountability and
responsibility. It provides guidance for Directors and Management regarding their roles in discharging their duties
towards the Company as well as boardroom activities.
The Board shall review and update the Board Charter from time to time to reflect changes to the Company’s policies,
and procedures as well as to comply with the latest regulations and legislations.
The Board Charter was last reviewed, updated and approved by the Board on 20 August 2021 and published on the
Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
1.7 Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board has in place clear guidelines on business conduct and ethical behaviour for the Directors and employees
in carrying out their duties. The Code of Conduct is published on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my
and has clearly stated the values and inspiring principles behind the achievement of its business objectives are of
fundamental importance for the correct operation of its businesses.
1.8 Whistleblowing Policy
The Board has adopted a whistleblowing policy setting out the appropriate communication and feedback channels
to facilitate whistleblowing. The implementation of the whistleblowing policy is in line with the Companies Act 2016
and Section 17A of the MACC Act (“the Acts”), where provisions have been made to protect the officers who make
disclosures on breach or non-observance of any requirement or provision of the Acts or on any serious offence
involving fraud and dishonesty.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
27
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (cont’d)
1.9 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
In line with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018 (“MACC Act 2018”), the Company
has put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to encourage a culture of integrity and
transparency in all of the Group’s activities. This policy which adheres to the MMLR of Bursa Securities and the
Guidelines on Adequate Procedures issued pursuant to Section 17A(5) of the MACC Act 2018, generally set out
the responsibilities of the Company, and all individuals who work for the Group, in observing and upholding the
Group’s position on bribery and corruption and provides key anti-bribery and corruption principles that apply to
all interactions with the Group’s customers, business partners, and other third parties, as well as guidelines for the
prevention, management, and remediation of bribery and corruption related risks.
The ABC Policy will be reviewed at least once in every three (3) years and in accordance with the needs of the
Company. The ABC Policy is available for viewing on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
1.10 Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
In line with the new Paragraph 15.01A of the MMLR, the Board had on 27 May 2022 adopted the Directors’ Fit and
Proper Policy which serves as a guide to the NC, RC and the Board in their review and assessment of the potential
candidates for appointment to the Board of the Group as well as the retiring Directors who are seeking re-election
at the annual general meeting.
The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy shall be reviewed periodically by the Board and be revised at any time as it may
deem necessary to ensure that they remain consistent with the Board’s objectives, current law and practices. The
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy is published on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
The Board has also adopted the Nomination and Appointment of New Directors Process and Procedures to formalise
the process for the nomination and appointment of a new Director to be undertaken by the NC and the Board in
discharging their responsibilities in terms of the nomination and appointment of new Directors of the Group.
1.11 Sustainability Governance
The Board believes that sustainable business practices are essential to the creation of long-term value and that
running the business in a responsible manner is intrinsically tied to achieving operational excellence.
In terms of structural oversight over sustainability including strategies, priorities and targets, it is reposed at the
Board level with Management being responsible for operational execution with respect to Environmental, Social and
Governance factors as part of the Group’s corporate strategy.
As fiduciary to the Company’s shareholders, the Board is focused on maintaining exemplary corporate governance
practices, which include a commitment to ethics, integrity and corporate responsibility. The Board also ensures the
Company’s internal and external stakeholders are well informed on the sustainability strategies, priorities, targets
as well as overall performance which the Sustainability Statement has provided a detailed articulation in this Annual
Report.
The Board on 20 August 2021 reviewed, revised, and approved the relevant amendments by incorporating the
assessment of the Board’s understanding of sustainability issues in the annual performance evaluation that are
critical to the Company’s performance.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
28
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
2.1 Composition and Board Balance
The Board presently has nine (9) members comprising two (2) Executive Directors, four (4) Non-Independent Non-
Executive Directors and three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. This is in compliance with Paragraph 15.02
of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires that at least two (2) Directors or 1/3 of the Board, whichever is the
higher, are Independent Directors.
The composition of the current Board is set out in the table below:-
Names Designation
1. Mohd Rasli bin Muda Independent Non-Executive Chairman
2. Datuk Wong Sak Kuan Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman
3. Lee Wai Fun Executive Director cum Chief Executive Officer
4. Lim Lian Chee Executive Director
5. Low Koon Min Independent Non-Executive Director
6. Yap Ee Seong Independent Non-Executive Director
7. Yau Ming Teck Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
8. Chia Weng Lock Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
9. Wong Yau Min Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
The Independent Directors, who are professionals of credibility and repute, demonstrate independent judgement
and objectivity in the Board’s deliberations. The diverse professional backgrounds of the Directors provide the
Board with an effective mix of members with industry-specific knowledge and broad business experience.
A brief profile of the Directors is presented in the Board of Directors Profile of this Annual Report.
The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board, and understands that increasing
diversity at the Board level is an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage. A truly diverse Board will
include and make good use of differences in skill, regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and
other distinction between Directors. These differences will be considered in determining the optimum composition
of the Board and when possible, should be balanced appropriately. All Board appointments are made on merit,
taking into account the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be
effective.
The Board had also implemented a process for annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the
Board Committees, and for assessing the contribution of each individual Director. This process shall be carried out
by the Nomination Committee.
The Board continually assesses the composition and the tenure of its Independent Directors to ensure they have
the appropriate balance of skills, expertise and experience to bring an independent view in the consideration of
Board issues and provide the appropriate advice to maintain the highest level of corporate ethics. LKFM measures
the independence of its Directors based on the criteria prescribed under MMLR in which a Director should be
independent and free from any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of independent
judgement or the ability to act in the best interest of the Company.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
29
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.1 Composition and Board Balance (cont’d)
The Non-Executive Directors contribute significantly in areas such as policy and strategy, performance monitoring,
allocation of resources as well as improving governance and controls. They also ensure that the strategies proposed
by the management are fully discussed and examined, and take into account the long-term interest not only of the
shareholders but also of employees, customers and suppliers. Together with the CEO who has an in-depth knowledge
of the business, the Board constitutes individuals who are committed to business integrity and professionalism in
all its activities.
Each Board member is expected to commit sufficient time to carry out his/her role as Director and/or member
of the Board Committees in which he/she is a member. In accordance with the requirements of MMLR, none of
the Directors of the Company can hold more than five (5) directorships in public companies. This ensures the
Independent Directors’ commitment, resources and time are focused for an effective input to the Board.
2.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
The Board is fully aware that the tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine
(9) years as recommended by the Code. However, if the Board intends to retain a Director who has served as an
Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, the Board must justify its
decision and seek the shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process at a general meeting.
The Board has not adopted a policy that limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
a step up practice. Notwithstanding that, the assessment of the independence of Independent Directors will be
conducted annually via the Annual Evaluation of Independence of Directors to ensure that they are independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of
their independent judgement or the ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
During the FYE 2022, none of the Directors has served the Board as an Independent Director of the Company
for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years. Further, based on the independence assessment carried out
during the financial year under review, the Board is satisfied with the level of independence demonstrated by all the
Independent Non-Executive Directors and their abilities to act in the best interest of the Company.
2.3 Board Diversity and Senior Management Team
The Board acknowledges the importance of Board and Senior Management Team composition diversity as
recommended by the Code. In pursuing diversity agenda, the Directors and Senior Management are sourced from
a diverse pool and recruited based on objective criteria, merit and with due regard for diversity in skills, knowledge,
experience, age, cultural background, gender and contribution.
In line with the recommendation under the Code for gender diversity, the Board has established and adopted a
Gender Diversity Policy which provides a framework for the Company to improve its gender diversity at the Board
and senior management level. The policy emphasizes the need for diversity amongst the Board members, amongst
others, including race, ethnicity, age, gender, skills, competencies, experiences and expertise. The Gender Diversity
Policy was last reviewed, updated and approved by the Board on 20 August 2021 to improve gender diversity not
only at the Board level but also to include the senior management level.
Currently, there are two (2) female Directors on the Board, namely, Ms. Lee Wai Fun and Ms. Low Koon Min.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
30
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.4 Board Committees
The Board Committees are set up to manage specific tasks for which the Board is responsible within a clearly defined
TOR. This ensures that the Board members can spend their time more efficiently while the Board Committees are
entrusted with the authority to examine particular issues.
The Board has established three (3) Board Committees and the membership of each committee is set out in the
table below:-
Composition AC NC RC
Mohd Rasli bin Muda
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
Member Member Chairman
Low Koon Min
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Chairperson Chairperson Member
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director /
Vice Chairman)
Member – Member
Yau Ming Teck
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
– Member –
2.5 NC & RC
Currently, the composition of the NC & RC complies with the MMLR and comprise with a majority of Independent
Directors.
The NC & RC will scrutinise the candidates and recommend the same for the Board’s approval. In discharging this
duty, the Committees will undertake a thorough review of the candidate’s criteria, amongst others, qualifications,
skills, knowledge, expertise, experience, personal attributes and the capability to devote the necessary time and
commitment to the role.
The Board believes that individuals with diverse backgrounds, independence, competencies and diversity
represented on the Board could improve its effectiveness and bring different perspectives to its deliberations and
decision-making processes.
The above composition ensures that any decisions made are impartial and in the best interest of the Company
without any element of fear or favor.
In furtherance to that, the NC & RC will also recommend to the Board the framework of the remuneration package
for Executive Directors based on their duties and responsibilities. It is nevertheless the ultimate decision of the
entire Board to approve the appointment and remuneration of new directors and the directors do not participate
in a decision on their own remuneration package. The Directors’ fees are approved at the Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”) annually by the shareholders, based on the recommendation from the Board.
The NC & RC meet as and when required at least once every financial year.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
31
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.5 NC & RC (cont’d)
The activities undertaken by the NC for the FYE 2022 are as follows:-
i) Evaluated the performance of each Non-Executive Director against the criteria as set out in the annual
assessment form, amongst others, attendance at Board or Committee meetings, key responsibilities of the
Chairman, adequate preparation for Board and/or Committee meetings, regular contribution to Board or
Committee meetings, personal input to the role and other contributions to the Board or Committees as a
whole.
ii) Evaluated the performance of the Executive Directors against diverse key performance indicators, amongst
others, financial, strategic and sustainability, operations management and business plans, product
development, conformance and compliance, shareholders’/investors’ relations, employee training and
development, succession planning and personal input to the role.
iii) Evaluated the independence of the Independent Directors.
iv) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees as a whole for assessing the contribution
to the effectiveness of the decision-making process of the Board.
v) Evaluated the performance of the AC.
vi) Considered and recommended to the Board for consideration, the re-election of Directors who were due for
retirement at the AGM.
In addition, the RC and Board also reviewed the remuneration packages (including fees and benefits) of the Directors
for the FYE 2022 before recommending the same to the shareholders for approval at the AGM of the Company.
2.6 Appointment to the Board
The proposed appointment of new Board members is reviewed and assessed by the NC. Thereafter the NC submits
its recommendation on the proposed appointment to the Board for approval. The NC’s primary role is to review the
required mix of skills and experience of the Directors on the Board and determine the appropriate Board balance
and size of non-executive directors. It will establish procedures and processes towards an annual assessment of
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and the committees of the Board and for assessing the contribution of
each individual Director including time commitment. The Board is satisfied that the current composition of the Board
brings the required mix of skills and experience required for the Board to function effectively.
The Board is responsible to assess, evaluate and recommend a new Board member to the Board after taking into
consideration the relevant criteria such as age, gender, ethnicity, skill and experience, industry knowledge, personal
qualities and characteristic which include integrity, willingness and ability to discharge duty as Director.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
32
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.7 Re-election and Re-appointment of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, one-third (1/3) of the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation
at every AGM and provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every three years but shall
be eligible for re-election. Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to re-election by the shareholders
at the next AGM held following their appointments.
The Board makes recommendations concerning the re-election, reappointment and continuation in office of any
Director for shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
The NC has considered the assessment of Datuk Wong Sak Kuan, Mr. Chia Weng Lock, Mr. Lim Lian Chee and Mr.
Wong Yau Min, the Directors standing for re-election and collectively agreed that they meet the criteria of character,
experience, integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
2.8 Annual Assessment of Effectiveness of the Board and Board Committee as a whole
The Board has, through the NC, conducted an annual evaluation to determine the effectiveness of the Board, its
Board Committees and each individual Director for the FYE 2022 based on the agreed evaluation process, criteria to
be used and the evaluation method. The process was carried out by sending the following customised assessment
forms to Directors:-
i) Performance of Executive Directors;
ii) Performance of the Non-Executive Chairman;
iii) Performance of the Non-Executive Directors;
iv) Independence of the Independent Directors;
v) Performance of the AC; and
vi) Effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees as a whole.
The assessment criteria, amongst others, based on the Key Performance Indicators cover the financial performance
and business operations, strategic and sustainability, operations management and business plans, product
development, conformance and compliance, stakeholders’ relation, succession planning, attendance, preparation
and contribution to the committee meetings.
Based on the evaluations conducted for the FYE 2022, the NC and the Board were satisfied with the performance
of the individual Directors, the Board as a whole, Board Committees as well as the independence and objective
judgements that the Independent Directors have brought to the Board.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
33
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.9 Attendance of Board and Board Committees’ Meetings
The Board and Board Committees shall meet at least four (4) times annually, or more frequently as circumstances
dictate. As part of the duty to foster open communication, the auditors and a representative(s) of the external
auditors (if required) will be invited to attend the meetings. Senior Management personnel also attended the meeting
upon invitation by the Committee to provide their professional views, advice and explanation on specific items. The
Company Secretary or any other person appointed by the Board or Board Committees for this purpose shall act
as Secretary for the Committee and as a reporting procedure, the minutes shall be circulated to all members of the
committee.
The number of meetings held and attended by each member of the Board and Board Committees during the FYE
2022 are as follows:-
Type of Meetings Board of
Directors
AC NC RC
Name of Directors No. of Meetings Attended
Mohd Rasli bin Muda 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 4/4 4/4 – 1/1
Lee Wai Fun 4/4 – – –
Yau Ming Teck 3/4 – 1/1 –
Low Koon Min 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1
Chia Weng Lock 4/4 – – –
Yap Ee Seong 4/4 – – –
Wong Yau Min
(Appointed on 30 September 2022)
– – – –
Lim Lian Chee
(Appointed on 3 October 2022)
– – – –
To facilitate an effective way to discharge the responsibilities, the Board Committees have been established and
guided by the respective terms of reference. The Board Committees are chaired by Independent Non-Executive
Directors who exercise skillful leadership with in-depth knowledge of the industry.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
34
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.10 Board Training
The Board acknowledges that its Directors must keep abreast of developments in the Group’s operating environment
and business and will need to enhance their knowledge and business acumen to meet challenging commercial
risks.
During the FYE 2022, the Directors have attended the following training programmes in compliance with Paragraph
15.08 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities:-
Name of Directors Title of Training/Seminars attended
Mohd Rasli bin Muda • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
• Corporate Governance & Remuneration Practices for the ESG World
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
Lee Wai Fun • Malaysian Budget 2022
• Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
Chia Weng Lock • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
Low Koon Min • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
Yau Ming Teck • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
Yap Ee Seong • Amendments to the MMLR of Bursa Securities relating to Director
appointment, independence and other amendments
• TCFD Climate Disclosure Training Programme
• Webinar BEPsPillar 2 – The Impact on Southeast Asia
• Tax Season 2022 – Tax Briefing
• Advocacy Sessions for Directors and Senior Management of Main Market
Listed Issuers
• Latest on RMCD's Special Voluntary Disclosure and Amnesty (VA) Program
• Corporate Governance & Remuneration Practices for the ESG World
In addition, the Directors were briefed and updated at the quarterly meetings by the External Auditors, Internal
Auditors and/or the Company Secretary on relevant amendments to the Listing Requirements, corporate governance
practices and principles, risk management and internal control approaches, Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
as well as auditing requirements. The Directors also gained insights to the market development through constructive
and active deliberations at the Board meetings.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
35
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (cont’d)
2.10 Board Training (cont'd)
The Directors are encouraged to attend relevant seminars and courses to keep themselves abreast on the various
issues faced in the changing business environment, regulatory and corporate governance developments to enhance
their professionalism, skill and knowledge to effectively discharge their duties and responsibilities.
The Directors recognise the need to continually develop and refresh their skills and knowledge and to update
themselves on the developments in the related industry and business landscape.
Relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements were circulated to the Board from time to time for the
Board's reference.
The Board will continue to identify and attend appropriate briefings, seminars, conferences and courses to keep
abreast of relevant changes in legislation and regulations, and development in the industry in order to further
enhance their skills and knowledge.
Directors are mindful that they must continue to enhance their skills and knowledge to maximise their effectiveness
during their tenure. Throughout their years in office, the Directors are continually updated on the Group’s business
and the regulatory requirements by the Management and the Company Secretary.
PART III - REMUNERATION
3.1 Remuneration Policy
The Board had through the RC, established a formal and transparent Remuneration Policy as a guide for the Board
and the RC to determine the remuneration of Directors and/or Senior Management of the Company which takes into
account the demands, complexities and performance of the Company as well as skills and experience required. The
Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
The Board, assisted by the RC, implements the policy and procedures on remuneration, which includes reviewing
and recommending the proposed remuneration packages of the Directors of the Company. The RC is responsible to
ensure that the remuneration packages are benchmarked with industry standards in light of the Group’s performance
in the industry as well as commensurate with the expected responsibility and contribution by the Directors and link
to the strategic objectives of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors will be paid a basic fee as ordinary remuneration and will be paid a sum based on their
responsibilities in committees and the Board, their attendance and/or special skills and expertise they bring to the
Board. The fee shall be fixed in sum and not by a commission on or percentage of profits or turnover.
The annual Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors are endorsed by the Board for
approval by the shareholders of the Company at the AGM.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
36
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART III - REMUNERATION (cont’d)
3.2 Remuneration of Directors
The Directors’ fees and benefits of the Company are subject to the shareholders’ approval of the Company. The
remuneration of the individual Director of the Company for the FYE 2022 is as follows:-
The Company
Name of Directors
Salaries
RM
Fees
RM
Meeting
and Other
Allowance
RM
Total
RM
Non-Executive Directors
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan – 36,000 – 36,000
Low Koon Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Mohd Rasli bin Muda – 60,000 – 60,000
Yau Ming Teck – 36,000 – 36,000
Yap Ee Seong – 36,000 – 36,000
Total – 204,000 – 204,000
The Group
Name of Directors
Salaries
RM
Fees
RM
Meeting
and Other
Allowance
RM
Total
RM
Non-Executive Directors
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan – 36,000 – 36,000
Low Koon Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Mohd Rasli bin Muda – 60,000 – 60,000
Yau Ming Teck – 36,000 – 36,000
Yap Ee Seong – 36,000 – 36,000
Total – 204,000 – 204,000
The Board is of the opinion that besides confidentiality and personal security concern, the detailed disclosure
of remuneration of Executive Directors on a named basis may be detrimental to its business interest, given the
industry’s competitiveness. Hence, the company opts not to disclose on a named basis the remuneration of the
Executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
37
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
PART III - REMUNERATION (cont’d)
3.2 Remuneration of Directors (cont’d)
The remuneration of Directors commensurate with their experience, contribution and commitment in discharging
their responsibilities, taking into consideration the Group’s performance. Their remuneration packages are reviewed
by the RC and endorsed by the Board. Furthermore, all fees, allowances and benefits payable to Non-Executive
Directors are subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
The Board determines the fees and benefits of all Directors, including the Non-Executive Directors. Directors do not
participate in the decisions regarding their own fees, benefits and/or remuneration packages.
3.3 Remuneration of Senior Management
The remuneration of the Senior Management of the Company for the FYE 2022 as follows:-
Range of Remuneration No. of Senior Management Officer
RM50,001 to RM100,000 5
Due to the confidentiality and sensitivity of the remuneration packages of Senior Management as well as security
concerns, the Board opts not to disclose the Senior Management’s remuneration components on a named basis in
the bands of RM50,000.
The Board is of the view that the disclosure of the remuneration of Senior Management on a named basis would
be not in the best interest of the Company given the competitive human resources environment that may give rise
to recruitment and talent retention issues. The Board is of the opinion that the disclosure of Senior Management’s
aggregated remuneration on an unnamed basis in the bands of RM50,000 is adequate.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE
4.1 Effective and Independent AC
The primary objective of the AC is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to financial accounting
and reporting matters. In compliance with the MMLR and the Code, the AC comprises three (3) Non-Executive
Directors with a majority of whom are Independent Directors:-
Audit Committee Members
Low Koon Min (Chairperson)
Mohd Rasli bin Muda
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan
The AC members possess the necessary skills and knowledge to discharge their duties in accordance with the TOR
of the AC and they are able to understand matters under the purview of the AC including the financial reporting
process.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
38
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE (cont’d)
4.1 Effective and Independent AC (cont’d)
The AC will observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years in the event any potential candidate to be
appointed as a member of the ARMC was a former key audit partner. This policy had been codified in the TOR of
AC of the Company. Currently, none of the members of the AC is a former key audit partner.
The term of office and performance of the AC and its members are reviewed by the NC annually to determine
whether such AC and members have carried out their duties in accordance with the TOR.
The membership of the AC, summary of the works, the function of the AC in relation to the external auditors and the
number of meetings held since the previous financial year end as well as the attendance of each member are shown
in the AC Report of the Annual Report.
4.2 Financial Reporting
The financial statements of the Group were prepared in accordance with the applicable approved accounting
standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016.
The Board is committed to provide a balanced, clear and comprehensive assessment of the Group’s performance,
position and prospects primarily through the annual financial statement, quarterly financial reports and corporate
announcements on significant developments to the shareholders.
The AC assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting process and ensuring the quality of the financial
reporting by the Group. The AC reviews and monitors the accuracy and integrity of the Group’s annual and quarterly
financial statements for an announcement to the public within a stipulated time frame.
In reviewing all the published annual and quarterly financial statements during the FYE 2022, the Directors took
due care and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with accounting standards in all material aspects. For this
purpose, the Directors are updated and briefed by the External Auditors on current accounting practices, new
MFRS, amendments/improvements to MFRSs, new IC Interpretation (“IC Int.”) and amendments to IC Int. that have
been issued but have yet to be effective.
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
5.1 Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board recognises the importance of having effective governance embedding risk management and internal
control processes, and acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control
covering not only financial controls but also relating to operational, compliances and risk management to safeguard
shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is set out in this Annual Report.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to external professional services firm, to assist the AC and
Board in providing an independent assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s internal
control system and risk management.
The Internal Auditors shall conduct regular reviews and appraisal of the effectiveness of the governance, risk
management and internal control process within the Group. The outsourced Internal Auditors report directly to the
AC. They are given full access to all the documents relating to the Company and Group’s governance, financial
statements and operational assessments.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
39
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL (Cont’d)
5.1 Risk Management and Internal Control (cont’d)
The Board acknowledges that risks management and internal control are an integral part of good governance. Risk
is inherent in all business activities. It is, however, not the Group’s objective to eliminate risk totally but to provide
structural means to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in all the Group’s activities and to balance
between the cost and benefit of managing and treating risks, and the anticipated returns that will be derived from.
During the financial year under review, the outsourced Internal Auditors had conducted reviews on the adequacy
and effectiveness of the controls on the flour milling business unit and sales orders delivery and billing process of
the Company.
To ensure that the responsibilities of Internal Auditors are fully discharged, the AC evaluates the performance of
the Internal Auditors for the FYE 2022 based on the following evaluation criteria as set out in the Internal Auditors’
Annual Assessment Form:-
a. Adequacy of resources and experience of the internal audit firm;
b. Quality processes of the internal audit firm;
c. Competency of the engagement team;
d. Governance and independence;
e. Internal audit fee, scope and planning; and
f. Internal audit reports and communications.
The AC concluded its assessment that the Internal Auditors have sufficient experience and resources to satisfy their
terms of reference and adequately deliver quality services to the Group.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
PART I – ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
6.1 Continuous Communication with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of being transparent and accountable to the Company’s stakeholders and as
such has various channels to maintain communication with them. The annual report, quarterly announcements on
financial results, relevant announcements on the Group’s business and activities, as well as the Company’s website
are the primary mode of communication with all its stakeholders.
The Company is committed to upholding high standards of transparency and promotion of investor confidence
through the provision of comprehensive, accurate and quality information on a timely and even basis.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through the
Annual Report, AGM and announcements via Bursa Securities. During the AGM, sufficient time will be allocated for
shareholders to ask questions about the Group and its operations.
The Company’s website, www.kfmb.com.my, is established for the shareholders and stakeholders to access
information regarding the Group. Information on the website includes amongst others the Group’s corporate
structure, main business activities and announcements to Bursa Securities.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
40
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
6.2 General Meetings
The AGM remains the principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders where they are encouraged to meet Board
to have greater insight into the Group operations. Shareholders who are unable to attend are allowed to appoint
proxies to attend, speak and vote on their behalf. At the AGM, shareholders are given the opportunity to raise
questions on the Group’s activities and prospects as well as to communicate their expectations and concerns to
the Company. The Board and the Senior Management together with the External Auditors and Company Secretary
are available to provide feedback and responses to the questions raised by shareholders during the meeting.
The notice of the Thirty-Seventh AGM (“37th AGM”) of the Company was circulated to the shareholders at least
twenty-eight (28) days before the AGM which gives shareholders sufficient time to prepare themselves to attend
the AGM or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on their behalf. The notice for the forthcoming Thirty-Eighth AGM
(“38th AGM”) will send to the shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the date of the AGM as well.
An extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”) will be held when shareholders’ approvals are required on specific
matters.
During the proceedings of the 37th AGM convened on 21 March 2022, the Chairman ensured that shareholders
are given the opportunity to comment or raise issues and questions whether pertaining to issues on the agenda,
the annual report, Group’s strategy or developments in the Group. All questions raised by the shareholders were
answered and addressed accordingly.
The Company has always made the necessary preparation for poll voting for all resolutions tabled at the AGM and
EGM. The Company will explore the suitability and feasibility of employing electronic means for poll voting.
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of MMLR of Bursa Securities, all resolutions deliberated during the general meeting
will be put to vote by way of poll and the voting results will be validated by an independent scrutineer and released
to Bursa Securities on the same day.
6.3 Effective Communication and Proactive Engagement
All Directors attended the 37th AGM and be accountable to the shareholders for their stewardship of the Company.
The Chairman of the Board and its Board Committees members were available to respond to shareholders’ queries
concerning the Company and the Group at the 37th AGM. The External Auditors were also invited to attend the AGM
and assist the Board in addressing relevant queries made by the shareholders.
From the Company’s perspective, the AGM also serves as a forum for Directors to engage with the shareholders
personally to understand their needs and seek their feedback. The Board welcomes questions and feedback
from the shareholders during the shareholders’ meetings and ensures their queries are responded to properly and
systematically.
The summary of the key matters discussed at the AGM will be made public on the Company’s website for the
shareholders’ information.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
41
The members of the Audit Committee (“AC” or “the Committee”) of the Company are pleased to present their report for
the FYE 2022.
The current members of the AC are as follows:-
Members Designation
Low Koon Min (Chairperson) Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Rasli bin Muda (Member) Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan (Member) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman
The Company has complied with Paragraph 15.09 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires all members of
the Committee to be Non-Executive Directors with a majority of them being Independent Directors. In addition, the AC
Chairperson, Ms. Low Koon Min, is a member of the CIMA and the MIA.
The TOR of the AC can be accessed from the corporate website of the Company at www.kfmb.com.my.
Meetings
The Committee shall meet at least four (4) times annually, or more frequently as circumstances dictate. As part of the
duty to foster open communication, the internal auditors and a representative(s) of the external auditors (if required)
will normally attend the meetings. Other Board members and the senior management team may attend upon invitation
by the Committee. The Company Secretary or any other person appointed by the Committee for this purpose shall act
as Secretary for the Committee and as a reporting procedure, the minutes shall be circulated to all members of the
Committee and the Board.
During the financial year under review, the AC held a total of four (4) meetings. Details of attendance of the Committee
members are as set out below:
Committee Members Attendance
Low Koon Min 4/4
Mohd Rasli bin Muda 4/4
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 4/4
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
42
Summary of works for the financial year ended 30 September 2022
The summary of works undertaken by the Committee for the financial year ended 30 September 2022, amongst others,
included the following:-
a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly financial statements and the annual audited financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and recommended the same for approval by the Board upon being satisfied that the financial
reporting and disclosure requirements of the relevant authorities have been complied with;
b) Reviewed with the external auditors on the audit planning memorandum, results of the audit, the audit report and
the management letter, including management’s response;
c) Reviewed internal audit reports presented and considered the findings on the Risk Management and Internal
Controls of the Group through the review of an internal audit report tabled and management responses thereof;
d) Reviewed with the external auditors, the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the
Annual Report;
e) Reviewed the related party transactions on a quarterly basis to ascertain that the disclosure procedures are
established to monitor the transaction if any;
f) Self-appraised the performance of the Committee and reviewed the performance of the External Auditors and
Internal Auditors for the FYE 2022;
g) Considered and recommend the re-appointment of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as the External Auditors and their
audit fee to the Board for consideration based on the competency, efficiency and transparency as demonstrated by
the Auditors during their audit;
h) Reviewed the AC Report, Corporate Governance overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report, Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control as well as Additional Compliance Information to ensure adherence to
legal and regulatory reporting requirements before recommending to the Board for approval for inclusion in the
Company’s Annual Report and
i) Reviewed with the Internal Auditors, the internal audit report for the internal audit function and considered the
findings of internal audit investigations and management responses thereon, and ensure that appropriate actions
are taken on the recommendations raised by the Internal Auditors.
Internal Audit (“IA”) Function
The IA functions of the Group, as an integral and essential part of the risk management process, have been outsourced to a
professional firm, namely Kloo Point Risk Management Services Sdn. Bhd. to maintain independence and attain efficiency
in the review and maintenance of the systems of control. The IA monitors compliance with policies and procedures and
the effectiveness of the internal control systems and highlights significant findings in respect of any non-compliance. On
the other hand, the AC will have to monitor and review the effectiveness of the IA activities performed during the financial
year. The annual audit plan will be reviewed and approved by the AC and the findings of the audits will submit to the
Committee for review. The summary of work of the IA function is disclosed in the Statement of Risk Management and
Internal Control.
For the FYE 2022, the Committee noted that the IA function is independent and has performed its audit assignments with
impartially, proficiency and due professional care.
Audit Committee Report
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
43
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Introduction
The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance requires the Board to maintain a sound system of risk management and
internal control to safeguard Shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. The Board of Lotus KFM Berhad (“LKFM”)
is committed to maintaining a sound system of internal control and effective risk management and confirms that there is
an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing all significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place
for the financial year and up to the date of approval of this Statement.
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, the Board is pleased to present herewith the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal control
for the Group for the FYE 2022.
Board’s Responsibilities
The Board recognises the importance of good risk management practices and sound internal controls as a platform for
good corporate governance. The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility in maintaining a sound, adequate and
effective internal control and risk management system within the Group to ensure good corporate governance. The
Group’s risk management and system of internal controls are structured to provide reasonable assurance to achieve the
followings:
- Effective and efficient operations;
- Accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting;
- Compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and
- An environment to promote integrity, good ethics and conduct.
The process is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board and is in accordance with the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of Listed Issuers. The AC assists the Board in reviewing the adequacy and
effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management and has received assurance from the Management
that the system is operated adequately and effectively in all material aspects during the financial year.
However, due to inherent limitations in any internal control system, such a system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate risks that may impede the achievement of the Group’s business and corporate objectives. In this regard, the
systems and procedures put in place are aimed at minimising and managing risks. All aspects of financial, organisational,
operational, and compliance controls as well as risk management procedures are contained within this system of risk
management and internal control.
Risk Management
Risk management is firmly embedded in the Group’s management system. It clearly defined the authority, responsibility
and accountability in implementing the risk management process and internal control system. The Board regards risk
management as an integral part of the Group’s business operations. The Group had established a risk management
process to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group and formulate appropriate measures to
address those risks.
The responsibility for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system has been delegated by
the Board to the AC. In turn, the AC assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system and the
governance system through independent reviews performed by the internal audit function and external auditors. The
Management assists the Board in implementing the process by identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks
applicable to their respective areas of business and formulating suitable internal controls to mitigate and control those
risks.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
44
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
Internal Control System
The Board is committed to maintain a strong control structure and environment for the proper conduct of the Group’s
business operations. The key elements are as follows:
- Organisation and definition of the management structure of the Group including areas of responsibilities and
segregation of authorities and limits;
- The Board and AC meet on a quarterly basis and on an ad-hoc basis where there is a need arises to discuss matters
raised by the management, on strategic and operational matters inclusive of potential risks and control issues;
- The Board had delegated the responsibilities to several committees and to the management of the Company to
implement and monitor designated tasks;
- Performance reports are provided to the Board to facilitate review and monitoring of financial performance;
- Proper guidelines within the Group for recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance
management, training and development, employee communication and human resource administration;
- Structured training and development programs conducted both internally and externally covering all levels of staff
to upgrade their knowledge, skill and competency;
- Segregation of duties to reduce the scope for error and to prevent collision;
- Health and safety policies and procedures are in place to assist in maintaining a safe working environment for all
employees;
- Sufficient insurance coverage on major asset classes is in place to ensure the Group’s assets are adequately
covered against risks that can result in material losses;
- The working team are set up from time to time to address business and operational issues to meet the business
objectives and operational requirements of the Group;
- Policies and procedures are systematically documented and are in place to guide employees in their daily operations;
and
- Senior Management regularly meets and communicates with employees of different levels to obtain first-hand
knowledge of significant operational matters and risks.
The overall system of internal control is satisfactory and has not resulted in any material losses, contingencies or
uncertainties that would require public disclosure. The Board continues to review and implement measures to strengthen
the internal control environment of the Group.
Internal Audit Function
The Group’s internal audit function was outsourced to an external professional services firm, to assist the AC in providing
an independent assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system. The
internal audit function had been outsourced to Kloo Point Risk Management Services Sdn. Bhd., a third-party professional
internal audit service firm which is independent of the operations and activities of the Group.
The internal audit plan entails the audit scope, coverage and frequency based on a risk-based approach and is approved
by the AC.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
45
Internal Audit Function (cont’d)
For the financial year under review, the outsourced internal audit function has carried out the following audits:-
• Flour milling business unit: Quality Assurance
i) Quality assurance criteria and plan
ii) In-Process inspection of raw materials
iii) Outgoing inspection
iv) Documentation of testing procedures for assurance
v) Recording of defects
vi) Follow-up actions for defects/non-conformity
• Flour milling business unit: Facilities Maintenance and Housekeeping
i) Planning and scheduling of maintenance work
ii) Administration of machine breakdown
iii) Calibration of equipment and instrument
iv) Statutory inspection by the Department of Occupational
v) Safety and Health
vi) Policies and procedures on housekeeping
vii) Spillage control and pest control
viii) Waste disposal
The result of their reviews is reported directly to the AC which includes significant internal audit findings, recommendations
for improvements, Management’s response and proposed action plans. Follow-up reviews of the implementation of action
plans are carried out to ensure that the matters highlighted in the internal audit reports have been adequately addressed.
Based on the internal audit reviews conducted, none of the weaknesses noted has resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that would require a separate disclosure in this annual report.
The total cost incurred for the FYE 2022 for the internal audit function of the Group was RM31,347 (2021: RM33,533).
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Listing Requirements, the external auditors have
performed a limited assurance engagement on this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Group for the FYE
2022. Based on their review, the external auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention
that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the processes adopted by the
Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system of risk management and internal control of the Group.
The Board is of the view that the Company’s risk management and internal control system is operating effectively and
adequately, in all material aspects, and has received the same assurance from the Financial Controller of the Company.
The Board confirms that the risk management process in identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced
by the Company had been in place throughout the FYE 2022 and up to the date of approval of this statement. The
Board maintains an on-going commitment to continue taking appropriate measures to enhance and strengthen the risk
management and internal control system of the Group.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
46
1) Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company did not raise funds through any corporate exercise during the FYE 2022.
2) Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid or payable to firms or corporations affiliated with the External Auditors
by the Company and the Group for the FYE 2022 are as follows:-
Details of fees
Company
RM'000
Group
RM'000
Audit fees 63.0 104.5
Non-audit fees 9.0 9.0
Note:-
The Company engaged the external auditors for the non-audit works for a limited review of the interim consolidated
financial statements, review of the statement of risk management, internal control and tests of IT general controls.
3) Material contracts
No material contracts (not being contracts entered in the ordinary course of business) have been entered into by the
Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved Directors’ and/or major shareholders’ interest, either still subsisting
at the end of the FYE 2022 or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of the previous financial year.
4) Recurrent Related Party Transactions (“RRPTs”)
The details of the Shareholders’ Mandate for the RRPTs are set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated 18 January
2023 which is available on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s website and the Company’s website.
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the FYE 2022 are disclosed in Note 26
to the audited financial statements for the FYE 2022.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
47
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and the MMLR of Bursa Securities, the Board of Directors (“Board”) is required to
prepare the financial statements for each financial year which have been made out in accordance with the applicable
Financial Reporting Standards in Malaysia and to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the
Company as at 30 September 2022 and of the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Board has undertaken the following measures:-
- Adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;
- Made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
- Ensured that all applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
- Prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation, having
made enquiries that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future.
The Directors have the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy on the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirmed that they have complied with the above requirements for the annual financial statements for the
FYE 2022.
Financial
Statements
49 Directors’ Report
54 Statement by Directors
54 Statutory Declaration
55 Independent Auditors’ Report
60 Statements of Financial Position
62 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
63 Statements of Changes in Equity
65 Statements of Cash Flows
69 Notes to the Financial Statements
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
49
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of
the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in flour milling and trading of its related products. The principal activities of its
subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries during the
financial year except as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
				
Group Company
				RM RM
			
Profit for the financial year				 3,055,466 2,498,138
Attributable to:-
Owners of the Company				 3,055,466 2,498,138
DIVIDENDS
There were no dividend proposed, declared or paid by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend payment for the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES, DEBENTURES AND WARRANTS
There were no changes in the issued and paid-up capital and no issuance of debentures and warrants during the financial
year.
The salient features of the warrants are disclosed in Note 14 to the financial statements.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year except as disclosed in
Note 14 to the financial statements.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
50
DIRECTORS
The name of the Directors of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period commencing from the
end of the financial year to the date of this report are:-
Chia Weng Lock
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan*
Lee Wai Fun*
Low Koon Min
Mohd Rasli bin Muda
Yap Ee Seong
Yau Ming Teck
Wong Yau Min (Appointed on 30 September 2022)
Lim Lian Chee (Appointed on 3 October 2022)
* Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries
The Directors of the subsidiaries since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report, not including those
Directors listed above are:-
Tan Mow Heng
Lee Lip Khang
Nordiana Binti Nordin
Chong Yew Lian (Resigned on 12 December 2022)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
The details of the Directors’ remuneration and benefits are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
During and at the end of the financial year, no arrangements subsisted to which the Company is a party, with the object or
objects of enabling Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures
of, the Company or any other body corporate.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
51
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND DEBENTURES
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia, the interests and deemed interest in the ordinary shares of the Company and of its related corporations of those
who were Directors at the end of the financial year are as follows:-
Directors of the Company
Number of ordinary shares
		At			At
		1.10.2021 Bought Sold 30.9.2022
The Company
Direct interest:-
Mohd Rasli bin Muda		 470,000 – – 470,000
Lee Wai Fun		 33,912,000 – – 33,912,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 200,740,000 – – 200,740,000
Yau Ming Teck		 58,500,000 – – 58,500,000
Chia Weng Lock		 8,330,000 – – 8,330,000
Indirect interest:-
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan#		 300,000,000 – – 300,000,000
Chia Weng Lock*		 58,136,000 – – 58,136,000
Number of warrants
		At			At
		 1.10.2021 Bought Sold 30.9.2022
The Company
Direct interest:-
Lee Wai Fun		 16,820,000 – – 16,820,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 86,725,000 – – 86,725,000
Yau Ming Teck		 21,750,000 – – 21,750,000
Chia Weng Lock		 4,000,000 – – 4,000,000
Indirect interest:-				
Chia Weng Lock*		 24,015,000 – – 24,015,000
# Deemed interest by virtue of shareholdings in Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd..
* Deemed interest by virtue of shareholdings in CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd..
By virtue of the direct and deemed interest of Datuk Wong Sak Kuan in the Company, he is also deemed to have interest
in shares of all the subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest under Section 8 of the Company Act 2016.
Other than the above, no other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had any interest in shares of the Company
or of its related corporations during the financial year.
 
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
52
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:-
(a) to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision for
doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no bad debts to be written off and no provision for doubtful
debts was required; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including their
values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to an amount
which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors were not aware of any circumstances:-
(a) which would render it necessary to write off any bad debts or to make any provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
financial statements misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:-
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liability of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
In the opinion of the Directors:-
(a) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period
of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may affect the ability
of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(b) the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected
by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(c) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of operations of the
Group and of the Company for the current financial year in which this report is made.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
There was no indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the Directors and Officers of the Company during the
financial year.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
53
AUDITORS
The total amount of fees paid to or receivable by the Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as remuneration for their
services as auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries are amounted to RM63,000 and RM41,500 respectively.
The Company has agreed to indemnify the Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, as permitted under Section 289 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. No payment has been made to indemnify Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, for the financial
year ended 30 September 2022.
The Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors.
............…...........................................…. )
DATUK WONG SAK KUAN )
)
)
)
)
) DIRECTORS
)
)
)
)
)
............…...........................................…. )
LEE WAI FUN			
Kuala Lumpur
30 December 2022
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
54
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 60 to 124 are properly drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 30 September 2022 and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors.
……......................................................... .................................................................
DATUK WONG SAK KUAN LEE WAI FUN
Kuala Lumpur
30 December 2022
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
I, Datuk Wong Sak Kuan, being the Director primarily responsible for the financial management of Lotus KFM Berhad,
do solemnly sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the financial statements set out on pages 60
to 124 are correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in )
the Federal Territory this day of )
30 December 2022 ) ..................................................................
		 DATUK WONG SAK KUAN
				
Before me:
RAMATHILAGAM A/L T RAMASAMY
(W671)
Commissioner for Oaths
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
55
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Lotus KFM Berhad (“the Company”), which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 30 September 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies, as set out on pages 60 to 124.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 30 September 2022, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independent and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA
Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Inventories valuation
The risk
Refer to Note 8 to the financial statements. The Group and the Company hold significant amounts of inventories
amounting to RM1,480,297 which is subject to a risk that the inventories become slow-moving or obsolete and rendering
them not sellable or can only be sold for selling prices below their carrying amounts. There is inherent subjectivity and
estimation involved in determining the accuracy of inventories obsolescence provision and in making an assessment of
their adequacy due to risk of inventories not stated at the lower of costs or market values.
Our response
For inventories, we tested the methodology for calculating the provisions, challenged the appropriateness and consistency
of judgements and assumptions made. In doing so, we obtained the ageing profile of inventories, performed ageing test
and obtained understanding on the process for identifying specific problem inventories and historic loss rates.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
56
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont'd)
Key Audit Matters (cont'd)
Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for trade receivables
The risk
Refer to Note 9 to the financial statements. We focused on this area because the Group and the Company have material
amount of trade receivables that amounted to RM7,725,001 and RM7,208,328 respectively. The adequacy of assessment
on recoverability of trade receivables require the use of estimates and judgements of the management. The Group and
the Company apply a simplified approach in calculating provision for ECLs. Therefore, the Group and the Company do not
track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss provision based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The
Group and the Company consider amongst others, their historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking
factors specific to the receivables and the economic environment.
Our response
We have challenged the management’s estimate in the provision rate used to provide ECLs allowance on trade receivables.
This includes reviewing the ageing of receivables and testing the integrity of ageing. We also checked the recoverability of
outstanding receivables through examination of subsequent cash receipts and tested the operating effectiveness of the
relevant control procedures that management has put in place.
Revenue recognition
The risk
Refer to Note 20 to the financial statements. We focus on this area given the magnitude of revenue transaction that
occurred and the amount of revenue is significant to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company. Under
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognised through
a five-step model by identifying the contracts, identifying performance obligation, determine transaction price, allocate
transaction price to performance obligation and recognise revenue.
Furthermore, International Standard on Auditing 240 presumed that we consider the risk of fraud arising in revenue
recognition. Whilst revenue recognition and measurement is not complex for the Group and the Company, revenue targets
form part of the Group’s and of the Company’s key performance measures which could create an incentive to record
revenue incorrectly.
Our response
We have evaluated and tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in
the financial statements. We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items,
performed substantive tests to verify the revenue recognised, performed analytical procedures on the trend of revenue
recognised to identify any unusual fluctuations; and performed cut-off test on sampling basis around the financial year
end to check whether revenue is recognised in the correct accounting period.
We understood and reviewed the appropriateness of revenue recognition policies.
Independent Auditors’ Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
57
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont'd)
Key Audit Matters (cont'd)
Goodwill on consolidation
The risk
Refer to Note 6 to the financial statements. The Group holds goodwill on consolidation of RM24,431,954 which has
been allocated as the cash-generating units. The Group performs an annual impairment assessment for its goodwill.
This requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units and this involves significant
assumptions which are inherently judgemental.
Our response
We evaluated the model used in determining the value in use of the cash-generating units as well as assessing the
discounted rate used and challenging the reasonableness of key assumptions based on our knowledge of the business
and industry. Besides that, we have performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions inputted to the model and
understood the impact on the overall carrying value of goodwill with the alterations to the key assumptions. We also
assessed the adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.
Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Independent Auditors’ Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
58
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont'd)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-
- Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
- Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and the Company’s internal control.
- Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
- Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
- Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
- Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicated with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
Independent Auditors’ Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
59
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont'd)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont'd)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
GRANT THORNTON MALAYSIA PLT LIM CHOOI LING
(201906003682 & LLP0022494-LCA) (NO: 03537/11/2024(J))
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (AF 0737) CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
		
Kuala Lumpur		
30 December 2022		
Independent Auditors’ Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
60
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment 4 23,198,329 21,715,699 22,483,963 21,715,699
  Investment in subsidiaries 5 – – 6,000,005 1,000,005
  Goodwill 6 24,431,954 – – –
  Other investments 7 2 2 2 2
Total non-current assets		 47,630,285 21,715,701 28,483,970 22,715,706
Current assets
  Inventories 8 1,480,297 4,496,654 1,480,297 4,496,654
  Trade receivables 9 7,725,001 5,939,832 7,208,328 5,939,832
  Other receivables 10 10,609,327 15,302,059 6,370,269 7,485,538
  Tax recoverable		 7,229 – – –
  Amount due from subsidiaries 5 – – 23,044,605 6,928,412
  Cash and cash equivalents 11 20,944,705 39,467,333 19,562,324 39,401,792
Total current assets		 40,766,559 65,205,878 57,665,823 64,252,228
TOTAL ASSETS		 88,396,844 86,921,579 86,149,793 86,967,934
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity attributable to owners of
  the Company:-
  Share capital 12 88,700,686 88,700,686 88,700,686 88,700,686
  Redeemable convertible preference
  
shares 13 – – – –
  Warrant reserves 14 8,719,341 8,719,341 8,719,341 8,719,341
  Accumulated losses		 (21,302,317) (24,357,783) (21,797,203) (24,295,341)
Total equity		 76,117,710 73,062,244 75,622,824 73,124,686
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
61
Statements of Financial Position
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liability
  Lease liabilities 15 8,038,725 8,051,174 7,382,625 8,051,174
Total non-current liability		 8,038,725 8,051,174 7,382,625 8,051,174
Current liabilities
  Trade payables 16 1,136,169 2,094,997 378,241 2,094,997
  Other payables 17 1,013,221 1,297,657 675,084 1,281,570
  Contract liabilities 18 1,415,038 1,501,453 1,415,038 1,501,453
  Lease liabilities 15 653,647 677,366 653,647 677,366
  Borrowings 19 – 190,580 – 190,580
  Tax payable		 22,334 46,108 22,334 46,108
Total current liabilities		 4,240,409 5,808,161 3,144,344 5,792,074
TOTAL LIABILITIES		 12,279,134 13,859,335 10,526,969 13,843,248
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 88,396,844 86,921,579 86,149,793 86,967,934
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
62
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Revenue 20 66,079,460 51,762,174 62,101,939 51,762,174
Cost of sales		 (61,908,260) (47,477,166) (58,696,889) (47,477,166)
Gross profit		 4,171,200 4,285,008 3,405,050 4,285,008
Other income		 843,448 441,747 843,448 441,747
Administrative expenses		 (1,842,134) (1,935,511) (1,623,744) (1,887,555)
Selling and distribution expenses		 (97,701) (364,532) (97,701) (364,532)
Net gain on impairment of receivables		 – 48,500 – 48,500
Operating profit		 3,074,813 2,475,212 2,527,053 2,523,168
Finance income		 436,546 706,287 436,546 706,287
Finance costs		 (323,365) (350,355) (323,365) (350,355)
Profit before tax 21 3,187,994 2,831,144 2,640,234 2,879,100
Tax expense 22 (132,528) (170,000) (142,096) (170,000)
Profit for the financial year/Total
  comprehensive income for the
  financial year 		 3,055,466 2,661,144 2,498,138 2,709,100
Attributable to:-
Owners of the Company		 3,055,466 2,661,144
Earnings per share attributable to
  owners of the Company
-Basic (sen) 23 0.30 0.34
-Diluted (sen) 23 0.27 0.28
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
63
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
			
Redeemable		
			convertible
		 Share preference Warrant Accumulated Total
Note capital shares reserves losses equity
		RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Balance at 1 October 2020		 59,064,731 15,000,000 8,719,341 (27,018,927) 55,765,145
Total comprehensive income for the financial year		 – – – 2,661,144 2,661,144
Total transactions with owners of the Company:-
Share issuance expenses 12 (364,045) – – – (364,045)
Conversion of settlement preference shares 13 30,000,000 (15,000,000) – – 15,000,000
		 29,635,955 (15,000,000) – – 14,635,955
Balance at 30 September 2021		 88,700,686 – 8,719,341 (24,357,783) 73,062,244
Total comprehensive income for the financial year		 – – – 3,055,466 3,055,466
Balance at 30 September 2022		 88,700,686 – 8,719,341 (21,302,317) 76,117,710
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
64
Statements of Changes in Equity
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
			
Reedemable		
			convertible
		 Share preference Warrant Accumulated Total
Note capital shares reserves losses equity
		RM RM RM RM RM
Company
Balance at 1 October 2020		 59,064,731 15,000,000 8,719,341 (27,004,441) 55,779,631
Total comprehensive income for the financial year		 – – – 2,709,100 2,709,100
Total transactions with owners of the Company:-
Share issuance expenses 12 (364,045) – – – (364,045)
Conversion of settlement preference shares 13 30,000,000 (15,000,000) – – 15,000,000
		 29,635,955 (15,000,000) – – 14,635,955
Balance at 30 September 2021		 88,700,686 – 8,719,341 (24,295,341) 73,124,686
Total comprehensive income for the financial year		 – – – 2,498,138 2,498,138
Balance at 30 September 2022		 88,700,686 – 8,719,341 (21,797,203) 75,622,824
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
65
STATEMENTS OF
Cash flows
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  Profit before tax		 3,187,994 2,831,144 2,640,234 2,879,100
Adjustments for:-
  Depreciation of property, plant and
   equipment		 1,662,850 1,783,727 1,644,686 1,783,727
  Gain on disposal of property, plant
   and equipment		 – (185) – (185)
  Gain on termination of lease		 (2,725) (467) (2,725) (467)
  Interest expenses		 323,365 350,355 323,365 350,355
  Interest income		 (436,546) (706,287) (436,546) (706,287)
  Inventories written off		 270,293 – 270,293 –
  Net gain on impairment of
   receivables		 – (48,500) – (48,500)
  Property, plant and equipment
   written off		 3,579 4,722 – 4,722
  Reversal of inventories written down		 (227,815) – (227,815) –
Operating profit before working
  capital changes		 4,780,995 4,214,509 4,211,492 4,262,465
Changes in working capital:-
  Inventories		 2,973,879 4,144,946 2,973,879 4,144,946
  Receivables		 6,588,874 (3,044,166) (153,227) (1,585,355)
  Payables		 (2,192,410) (8,475,888) (2,323,242) (8,488,538)
  Contract liabilities		 (86,415) (1,392,906) (86,415) (1,392,906)
Cash generated from/(used in)
  operations		 12,064,923 (4,553,505) 4,622,487 (3,059,388)
  Tax paid		 (211,718) (271,567) (165,870) (271,567)
Net cash from/(used in) operating
  activities		 11,853,205 (4,825,072) 4,456,617 (3,330,955)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
66
Statements of Cash Flows
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Interest received 		 201,392 496,533 201,392 496,533
  Investment in subsidiaries		 – – (5,000,000) (999,998)
  Deposits paid for proposed
   acquisition of subsidiaries		 (449,104) (6,357,289) – –
  Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment A (2,559,080) (89,630) (2,483,330) (89,630)
  Proceeds from disposal of property,
   plant and equipment		 – 3,145 – 3,145
  Advances to subsidiaries		 – – (16,116,193) (6,916,940)
  Net cash outflow from acquisition
   of subsidiaries		 (26,671,087) – – –
Net cash used in investing activities		 (29,477,879) (5,947,241) (23,398,131) (7,506,890)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Drawdown of bankers’ acceptance		 – 190,580 – 190,580
  Interest paid		 (323,365) (350,355) (323,365) (350,355)
  Interest received		 235,154 209,754 235,154 209,754
  Placement of fixed deposits pledged
   to licensed banks B (235,154) (5,209,754) (235,154) (5,209,754)
  Uplift of fixed deposits pledged with
   a licensed bank B 4,900,000 – 4,900,000 –
  Proceeds from issuance of shares
   upon conversion of RCPS, net of
   share issuance expenses		 – 14,635,955 – 14,635,955
  Repayment of bankers’ acceptance		 (190,580) (83,780) (190,580) (83,780)
  Repayment of lease liabilities		 (619,163) (638,869) (619,163) (638,869)
Net cash from financing activities		 3,766,892 8,753,531 3,766,892 8,753,531
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  Net changes		 (13,857,782) (2,018,782) (15,174,622) (2,084,314)
  Brought forward		 24,430,570 26,449,352 24,365,029 26,449,343
  Carried forward B 10,572,788 24,430,570 9,190,407 24,365,029
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
67
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
A. PURCHASE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Total purchase of property, plant and
  equipment		 3,215,180 89,630 2,483,330 89,630
Less: Acquisition by means of lease
 
liabilities		
(656,100) – – –
Total cash used in purchase of property,
  plant and equipment		 2,559,080 89,630 2,483,330 89,630
B. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Fixed deposits with licensed banks		 10,372,962 15,037,791 10,372,962 15,037,791
Cash in hand		 19,825 12,180 16,500 12,180
Cash at bank		 10,551,918 24,417,362 9,172,862 24,351,821
			 20,944,705 39,467,333 19,562,324 39,401,792
Less: Fixed deposits pledged with
 	  licensed banks		 (10,371,917) (15,036,763) (10,371,917) (15,036,763)
			 10,572,788 24,430,570 9,190,407 24,365,029
Statements of Cash Flows
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
68
Statements of Cash Flows
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Group
At Additions/			
At
1.10.2021 Drawdown Termination Repayments 30.9.2022
RM RM RM RM RM
Bankers’ acceptance 190,580 – – (190,580) –
Lease liabilities 8,728,540 656,100 (73,105) (619,163) 8,692,372
8,919,120 656,100 (73,105) (809,743) 8,692,372
At Additions/			
At
1.10.2020 Drawdown Termination Repayments 30.9.2021
RM RM RM RM RM
Bankers’ acceptance 83,780 190,580 – (83,780) 190,580
Lease liabilities 9,396,482 – (29,073) (638,869) 8,728,540
9,480,262 190,580 (29,073) (722,649) 8,919,120
Company
		At			At
		1.10.2021 Termination Repayments 30.9.2022
		RM RM RM RM
Bankers’ acceptance		 190,580 – (190,580) –
Lease liabilities		 8,728,540 (73,105) (619,163) 8,036,272
		 8,919,120 (73,105) (809,743) 8,036,272
At Additions/			
At
1.10.2020 Drawdown Termination Repayments 30.9.2021
RM RM RM RM RM
Bankers’ acceptance 83,780 190,580 – (83,780) 190,580
Lease liabilities 9,396,482 – (29,073) (638,869) 8,728,540
9,480,262 190,580 (29,073) (722,649) 8,919,120
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
69
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the
Main Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The principal place of business of the Company is located at
Kawasan Lembaga Pelabuhan Kuantan, KM25, Jalan Kuantan/Kemaman, Tanjung Gelang, 26080 Kuantan, Pahang
Darul Makmur and the registered office of the Company is located at Third Floor, No. 77, 79 & 81, Jalan SS 21/60,
Damansara Utama, 47400 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The Company is principally engaged in flour milling and trading of its related products. The principal activities of its
subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries
during the financial year except as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the
Board of Directors on 30 December 2022.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.1 Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention,
unless otherwise indicated in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and
services.
2.3 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency
and all values are rounded to the nearest RM except when otherwise stated.
2.4 MFRSs
2.4.1 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs
The Group and the Company have consistently applied the accounting policies set out in Note 3 to the
financial statements to all periods presented in these financial statements.
At the beginning of the current financial year, the Group and the Company adopted amendments/
improvements to MFRSs which are mandatory for the financial periods beginning on or after 1 October
2021.
The initial application of the amendments/improvements to MFRSs did not have material impact to the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
70
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.4 MFRSs (cont’d)
2.4.2 Standards issued but not yet effective
The new and amended standards that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of
the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements are disclosed below. The Group and the Company
intend to adopt these new and amended standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
Effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2022:-
Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations - Reference to the Conceptual Framework
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use
Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets - Onerous
		  Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
Annual improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020
Effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2023:-
MFRS 17* Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17* Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17* Insurance Contracts - Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 -
		  Comparative Information
Amendments to MFRS 4* Insurance Contracts - Extension of Temporary Exemption from
		  Applying MFRS 9
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Classification of Liabilities as
		  Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Disclosure of Accounting
		 Policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
		  - Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
		 Transaction
Effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease - Lease Liability in a Sales and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Non-current Liability with
		 Covenants
Deferred to a date to be determined by the MASB
Amendments to MFRS 10 and Consolidated Financial Statements and Investments in Associate
  MFRS 128*	  and Joint Ventures - Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
		  investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
*  Not applicable to the Group and the Company.
The initial application of the above new and amended standards are not expected to have any financial
impact to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
71
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and underlying
assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results
may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.
2.5.1 Estimation uncertainty
Information about significant estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect on
recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, income and expenses are discussed below.
Useful lives of depreciable assets
The management estimates the useful lives of the property, plant and equipment and right-of-use
assets to be within 1.42 to 50 years and reviews the useful lives of depreciable assets at each reporting
period. The management assesses that the useful lives represent the expected utility of the assets to
the Group and the Company. Actual results, however, may vary due to change in the expected level of
usage and developments, which may result in an adjustment to the Group’s and the Company’s assets.
The management expects that the expected useful lives of the property, plant and equipment and right-
of-use assets would not have material difference from the management’s estimation hence it would not
result in Group’s and the Company’s profit for the financial year.
The carrying amount of the Group’s and of the Company’s property, plant and equipment and right-of-
use assets at the reporting date is disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Impairment of non-financial assets
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. To determine the recoverable amount, management estimates
expected future cash flows from each cash-generating unit and determines a suitable interest rate in
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. In the process of measuring expected future
cash flows management makes assumptions about future operating results. The actual results may
vary, and may cause significant adjustments to the Group’s and the Company’s assets within the next
financial year.
In most cases, determining the applicable discount rate involves estimating the appropriate adjustment
to market risk and the appropriate adjustment to asset-specific risk factors.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In estimating net realisable
values, management takes into account the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates
are made. The realisation of these inventories may be affected by market-driven changes that may
occur in the future.
The management reviews inventories to identify damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories
which require judgement and changes in such estimates could result in revision to the valuation of
inventories.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
72
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
2.5.1 Estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Inventories (cont’d)
The management expects that the expected net realisable values of the inventories would not have
material difference from the management’s estimation. Hence it would not result in material variance in
the Group’s and the Company’s profit for the financial year.
The carrying amount of the Group’s and the Company’s inventories at the reporting date is disclosed
in Note 8 to the financial statements.
Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of receivables
Credit losses are the differences between all contractual cash flows of the Group and of the Company
are due and the cash flows that it actually expects to receive. An ECLs is the probability-weighted
estimate of credit losses which requires the Group’s and the Company’s judgement. The ECLs are
discounted at the original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased
or originated credit-impaired financial assets).
The Group and the Company use a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for receivables. The provision
rates are based on days past due for grouping of various customer/debtor segments that have similar
loss patterns such as geography, customer/debtor type and rating, and coverage by letters of credit
and other forms of credit insurance.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience
with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed rates, forecast economic conditions
and ECLs are significant estimate. The amount of ECLs are sensitive to changes in circumstances and
forecast economic conditions. The Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss experience and
forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customers’ actual default rate in the
future.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s and of the Company’s receivables at the reporting date are
disclosed in Notes 5, 9 and 10 to the financial statements.
Income taxes
Significant estimation is involved in determining the Group’s and the Company’s provision for income
taxes. There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group and the Company recognise tax liabilities
based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such difference will impact the
income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
73
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
2.5.1 Estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profit will be available against which all the deductible temporary differences can
be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax
assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together
with future tax planning strategies.
Leases
As a lessee, the Group and the Company are subject to increase in rental throughout the lease period,
as imposed by the landlord. The management uses all currently available information to develop an
estimate of the expected increase in rental, and reflects such estimates within the right-of-use asset
and lease liability calculations. If a reliable estimate is not available, the management analyses historical
increases in rental, and prudently assumes that the rental will continue to increase at such a rate.
2.5.2 Significant management judgement
The following is significant management judgement in applying the accounting policies of the Group
and of the Company that have the most significant effect on the financial statements.
Leases
In applying MFRS 16, management uses judgement in determining the rate to discount the lease
payments and assess whether a right-of-use asset is impaired. Furthermore, the Group and the
Company estimate the lease term and reassess whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an extension
option, or not to exercise a termination option, upon the occurrence of either a significant event or a
significant change in circumstances.
In most cases, determining the appropriate discount rate involves estimating the appropriate adjustment
to market risk and the appropriate adjustment to asset-specific risk factors. In assessing the lease
term and any the likelihood of any extensions or early terminations, the management monitors the
cash inflows from each right-of-use asset and evaluates whether such extensions or early terminations
would lead to economic benefits for the Group and the Company.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
74
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Group and the Company apply the significant accounting policies, as summarised below, consistently
throughout all periods presented in the financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
3.1 Consolidation
3.1.1 Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. Control exists when
the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered
when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. Besides, the Group considers it has de
facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current
ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affects the investee’s returns.
Investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less any impairment losses in the Company’s statement of
financial position, unless the investment is held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments includes
transaction costs. Where an indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the subsidiaries is
assessed and written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Upon the disposal of investment in a subsidiary, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
3.1.2 Basis of consolidation
The Group’s financial statements consolidate the audited financial statements of the Company and
all of its subsidiaries, which have been prepared in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies.
Amounts reported in the financial statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to
ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. The financial statements of the
Company and its subsidiaries are all drawn up to the same reporting year.
All intragroup assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions
between entities of the Group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are
recognised in asset, such as inventory and property, plant and equipment) are eliminated in full in
preparing the consolidated financial statements. Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that
requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Temporary differences arising from the
elimination of profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions will be treated in accordance to
Note 3.16 of the financial statements.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no
longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Changes in the Company owners’ ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of
control are accounted for as equity transactions. In such circumstances, the carrying amounts of the
controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests
in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted
and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to
owners of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
75
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.1 Consolidation (cont’d)
3.1.3 Business combination and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the
Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the
proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed
and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of
embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value at acquisition date of the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through
profit or loss.
The Group elects for each individual business combination, whether non-controlling interest in the
acquiree, if any, is recognised on the acquisition date at fair value, or at the non-controlling interest’s
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the
acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed
to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in profit or loss or as a
change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will
not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances where the
contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in accordance with
the appropriate MFRSs.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred
and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition
date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those
units.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is
disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount
of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed
of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the
portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
76
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.1 Consolidation (cont’d)
3.1.4 Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of the equity related to the
subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss.
If the Group retains any interest in the previous subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted investee or as
an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence retained.
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are initially stated at cost. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment
is recognised as an asset if, and only if, it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All property, plant and equipment are subsequently stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and less any
impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets
and any other costs directly attributable to bring the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of
replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning
of the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and direct
labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on
borrowing costs. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is recognised on a straight-line method in order to write off the cost of each asset over its
estimated useful life. Depreciation of assets in property, plant and equipment is computed over estimated lives
shown below:-
Buildings, factory and civil works 20 to 50 years
Equipment and fixtures 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 10 to 30 years
Capital work-in-progress consists of properties and plant and machinery under construction/installation for
intended use as production facilities. The amount is stated at cost and includes capitalisation of interest
incurred on borrowings related to property, plant and equipment under installation until the property, plant
and equipment are ready for their intended use. Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are
completed and ready for their intended use.
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed for impairment when events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or at least annually to ensure that
the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and expected pattern
of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the items of property, plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are
determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amounts of the assets and are
recognised in profit or loss in the financial year in which the asset is derecognised.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
77
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.3 Leases
The Group and the Company assess at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is,
if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.
3.3.1 As a lessee
The Group and the Company apply a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases,
except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group and the Company recognise
lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the
underlying assets.
3.3.1.1 Right-of-use assets
The Group and the Company recognise right-of-use assets at the commencement date of
the lease. Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-
of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred,
and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the
lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:-
Factory 17 years
Factory store 1.42 years
Forklift 1.42 years
Hostel 2 years
Leasehold land 50 years
Office 8.83 years
Shop office 3.25 years
Wheat silos 8.25 years
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group and the Company at the end of the
lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated
using the estimated useful life of the asset.
The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. The accounting policies for impairment
of non-financial assets is set out in Note 3.5 to the financial statements.
3.3.1.2 Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group and the Company recognise lease
liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The
lease payments include fixed payments less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease
payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under residual
value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option
reasonably certain to be exercised by the Group and the Company and payments of penalties
for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group and the Company exercising the
option to terminate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are
recognised as expenses in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the payment
occurs.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
78
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.3 Leases (cont’d)
3.3.1 As a lessee (cont’d)
3.3.1.2 Lease liabilities (cont’d)
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group and the Company use their
incremental borrowing rates at the lease commencement date because the interest rate
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease
payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a
modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments or a change in the
assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
3.3.1.3 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group and the Company apply the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-
term leases of premises and equipment (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months
or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). They also apply
the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are
considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value
assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
3.3.2 As a lessor
Leases in which the Group and the Company do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is
accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms and is included in other income in the
statements of profit or loss due to its operating nature. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and
arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over
the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as other income in
the period in which they are earned.
3.4 Inventories
Inventories, comprising raw materials, finished goods and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net
realisable value (“NRV”) after adequate specific write down has been made by the Directors for deteriorated,
obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
Cost of raw materials is determined on a weighted average basis and includes value of goods purchased and
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing the inventories to their present condition and
location.
NRV represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling and
distribution costs necessary to make the sale.
When inventories are sold and revenue is recognised, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised
as cost of goods sold. Write-down to NRV and inventory losses are recognised as expenses when it occurred
and any reversal is recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which the reversal occurs.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
79
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.5 Impairment of non-financial assets
Further disclosures relating to impairment of non-financial assets are also provided in the following notes to
the financial statements:-
Note 2.5 - Significant accounting estimates and judgements
Note 3.2 - Property, plant and equipment
Note 3.3.1.1 - Right-of-use assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group
and the Company estimate the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of
an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (“CGU”) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined
for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if
available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations
are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available
fair value indicators.
The Group and the Company base their impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations
which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s and of the Company’s cash-generating units to which
the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations are generally covering a period of
five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows
after the fifth year.
Impairment losses including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the profit or loss in those expense
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such
indication exists, the Group and the Company estimate the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s recoverable
amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal
is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been
recognised for asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the profit or loss.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually as at the end of each reporting
period, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, as appropriate and when circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at the end of each reporting period and when circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit (or
group of cash-generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating
to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
80
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.6 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or
equity instruments of another entity.
3.6.1 Financial assets
3.6.1.1 Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and fair value through profit or
loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s
contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s and the Company’s business model
for managing them. With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant
financing component or for which the Group and the Company has applied the practical
expedient, the Group and the Company initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus,
in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. Trade
receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group and
the Company has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value
through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest (“SPPI”) on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the
SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are
not SPPI are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the
business model.
The Group’s and the Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it
manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model determines
whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial
assets, or both.
Financial assets classified and measured at amortised cost are held within a business model
with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cashflows while
financial assets classified and measured at fair value through OCI are held within a business
model with the objective of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame
established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised
on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group and the Company commit to purchase or sell
the asset.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
81
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.6 Financial instruments (cont’d)
3.6.1 Financial assets (cont’d)
3.6.1.2 Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories:-
• Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments);
• Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses
(debt instruments);
• Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative
gains and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments); and
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
At the reporting date, the Group and the Company carry financial assets at amortised cost.
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest
(“EIR”) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or
loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. The Group’s and the Company’s
financial assets at amortised cost include other investments, trade receivables, most of other
receivables, amount due from subsidiaries and cash and cash equivalents.
3.6.1.3 Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar
financial assets) is primarily derecognised when:-
• The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
• The Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from the
asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material
delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement and either (a) the Group and
the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b)
the Group and the Company have neither transferred nor retained substantially all the
risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from an
asset or have entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent,
it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the
asset, the Group and the Company continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent
of its continuing involvement.
In that case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred
asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations
that the Group and the Company have retained. Continuing involvement that takes the form of
a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount
of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group and the Company
could be required to repay.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
82
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.6 Financial instruments (cont’d)
3.6.1 Financial assets (cont’d)
3.6.1.4 Impairment
The Group and the Company recognise an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on
financial assets measured at amortised cost, debt investments measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income, contract assets, and lease receivables. ECLs are a probability-
weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs,
except for debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date, cash
and bank balance and other debt securities for which credit risk has not increased significantly
since initial recognition, which are measured at 12-month ECLs. Loss allowances for trade
receivables, contract assets and lease receivables are always measured at an amount equal
to lifetime ECLs.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable
and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This
includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s and
the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-
looking information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the ECLs that result from all possible default events over
the expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses are the portion of ECLs
that result from default events that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company is exposed to credit risk.
Impairment for trade receivables
For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply a simplified approach in calculating
ECLs. Therefore, the Group and the Company do not track changes in credit risk, but instead
recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group and
the Company have established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss
experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment.
Impairment for financial assets other than trade receivables
The Group and the Company consider the probability of default upon initial recognition of
the asset and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis
throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit
risk, the Group and the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at
the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. The assessment
considers available, reasonable and supportable forward-looking information.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
83
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.6 Financial instruments (cont’d)
3.6.1 Financial assets (cont’d)
3.6.1.4 Impairment (cont’d)
Credit impaired
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in
profit or loss and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance
account.
A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the
contractual cash flows. The Group and the Company consider a receivable as credit impaired
when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated cash flows have
occurred. These instances include adverse changes in the financial capability of the debtor
and default or significant delay in payments. However, in certain cases, the Group and the
Company may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external
information indicates that the Group and the Company are unlikely to receive the outstanding
contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancements held by the
Group and the Company. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to
enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s and the Company’s procedures for
recovery amounts due.
3.6.2 Financial liabilities
3.6.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging
instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and
borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities included trade and most of other payables
and borrowings.
3.6.2.2 Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial liabilities are classified in two categories:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; and
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The Group and the Company have not designated any financial liabilities as at fair value
through profit or loss.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
84
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.6 Financial instruments (cont’d)
3.6.2 Financial liabilities (cont’d)
 
3.6.2.2 Subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade payables and most of other payables and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value
plus transaction costs and thereafter, at amortised cost using the effective interest method
(“EIR”). Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised
as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of
the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities for those having maturity dates of not
more than 12 months after the reporting date, and the balance is classified as non-current.
3.6.2.3 Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially
modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts
is recognised in the profit or loss.
3.6.3 Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statements of
financial position, if and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities
simultaneously.
3.7 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank balances and fixed deposits with licensed banks
which are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change
in value.
For the purpose of statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of pledged deposits.
3.8 Equity, reserves and distribution to owners
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and of the
Company after deducting all of their liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.
Accumulated losses include all current year’s and prior periods’ profits or losses.
Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable, or is redeemable but only at the
Company’s option, and any dividends are discretionary. Dividends thereon are recognised as distributions
within equity.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
85
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.8 Equity, reserves and distribution to owners (cont’d)
Preference share capital is classified as financial liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of
the equity holders, or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends thereon are recognised as interest
expense in profit or loss as accrued.
Interim dividends are simultaneously proposed and declared, because the articles of association of the
Company grant the Directors the authority to declare special dividends. Consequently, interim dividends are
recognised directly as a liability when they are proposed and declared.
Final dividends proposed by the Directors are not accounted for in shareholder’s equity as an appropriation of
retained profits, until they have been approved by the shareholder in a general meeting. When these dividends
have been approved by the shareholder and declared, they are recognised as a liability.
All transactions with owners of the Company are recorded separately within equity.
3.9 Warrants
Warrants are classified as equity instruments and its fair value is allocated based on the Trinomial option
pricing model upon issuance. The issuance of the ordinary shares upon exercise of warrants is treated as new
subscription of ordinary shares for the consideration equivalent to the exercise price of the warrants.
Upon exercise of warrants, the proceeds are credited to share capital. The warrants reserve in relation to the
unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants will be reversed.
3.10 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation (legal or constructive)
as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the
Group and the Company expect some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an insurance
contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually
certain. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the profit or loss net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre tax rate that reflects,
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due
to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
3.11 Revenue recognition
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with
customer is satisfied, i.e. when the “control” of the services underlying the particular performance obligation is
transferred to the customer.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer to the customer either:-
(a) good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
(b) a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of
transfer to the customer.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
86
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.11 Revenue recognition (cont’d)
Revenue from contracts with customers is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group
and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised services to the customers,
excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes or services taxes. If the amount of
consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar items,
the Group and the Company estimate the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the
expected value or the most likely outcome.
If the contract with customer contains more than one performance obligation, the amount of consideration
is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling prices of the goods or
services promised in the contract.
The amount of variable consideration is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainly associated with
the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control
over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:-
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Company’s
performance as the Company performs;
(b) the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is
created or enhanced; or
(c) the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Company has an
enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which
the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.
For performance obligations where any one of the above conditions not met, revenue is recognised at a point
in time at which the performance obligation is satisfied.
When the Group and the Company satisfy a performance obligation by delivering the promised goods or
services, it creates a contract based on asset on the amount of consideration earned by the performance.
Where the amount of consideration received from a customer exceeds the amount of revenue recognised, this
gives rise to a contract liability.
3.11.1 Sales of goods
All revenue is recognised at a point in time, which is typically on delivery of the goods. Goods are
sold when the customer obtains control of the asset. All the contracts are completed at the adoption
date. The revenue is recognised net of any related rebates, discounts and taxes. The Group and the
Company disaggregate revenue recognised from contracts with customers into categories that depict
how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic
factors as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
87
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.11 Revenue recognition (cont’d)
3.11.2 Revenue from other sources
3.11.2.1 Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Lease incentives
granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the
lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other income.
3.11.2.2 Interest income
Interest income is recognised in the profit or loss on time proportion basis taking into
account the principal outstanding and the effective rate over the period to maturity, when it is
determined that such income will accrue to the Group and the Company.
3.11.2.3 Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Group’s or the Company’s
right to receive payment is established, which is in the case of quoted securities is the ex-
dividend date.
3.12 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group and the Company
will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the
purpose of giving immediate financial support to the Group and the Company with no future related costs are
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become receivable.
3.13 Contract balances
3.13.1 Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Group and
the Company have received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer.
If a customer pays consideration before the Group and the Company transfer goods or services to the
customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever
is earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group and the Company perform
under the contract.
3.14 Employee benefits
3.14.1 Short-term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as expenses in the financial
year in which associated services are rendered by employees of the Group and of the Company. Short-
term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are
rendered by employees which increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short-
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when the absences
occur.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
88
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.14 Employee benefits (cont’d)
3.14.2 Defined contribution plans
Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which the Group and the Company
pay fixed contributions into separate entities of funds and will have no legal or constructive obligation
to pay further contribution if any of the funds do not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits
relating to employee services in the current and preceding financial years.
Such contributions are recognised as expenses in profit or loss as incurred. As required by law, the
Group and the Company make such contributions to the Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”).
3.15 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and
other costs that the Group and the Company incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
3.16 Tax expense
Tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or
loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or
other comprehensive income.
3.16.1 Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the financial
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
Current tax is recognised in the statements of financial position as a liability (or an asset) to the extent
that it is unpaid (or refundable).
3.16.2 Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of
goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates
that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same
taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a
net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed
at the end of each reporting year and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the
related tax benefit will be realised.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
89
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.17 Contingencies
3.17.1 Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot
be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is
disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of
one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow
of economic benefits is remote.
3.17.2 Contingent assets
When an inflow of economic benefit of an asset is probable where it arises from past events and where
existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future
events not wholly within the control of the entity, the asset is not recognised in the statements of
financial position but is being disclosed as a contingent asset. When the inflow of economic benefit is
virtually certain, then the related asset is recognised.
3.18 Foreign currency transactions and balances
		
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rates prevailing at the date
of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency
spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
3.19 Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted
average number of shares outstanding, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year.
3.20 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenue and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the
Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the Financial
Controller to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance,
and for which discrete financial information is available.
Majority of the operations of the Group are engaged as flour milling and trading of its related products, and all
are in Malaysia. Hence, the Group is not required to present its segment reporting under MFRS 8.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
90
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.21 Related parties
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group. A related party transaction is a transfer of
resources, services or obligations between the Group and its related party, regardless of whether a price is
charged.
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group if that person:-
(i) Has control or joint control over the Group;
(ii) Has significant influence over the Group; or
(iii) Is a member of the key management personnel of the corporate shareholders of the Group, or the
Group.
(b) An entity is related to the Group if any of the following conditions applies:-
(i) The entity and the Group are members of the same group;
(ii) One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity;
(iii) Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party;
(iv) One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the same third
entity;
(v) The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefits of employees of either the Group or
an entity related to the Group;
(vi) The entity is controlled or jointly-controlled by a person identified in (a) above;
(vii) A person identified in (a)(i) above has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key
management personnel of the corporate shareholders of the Group or the entity; or
(viii) The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel
services to the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
91
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
		 Buildings, Equipment							
Plant			
Capital		
		 factory and and		
Factory			
Motor		
and Shop Wheat work-in- Leasehold
		 civil works fixtures Factory store Forklift Hostel vehicles Office machinery office silos progress land Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost														
At 1.10.2020 9,876,990 4,508,961 5,261,139 66,071 29,732 18,449 124,093 3,884,277 41,078,914 182,988 439,790 226,190 – 65,697,594
Additions – 14,730 – – – – – – 74,900 – – – – 89,630
Disposal		 – (3,700) – – – – – – – – – – – (3,700)
Written off – – – – – – – – – – – (4,722) – (4,722)
Reclassification – 173,180 – – – – – – 48,288 – – (221,468) – –
Termination – – – (66,071) (29,732) (18,449) – – – – – – – (114,252)
At 30.9.2021 9,876,990 4,693,171 5,261,139 – – – 124,093 3,884,277 41,202,102 182,988 439,790 – – 65,664,550
Effect from acquisition
 
of subsidiaries – 6,799 – – – – – – – – – – – 6,799
Additions – – – – – – – – – – – 2,483,330 731,850 3,215,180
Written off – (6,799) – – – – – – – – – – – (6,799)
Termination – – – – – – – – – (182,988) – – – (182,988)
At 30.9.2022 9,876,990 4,693,171 5,261,139 – – – 124,093 3,884,277 41,202,102 – 439,790 2,483,330 731,850 68,696,742
Accumulated
 depreciation
At 1.10.2020 7,264,762 4,098,075 309,479 46,638 20,987 2,306 118,715 219,865 25,117,651 56,304 53,308 – – 37,308,090
Charge for the
 
financial year 206,375 128,563 309,479 11,660 1,749 2,306 5,368 439,729 568,886 56,304 53,308 – – 1,783,727
Termination – – – (58,298) (22,736) (4,612) – – – – – – – (85,646)
Disposal		 – (740) – – – – – – – – – – – (740)
At 30.9.2021 7,471,137 4,225,898 618,958 – – – 124,083 659,594 25,686,537 112,608 106,616 – – 39,005,431
Effect from acquisition
 
of subsidiaries – 2,540 – – – – – – – – – – – 2,540
Charge for the
 
financial year 137,766 133,946 309,479 – – – – 439,729 571,138 – 53,308 – 17,484 1,662,850
Written off – (3,220) – – – – – – – – – – – (3,220)
Termination – – – – – – – – – (112,608) – – – (112,608)
At 30.9.2022 7,608,903 4,359,164 928,437 – – – 124,083 1,099,323 26,257,675 – 159,924 – 17,484 40,554,993
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
92
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
Group (cont’d)
		 Buildings, Equipment							
Plant			
Capital		
		 factory and and		
Factory			
Motor		
and Shop Wheat work-in- Leasehold
		 civil works fixtures Factory store Forklift Hostel vehicles Office machinery office silos progress land Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Accumulated
  impairment losses
At 1.10.2020/
 
30.9.2021/30.9.2022 1,729,204 – – – – – – – 3,214,216 – – – – 4,943,420
Net carrying amount
At 30.9.2022 538,883 334,007 4,332,702 – – – 10 2,784,954 11,730,211 – 279,866 2,483,330 714,366 23,198,329
At 30.9.2021 676,649 467,273 4,642,181 – – – 10 3,224,683 12,301,349 70,380 333,174 – – 21,715,699
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
93
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
Company
		 Buildings, Equipment							
Plant			
Capital
		 factory and and		
Factory			
Motor		
and Shop Wheat work-in-
		 civil works fixtures Factory store Forklift Hostel vehicles Office machinery office silos progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1.10.2020 9,876,990 4,508,961 5,261,139 66,071 29,732 18,449 124,093 3,884,277 41,078,914 182,988 439,790 226,190 65,697,594
Additions – 14,730 – – – – – – 74,900 – – – 89,630
Disposal		 – (3,700) – – – – – – – – – – (3,700)
Written off – – – – – – – – – – – (4,722) (4,722)
Reclassification – 173,180 – – – – – – 48,288 – – (221,468) –
Termination – – – (66,071) (29,732) (18,449) – – – – – – (114,252)
At 30.9.2021 9,876,990 4,693,171 5,261,139 – – – 124,093 3,884,277 41,202,102 182,988 439,790 – 65,664,550
Additions – – – – – – – – – – – 2,483,330 2,483,330
Termination – – – – – – – – – (182,988) – – (182,988)
At 30.9.2022 9,876,990 4,693,171 5,261,139 – – – 124,093 3,884,277 41,202,102 – 439,790 2,483,330 67,964,892
Accumulated
 depreciation
At 1.10.2020 7,264,762 4,098,075 309,479 46,638 20,987 2,306 118,715 219,865 25,117,651 56,304 53,308 – 37,308,090
Charge for the
 
financial year 206,375 128,563 309,479 11,660 1,749 2,306 5,368 439,729 568,886 56,304 53,308 – 1,783,727
Disposal		 – (740) – – – – – – – – – – (740)
Termination – – – (58,298) (22,736) (4,612) – – – – – – (85,646)
At 30.9.2021 7,471,137 4,225,898 618,958 – – – 124,083 659,594 25,686,537 112,608 106,616 – 39,005,431
Charge for the
 
financial year 137,766 133,266 309,479 – – – – 439,729 571,138 – 53,308 – 1,644,686
Termination – – – – – – – – – (112,608) – – (112,608)
At 30.9.2022 7,608,903 4,359,164 928,437 – – – 124,083 1,099,323 26,257,675 – 159,924 – 40,537,509
Accumulated
  impairment losses
At 1.10.2020/
 
30.9.2021/ 30.9.2022 1,729,204 – – – – – – – 3,214,216 – – – 4,943,420
Net carrying amount
At 30.9.2022 538,883 334,007 4,332,702 – – – 10 2,784,954 11,730,211 – 279,866 2,483,330 22,483,963
At 30.9.2021 676,649 467,273 4,642,181 – – – 10 3,224,683 12,301,349 70,380 333,174 – 21,715,699
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
94
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Including in net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are right-of-use assets as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Factory		4,332,702 4,642,181 4,332,702 4,642,181
Leasehold land		
714,366 – – –
Office		2,784,954 3,224,683 2,784,954 3,224,683
Shop office		 – 70,380 – 70,380
Wheat silos		279,866 333,174 279,866 333,174
			8,111,888 8,270,418 7,397,522 8,270,418
(b) Additions of right-of-use assets of the Group during the financial year is amounted to RM731,850 (2021: Nil).
(c) Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets are as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Factory		309,479 309,479 309,479 309,479
Factory store		 – 11,660 – 11,660
Forklift		 – 1,749 – 1,749
Hostel		 – 2,306 – 2,306
Leasehold land		
17,484 – – –
Office		439,729 439,729 439,729 439,729
Shop office		 – 56,304 – 56,304
Wheat silos		53,308 53,308 53,308 53,308
			820,000 874,535 802,516 874,535
Group and Company as a lessor
The Group and the Company have entered into operating leases on its right-of-use assets consisting of office. This
lease is on short-term basis. This lease includes a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on an annual
basis according to prevailing market conditions. Rental income recognised by the Group and the Company during
the financial year is RM522,000 (2021: RM366,000).
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at the reporting date are as follows:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Within 1 year				 339,000 366,000
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
95
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
5. SUBSIDIARIES
(a) Investment in subsidiaries
		Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost				 6,324,005 1,324,005
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			 (324,000) (324,000)
					6,000,005 1,000,005
Investment in subsidiaries are impaired at reporting date when the recoverable amount of the subsidiary is
lower than cost of investment. The movement of accumulated impairment losses during the financial year is
as follows:-
		Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Brought forward/Carried forward				 324,000 324,000
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-
					 Principal
		 Effective		 place of
Name of subsidiaries interest		 Principal activities business
		 2022 2021
		 % %
Direct subsidiaries of the Company
KFM Marketing Sdn. Bhd.* 100 100 Trading of industrial related Malaysia
				 products.
Lotus Plantation Sdn. Bhd.* 100 100 Holding companies, planting, Malaysia
				  replanting, transplanting,
				  thinning and conserving of
				  forests and timber tracts,
				  and wholesale of a variety of
				  goods without any particular
				  specialisation not elsewhere
				 classified.
LKB Plantation Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant. Malaysia
 
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
96
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
5. SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(a) Investment in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows (cont’d):-
					 Principal
		 Effective		 place of
Name of subsidiaries interest		 Principal activities business
		 2022 2021
		 % %
Subsidiaries of Lotus Plantation Sdn. Bhd.
ASV Jaya Resources Sdn. Bhd. 100 – To plant, grow cultivate, produce Malaysia
				  and raise forest plantations of all
				  kinds or varities of forest plants,
				  tree and crops and nature
				  products of any kind.
Sam Jaya Plantation Sdn. Bhd. 100 – To plant, grow cultivate, produce Malaysia
				  and raise forest plantations of all
				  kinds or varities of forest plants,
				  tree and crops and nature
				  products of any kind.
Hijau Ria Solutions Sdn. Bhd. 100 – Wholesale of lumber and timber. Malaysia
Ladang Lojing Sdn. Bhd. 100 – Logging operators, buying and Malaysia
				  selling logs.
				
Khas Jadi Sdn. Bhd. 100 – Business of logging and trading Malaysia
				  in timber logs.
* The subsidiaries are dormant in prior financial year.
(b) Acqusition of subsidiaries
On 11 October 2021, Lotus Plantation Sdn. Bhd. (“LPSB”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
acquired 2 ordinary shares, representing 100% of total shares in ASV Jaya Resources Sdn. Bhd. (“AJRSB”),
Sam Jaya Plantation Sdn. Bhd. (“SJPSB”) and Hijau Ria Solution Sdn. Bhd. (“HJRSB”) respectively for a total
consideration of RM5,162,190.
On 31 December 2021, LPSB had again acquired 200,000 and 1,000,000 ordinary shares, representing 100%
of total shares in Khas Jadi Sdn. Bhd. (“KJSB”) and Ladang Lojing Sdn. Bhd. (“LLSB”) respectively for total
consideration of RM21,646,200.
On 2 August 2022, AJRSB and SJPSB had issued 199,998 new ordinary shares respectively which has
acquired by LPSB for a total cash consideration of RM399,996.
On 29 August 2022, HJRSB had issued 199,998 new ordinary shares which has acquired by LPSB for a total
cash consideration of RM199,998.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
97
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
5. SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(b)		
Acqusition of subsidiaries (cont’d)
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries as at date of acquisition are as
follows:-
		 AJRSB SJPSB HJRSB LLSB KJSB Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Property, plant and equipment 3,000 – 1,259 – – 4,259
Other receivable 335,200 335,200 732,875 1,232,892 596,040 3,232,207
Tax recoverable – – – – 5,813 5,813
Cash and cash equivalents 7,130 14,969 113,872 297 1,035 137,303
Other payables (32,527) (14,759) (60,707) (256,653) (584,500) (949,146)
Tax payable – (5,000) (49,000) – – (54,000)
Total identifiable assets and
 
liabilities 312,803 330,410 738,299 976,536 18,388 2,376,436
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of subsidiaries
							
Group
							
RM
Purchase consideration						
26,808,390
Cash and cash equivalents acquired						 (137,303)
							
26,671,087
Goodwill arising from business combination
Goodwill was recognised as a result of the acquisition as follows:-
							
Group
							
RM
Fair value of consideration transferred				 26,808,390
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed			 (2,376,436)
Goodwill					
24,431,954
Impact of the acquisition on the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
From the date of acquisition, acquired subsidiaries has contributed RM44,123 to the Group’s loss for the year
respectively. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial year, the Group’s profit for the
year from its continuing operations would have been decreased by RM39,633.
(c) Amount due from subsidiaries
Amount due from subsidiaries are non-trade in nature, unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
98
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
6. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM RM
			
Brought forward				– –
Addition during the financial year				 24,431,954 –
Carried forward				
24,431,954 –
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating unit (“CGU”)
that is expected to benefit from the business combination.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be
impaired.
Key assumptions made in determining the value-in-use are as follows:
- Cash flows were projected based on actual operating results and the 16 years business plan;
- The discount rate applied to the cash flows projections are derived from the weighted average cost of capital
of the Group plus a reasonable risk premium;
- The size of operation will remain at least or not lower than the current results.
The key assumption used for determining the value-in-use, which are determined based on external sources and
internal sources, is as follows:-
		Group
				2022 2021
				% %
Discount rate				
8.73 –
The projected cash flows from use are derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management.
With regards to the assessments, management believes that no reasonably possible changes in any of the key
assumptions would cause the carrying values of these units to differ materially from their recoverable amounts
except for the changes in prevailing operating environment which is not ascertainable.
7. OTHER INVESTMENTS
The other investments represent the following:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Unquoted shares in Malaysia, at cost				 1,735,501 1,735,501
Less: Accumulated impairment losses				 (1,735,499) (1,735,499)
					2 2
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
99
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
7. OTHER INVESTMENTS (CONT’D)
The movement of impairment losses of other investments during the financial year is as follows:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Brought forward/Carried forward				 1,735,499 1,735,499
8. INVENTORIES
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Raw materials				1,119,153 3,926,009
Finished goods				181,803 310,431
Consumables				179,341 260,214
					1,480,297 4,496,654
Recognised in profit or loss:-
Inventories recognised in cost of sales				 55,726,521 43,303,952
Inventories written down in cost of sales			 270,293 –
Reversal of inventories written down in other income			 (227,815) –
The inventories written down was made when the related inventories are obsolete.
The reversal of inventories written down was made when the related inventories were sold above their carrying
amounts.
9. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Trade receivables, gross		7,775,395 5,990,226 7,258,722 5,990,226
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
- Individual impairment		 (22,960) (22,960) (22,960) (22,960)
- Collective impairment		 (27,434) (27,434) (27,434) (27,434)
			 (50,394) (50,394) (50,394) (50,394)
			7,725,001 5,939,832 7,208,328 5,939,832
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
100
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
9. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
The movement of expected credit losses for trade receivables is as follows:-
				 Individual Collective
				impairment impairment Total
				RM RM RM
Group and Company
At 1.10.2020			71,460 27,434 98,894
Reversal			(48,500) – (48,500)
At 30.9.2021/30.9.2022			22,960 27,434 50,394
The trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent
their fair values on initial recognition. The normal credit terms granted to the customers ranged from cash term to
90 days (2021: cash term to 90 days). Other credit terms are assessed and approved by the management on case-
by-case basis.
10. OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Non-trade receivables		 31,161 374,891 31,161 374,891
Advances 		20,124 24,483 20,124 24,483
Advances to suppliers		5,939,525 4,125,000 5,939,525 4,125,000
Deposits		3,372,132 8,039,050 240,136 263,136
Prepayments		1,246,385 2,738,635 139,323 2,698,028
			10,609,327 15,302,059 6,370,269 7,485,538
Included in non-trade receivables of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM31,061 (2021: RM343,400)
due from a company in which a Director has interest which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
Included in advances to suppliers of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM5,939,525 (2021:
RM4,125,000) due from a company in which Directors have interest.
In prior financial year, included in deposits of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM13,000 due from a
company in which Directors have interest.
Included in deposits of the Group is an amount of RM449,104 (2021: RM6,357,289) paid for acquisition of
subsidiaries.
In prior financial year, included in prepayments of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM2,472,664 paid
for acquisition of plant and machinery, where the plant and machinery have yet delivered to the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
101
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
11. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Cash in hand		19,825 12,180 16,500 12,180
Cash at bank		10,551,918 24,417,362 9,172,862 24,351,821
Fixed deposits with licensed banks		 10,372,962 15,037,791 10,372,962 15,037,791
Presented in statements of financial
 
position		20,944,705 39,467,333 19,562,324 39,401,792
Less: Fixed deposits pledged with
	 
licensed banks		 (10,371,917) (15,036,763) (10,371,917) (15,036,763)
Presented in statements of cash flows		 10,572,788 24,430,570 9,190,407 24,365,029
The fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company amounted to RM10,371,917 (2021:
RM15,036,763) are pledged as securities for banking facilities granted to the Group and the Company.
The interest rates of fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company ranged from 1.45% to
2.10% (2021: 1.60% to 1.88%) per annum and matured within 1 to 3 (2021: 1 to 3) months.
12. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			Units Units RM RM
Issued and fully paid with
  no par value:-
Brought forward		
1,018,974,904 718,974,904 88,700,686 59,064,731
Issuance pursuant to conversion
  of redeemable convertible
 
preference shares		– 300,000,000 – 30,000,000
Share issuance expenses		– – – (364,045)
Carried forward		1,018,974,904 1,018,974,904 88,700,686 88,700,686
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual assets.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
102
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
12. SHARE CAPITAL (CONT’D)
In prior financial year, the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital was increased from RM59,064,731 to
RM88,700,686 pursuant to the following:-
(i) 300,000,000 new ordinary shares arising from the conversion of redeemable convertible preference shares as
follows:-
					
Conversion Number of
					 price shares issued
					
RM
Redeemable convertible preference shares			 0.05 300,000,000
(ii) Cash of RM15,000,000; and
(iii) Share issuance expenses amounted to RM364,045.
13. REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE SHARES (“RCPS”)
		 Group and Company
					
Number of
					
shares Amount
					
Units RM
Equity component recognised under equity:-
At 1.10.2020				
300,000,000 15,000,000
Redemption during the financial year				 (300,000,000) (15,000,000)
At 30.9.2021/30.9.2022				– –
In prior financial year, the Company fully redeemed the entire 300,000,000 redeemable convertible preference
shares (“RCPS”) at a conversion price of RM0.05 per RCPS for a total redemption sum of RM15,000,000, together
with the issuance of 300,000,000 ordinary shares in cash for RM0.05 per ordinary share in the share capital of the
Company.
The salient features of the RCPS are as follows:-
(a) The RCPS holders shall have the right to convert all (and not part) of the RCPS into fully paid ordinary shares
in the Company through surrendering for cancellation of two (2) RCPS for one (1) ordinary share, or one (1)
RCPS together with RM0.05 in cash for one (1) ordinary share in the Company.
(b) The tenure of the RCPS is for five (5) years from the date of issuance of the RCPS.
(c) The RCPS are redeemable for cash at the option of the Company at any time during the tenure of the RCPS
on the basis of RM0.05 for every one (1) RCPS.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
103
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
13. REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE SHARES (“RCPS”) (CONT’D)
The salient features of the RCPS are as follows (cont’d):-
(d) The RCPS holders are not entitled to any dividends declared or paid by the Company for its ordinary shares.
(e) The RCPS holders do not carry any right to vote at any general meeting of the Company except on any
proposal to wind up the Company, during the winding up of the Company and on any proposal that affects the
rights and privileges of the RCPS holder.
(f) The RCPS holders do not carry any rights to participate in the profits or surplus assets of the Company.
14. WARRANT RESERVES
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Warrant reserves				8,719,341 8,719,341
On 26 November 2019, the Company issued 238,797,710 free detachable warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant
for every two (2) rights shares subscribed, and 58,290,350 free detachable warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant
for every two (2) ordinary shares subscribed upon issuance of settlement shares.
The main features of the warrants are as follows:-
			 Tenure Issue Expiry Exercise
			
(years) date date price
						
RM
Warrant B 2019/2024		 5 28.11.2019 25.11.2024 0.10
The warrants may be exercised at any time during the tenure of the warrants of five (5) years including and
commencing from the issue date of the warrants and ending on the expiry date. Each warrant carries the entitlement
to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the Company at the exercise price of RM0.10 each stated above and
shall be satisfied fully in cash and shall be subject to adjustments in accordance with the respective Deed Polls.
Subject to the provision in the respective Deed Polls, the exercise price and the number of warrants held by each
warrant holder shall be adjusted by the Board of Directors of the Company in consultation with the adviser and
certification of the external auditors, in the event of alteration to the share capital of the Company.
The fair value allocated to the warrants reserve is derived by adjusting the proceeds of the above issuance to the
fair value of the shares and warrants on a proportionate basis.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
104
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
14. WARRANT RESERVES (CONT’D)
The movement of the warrants during the financial year is as follows:-
Number of units
			At 			At
			1.10.2021 Issued Exercised 30.9.2022
Warrant B 2019/2024		 267,808,360 – – 267,808,360
15. LEASE LIABILITIES
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the financial year:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
As at 1 October 		 8,728,540 9,396,482 8,728,540 9,396,482
Additions		
656,100 – – –
Termination		 (73,105) (29,073) (73,105) (29,073)
Accretion of interest		323,365 350,355 323,365 350,355
Payments		 (942,528) (989,224) (942,528) (989,224)
As at 30 September		8,692,372 8,728,540 8,036,272 8,728,540
Represented by:-
Current		653,647 677,366 653,647 677,366
Non-current		8,038,725 8,051,174 7,382,625 8,051,174
			8,692,372 8,728,540 8,036,272 8,728,540
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.
The interest rate of lease liabilities of the Group and Company are ranging from 3.00% to 3.86% and 3.86% (2021:
3.86% and 3.86%) per annum respectively.
The Group and Company have total cash outflows for leases of RM1,012,348 (2021: RM1,078,743).
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise lease liabilities for short-term leases (leases with an
expected term of 12 months or less) or for leases of low-value assets. Payments made under such leases are
expensed on straight-line basis. In addition, certain variable lease payments are not permitted to be recognised as
lease liabilities and are expensed as incurred.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
105
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
15. LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The expenses relating to payments not included in the measurement of the lease liabilities are as follows:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Low-value assets				10,029 16,516
Short-term leases				59,791 73,003
					69,820 89,519
16. TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms ranged from cash term to 60 days (2021:
cash term to 60 days).
Included in trade payables of the Group of the Company is an amount of RM378,241 (2021: RM1,989,183) due from
a company in which a Director has interest.
17. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Non-trade payables 		470,931 581,999 175,782 577,912
Accrual of expenses 		411,790 624,158 368,802 612,158
Deposit received 		 130,500 91,500 130,500 91,500
			1,013,221 1,297,657 675,084 1,281,570
Included in non-trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM256,441 (2021: RMNil) due to a Director of
subsidiaries which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Included in non-trade payables of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM142 (2021: RM365) due to
companies in which certain Directors have interest which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
Included in deposit of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM130,500 (2021: RM91,500) due to a
company in which a Director have interest.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
106
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
18. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Contract liabilities				1,415,038 1,501,453
The contract liabilities refer to advances received from a customer which will be set off against future revenue made
with the Group and the Company.
As at the reporting date, revenue expected to be recognised in the future relating to performance obligations that
are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) of the Group and of the Company is RM1,415,038 (2021: RM1,501,453). The
Group and the Company expected to recognise this revenue over the next 12 months.
19. BORROWINGS
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Secured:-
Bankers’ acceptance 				 – 190,580
The bankers’ acceptance is secured by fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company as
disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
In prior financial year, bankers’ acceptance facilities are repayable within 120 days and bear interest rate at 3.50%
per annum.
 
20. REVENUE
Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods less indirect tax, discounts and returns.
The Group’s and the Company’s revenue disaggregated by pattern of revenue recognition is as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Timing of revenue recognition
At point in time:-
Sale of flour and related products		 62,101,939 51,762,174 62,101,939 51,762,174
Sales of chemical substance		 3,977,521 – – –
			66,079,460 51,762,174 62,101,939 51,762,174
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
107
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
20. REVENUE (CONT’D)
The Group’s and the Company’s revenue disaggregated by pattern of revenue recognition is as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Geographical market
Malaysia		66,079,460 51,762,174 62,101,939 51,762,174
21. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Profit before tax has been determined after charging/(crediting) amongst other, the following items:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Auditor’s remuneration:
- Statutory audit		
104,500 70,500 63,000 62,500
- Others services		9,000 9,500 9,000 9,500
Depreciation of property, plant and
 
equipment		1,662,850 1,783,727 1,644,686 1,783,727
Property, plant and equipment
 
written off		3,579 4,722 – 4,722
Gain on disposal of property, plant
 
and equipment		 – (185) – (185)
Gain on termination of lease		 (2,725) (467) (2,725) (467)
Government grant received		 (4,156) (531,101) (4,156) (531,101)
Interest expense:
- Lease liabilities		323,365 350,355 323,365 350,355
Interest income:
- Fixed deposits 		 (235,171) (210,782) (235,171) (210,782)
- Other interest income		 (201,375) (495,505) (201,375) (495,505)
Realised gain on foreign exchange		 (1,532) (7,794) (1,532) (7,794)
Rental income		 (522,000) (366,000) (522,000) (366,000)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
108
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
22. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Current tax:-
Provision for current financial year		 135,000 170,000 135,000 170,000
(Over)/Under provision for prior
  financial year		 (2,472) – 7,096 –
			132,528 170,000 142,096 170,000
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax expense at the
effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Profit before tax		3,187,994 2,831,144 2,640,234 2,879,100
At Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24%
 
(2021: 24%)		765,119 679,475 633,656 690,984
Tax effects in respect of:-
Expenses not deductible for tax
 
purposes		
102,529 51,681 70,992 40,172
Income not subject to tax		 (125,648) (156) (125,648) (156)
(Over)/Under provision of tax expense
  in prior year		 (2,472) – 7,096 –
Movement of deferred tax assets not
 
recognised		 (607,000) (561,000) (444,000) (561,000)
Total tax expense		132,528 170,000 142,096 170,000
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
109
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
22. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
The components and movement of deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting are as follows:-
Group and Company
					
				 Property, Unutilised
				 plant and capital
				 equipment allowance Total
				RM RM RM
At 1.10.2020			(1,508,000) 1,508,000 –
Recognised in profit or loss			 (250,000) 250,000 –
At 30.9.2021			(1,758,000) 1,758,000 –
Recognised in profit or loss			 (39,000) 39,000 –
At 30.9.2022			(1,797,000) 1,797,000 –
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are not recognised in respect of the following items due to uncertainty of their recoverability:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Unabsorbed business losses		71,104,000 71,832,000 66,556,000 66,604,000
Unutilised capital allowances		1,137,000 2,940,000 1,137,000 2,940,000
Unutilised reinvestment allowances		9,973,000 9,973,000 9,973,000 9,973,000
			82,214,000 84,745,000 77,666,000 79,517,000
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items as they may not have sufficient taxable
profits to be used to offset.
Effective Year of Assessment 2019 as announced in the Annual Budget 2022, the unabsorbed business losses of
the Group and the Company as of 30 September 2019 and thereafter will only be available for carry forward for a
period of 10 consecutive years. Upon expiry of the 10 years, the unabsorbed business losses will be disregarded.
The unutilised capital allowances do not expire under current tax legislation of Malaysia. Unabsorbed business
losses for which no deferred tax assets was recognised will expire at the following year of assessment (“YA”):-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
YA 2028		69,731,000 70,459,000 65,183,000 65,231,000
YA 2029		1,373,000 1,373,000 1,373,000 1,373,000
			71,104,000 71,832,000 66,556,000 66,604,000
 
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
110
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
23. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Group
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
Company and a weighted average number of ordinary shares issued as follows:-
		Group
					2022 2021
Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity
  holders of the Company (RM)				 3,055,466 2,661,144
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 September		 1,018,974,904 794,249,473
Basic earnings per share (sen)				 0.30 0.34
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
Company and a weighted average number of ordinary shares issued have been adjusted for the dilutive effects of
all potential ordinary shares as follows:-
		Group
					2022 2021
Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity
  holders of the Company (RM)				 3,055,466 2,661,144
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 30 September		 1,148,678,394 954,396,181
Diluted earnings per share (sen)				 0.27 0.28
24. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments				 793,100 2,148,483
Directors’ fees				204,000 264,000
Social security contributions				 12,231 40,264
Defined contribution plans				 91,045 327,412
					1,100,376 2,780,159
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
111
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
25. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The details of remuneration received and receivable by the Directors of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year are as follows:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Existing Directors 			
Executive Directors:-			
Salaries and other emoluments				 120,000 455,833
Social security contributions				 941 1,462
Defined contribution plans				 14,400 54,708
					135,341 512,003
Non-executive Directors
Directors’ fees				204,000 264,000
					339,341 776,003
26. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Related party transactions
The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are as follows:-
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		RM RM RM RM
Purchase from companies in which
 
a Director has interest		52,740,109 38,757,117 52,740,109 38,757,117
Sales to a company in which a
  Director has interest		 – 2,649 – 2,649
Disposal of property, plant and
  equipment to a company in
  which a Director has interest		 – 3,145 – 3,145
Payment made on behalf and
  reimbursed from a Director		 5,927 – – –
Rental charged to companies in
  which a Director has interest		 522,000 366,000 522,000 366,000
Payment on behalf and reimbursed
  from a company in which a
 
Director has interest		1,467 2,896 1,467 2,896
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
112
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
26. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONT’D)
(b) Related party balances
The outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at the reporting date are disclosed in
Notes 5, 10, 16 and 17 to the financial statements.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the Group, either directly or indirectly, and entity that provides key
management personnel services to the Group.
Key management includes all the Directors of the Company and certain members of senior management of
the Group.
The remunerations of the Directors are disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The emoluments of other key management personnel are as follow:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Salaries and other emoluments				 132,424 287,401
Defined contribution plans				 15,834 33,806
Social security contributions				 2,112 2,770
					150,370 323,977
27. COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments
The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable operating lease commitments are:-
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Future minimum lease payments payable:-
- Within 1 year				 3,240 3,870
- Between 2 to 5 years				 4,320 7,560
					
7,560 11,430
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
113
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as financial assets and financial liabilities
measured at amortised cost:-
					2022 2021
					RM RM
Group
Financial assets
Other investments				2 2
Trade receivables				7,725,001 5,939,832
Other receivables				3,423,417 8,438,424
Cash and cash equivalents 				 20,944,705 39,467,333
					32,093,125 53,845,591
Financial liabilities
Trade payables				1,136,169 2,094,997
Other payables				1,013,221 1,297,657
Borrowings				
– 190,580
					2,149,390 3,583,234
Company
Financial assets
Other investments				2 2
Trade receivables				7,208,328 5,939,832
Other receivables				291,421 662,510
Amount due from subsidiaries				 23,044,605 6,928,412
Cash and cash equivalents				 19,562,324 39,401,792
					50,106,680 52,932,548
Financial liabilities
Trade payables				
378,241 2,094,997
Other payables				
675,084 1,281,570
Borrowings				
– 190,580
					1,053,325 3,567,147
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
114
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management
The Group and the Company are exposed to financial risks arising from their operations and the use of financial
instruments. Financial risk management policy is established to ensure that adequate resources are available for
the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s business whilst managing their credit risk, liquidity risk,
foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. The Group and the Company operate within clearly defined policies and
procedures that are approved by the Board of Directors to ensure the effectiveness of the risk management process.
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows:-
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default in its contractual obligations resulting in financial
loss to the Group and the Company. The Group and the Company adopt the policy of dealing with customers
of appropriate standing to mitigate credit risk and customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to
credit evaluation.
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows:-
Exposure to credit risk
Maximum exposure of the Group and of the Company to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of
financial assets recognised at reporting date as summarised below:-
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Classes of financial assets:-
Trade receivables				7,725,001 5,939,832
Other receivables				3,423,417 8,438,424
Cash and cash equivalents 				 20,944,705 39,467,333
					32,093,123 53,845,589
		Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
				
Classes of financial assets:-
Trade receivables				7,208,328 5,939,832
Other receivables				291,421 662,510
Amount due from subsidiaries				 23,044,605 6,928,412
Cash and cash equivalents				 19,562,324 39,401,792
					50,106,678 52,932,546
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
115
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risks are as follows (cont’d):-
Receivables
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage their debtors and takes
appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances. The Group’s
and the Company’s debt recovery are as follows:-
(i) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group and the Company will start to initiate together with
treasury team a structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team;
and
(ii) The Group and Company will commence a legal proceeding against the customers who does not adhere
to the restructure of the repayment scheme.
The Group and the Company use provision matrix to measure ECLs for all the past due debts. Credit term
which are past due more than 365 days will be considered as credit impaired.
The Group and the Company assessed the risk of loss based on the following factors:-
(i) Overall past payment trend of customers;
(ii) Financial performances of each individual customers; and
(iii) Gross domestic product rate.
None of the Group’s and the Company’s financial assets are secured by collateral or other credit enhancements.
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure and ECLs on the Group’s and the Company’s
trade receivables:-
			 Gross carrying Loss allowance		 Net
			 amount Collective Individual balances
			RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Current (Not past due)		 5,825,788 – – 5,825,788
1-30 days past due		 1,787,982 (4,198) – 1,783,784
31-60 days past due		 118,980 (22,970) – 96,010
61-90 days past due		 7,301 – – 7,301
More than 90 days past due 		 35,344 (266) (22,960) 12,118
			 7,775,395 (27,434) (22,960) 7,725,001
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
116
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risks are as follows (cont’d):-
Receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure and ECLs on the Group’s and the Company’s
trade receivables (cont’d):-
			 Gross carrying Loss allowance		 Net
			 amount Collective Individual balances
			RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
2021
Current (Not past due)		 4,500,591 – – 4,500,591
1-30 days past due		 1,181,451 (8,625) – 1,172,826
31-60 days past due		 195,303 (2,851) – 192,452
61-90 days past due		 57,110 (1,251) – 55,859
More than 90 days past due 		 55,771 (14,707) (22,960) 18,104
			 5,990,226 (27,434) (22,960) 5,939,832
Company
2022
Current (Not past due)		 5,353,381 – – 5,353,381
1-30 days past due		 1,757,177 (4,198) – 1,752,979
31-60 days past due		 112,820 (22,970) – 89,850
61-90 days past due		– – – –
More than 90 days past due 		 35,344 (266) (22,960) 12,118
			 7,258,722 (27,434) (22,960) 7,208,328
2021
Current (Not past due)		 4,500,591 – – 4,500,591
1-30 days past due		 1,181,451 (8,625) – 1,172,826
31-60 days past due		 195,303 (2,851) – 192,452
61-90 days past due		 57,110 (1,251) – 55,859
More than 90 days past due 		 55,771 (14,707) (22,960) 18,104
			 5,990,226 (27,434) (22,960) 5,939,832
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
117
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risks are as follows (cont’d):-
Receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
The Group and the Company use three categories to reflect its credit risk and how the loss allowance is
determined for each of those categories for financial assets other than trade receivables. A summary of the
assumptions underpinning the Group’s and the Company’s expected credit loss model is as follows:-
Category Definition of categories
Basis of recognising
expected credit loss
Performing Receivables have a low risk of default and
a strong capacity to meet contractual cash
flows.
12 months expected credit loss
Underperforming Receivables for which there is a significant
increase in credit risk due to actual or
expected significant adverse changes in
business, financial or economic conditions
that are expected to cause a significant
change to the debtor’s ability to meet its
obligations.
Lifetime expected credit loss
Non-performing Receivables which are credit-impaired when
one or more events that have a detrimental
impact on the estimated future cash flows
have occurred.
Lifetime expected credit loss
Based on the above, loss allowance is derived as follows:-
(i) the likelihood that the debtor would not be able to repay during the contractual period;
(ii) the percentage of contractual cash flows that will not be collected if default happens; and
(iii) the outstanding amount that is exposed to default risk.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
118
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risks are as follows (cont’d):-
Credit risk concentration
In respect of trade receivables, the Group and the Company are exposed to significant credit risk exposure
to a group of counterparties having similar characteristics of which for 27% and 29% (2021: 25% and 25%)
of total Group’s and Company’s trade receivables were due from 2 and 2 (2021: 1 and 1) major customer(s)
respectively.
In respect of other receivables, the Group and the Company are not exposed to any significant credit risk
exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
Intercompany balances
The Company provides unsecured advances to subsidiaries and monitors their results regularly.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
position.
The Company has not recognised any loss allowance as the subsidiaries have good payment records with the
Company with no history of default.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advances to subsidiaries are not
recoverable and the risk of default is expected to be zero.
Cash and cash equivalents
The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable
financial institutions with high quality external credit ratings and have no history of default. Consequently, the
Group and the Company are of the view that the allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as
and when they fall due.
In managing its exposures to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables, borrowings, and finance
lease liabilities, the Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities
deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet
its liabilities as and when they fall due.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
119
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(b) Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities
The following financial liabilities of the Group and of the Company are subjected to liquidity risk:-
		 Maturity
		 Current Non-current
		 Carrying Contractual Within Between More than
		 amount cash flows 1 year 2 to 5 years 5 years
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities 8,692,372 10,644,484 952,363 3,928,446 5,763,675
Trade payables 1,136,169 1,136,169 1,136,169 – –
Other payables 1,013,221 1,013,221 1,013,221 – –
		 10,841,762 12,793,874 3,101,753 3,928,446 5,763,675
2021
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 190,580 190,580 190,580 – –
Lease liabilities 8,728,540 11,005,912 1,002,528 3,900,174 6,103,210
Trade payables 2,094,997 2,094,997 2,094,997 – –
Other payables 1,297,657 1,297,657 1,297,657 – –
		 12,311,774 14,589,146 4,585,762 3,900,174 6,103,210
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
120
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(b) Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities (cont’d)
The following financial liabilities of the Group and of the Company are subjected to liquidity risk (cont’d):-
		 Maturity
		 Current Non-current
		 Carrying Contractual Within Between More than
		 amount cash flows 1 year 2 to 5 years 5 years
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Company
2022
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities 8,036,272 9,988,384 952,363 3,928,446 5,107,575
Trade payables 378,241 378,241 378,241 – –
Other payables 675,084 675,084 675,084 – –
		 9,089,597 11,041,709 2,005,688 3,928,446 5,107,575
2021
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 190,580 190,580 190,580 – –
Lease liabilities 8,728,540 11,005,912 1,002,528 3,900,174 6,103,210
Trade payables 2,094,997 2,094,997 2,094,997 – –
Other payables 1,281,570 1,281,570 1,281,570 – –
		 12,295,687 14,573,059 4,569,675 3,900,174 6,103,210
The above amounts reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows, which may differ from the carrying values
of the financial liabilities at the reporting date.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
121
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(c) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on investments that are denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of the Group and of the Company. The currency giving rise to
this risk is primarily United States Dollar (“USD”).
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end
of the reporting period was:-
Group and Company		
						
Denominated
						
in USD
						
RM
2021
Other receivables					
1,548,830
Other payables					
(68,267)
						
1,480,563
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s and of the Company’s profit for the financial
year to a reasonably possible change in the USD exchange rates against the functional currency of the Group
and of the Company, with all other variables held constant.
Group and Company
		 Increase/(Decrease)
		 of equity/profit
		 for the financial year
					2022 2021
					RM RM
USD/RM:-
Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)				 – 14,806
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)				 – (14,806)
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the financial year depending on the volume of overseas
transactions. Nonetheless, the analysis above is considered to be representative of the Group’s and of the
Company’s exposures to foreign currency risk.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
122
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(d) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial
instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s and the Company’s fixed rate borrowing are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to
changes in interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of
change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The Group’s and the Company’s interest rate management objective is to manage the interest expenses
consistent with maintaining an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate fluctuation. In order to achieve this
objective, the Group and the Company target a fixed debt based on assessment of its existing exposure and
desired interest rate profile.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments,
based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:-
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset
Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 10,372,962 15,037,791
Financial liabilities
Bankers’ acceptance				
– (190,580)
Lease liabilities				
(8,692,372) (8,728,540)
Net financial asset				 1,680,590 6,118,671
		Company
				2022 2021
				RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset					
Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 10,372,962 15,037,791
					
Financial liabilities					
Bankers’ acceptance				
– (190,580)
Lease liabilities				
(8,036,272) (8,728,540)
Net financial asset				 2,336,690 6,118,671
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
123
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy of the major areas of treasury
activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
(d) Interest rate risk (cont’d)
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss, and the Group and the Company do not designate derivatives as hedging instruments
under a fair value hedge accounting model. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting
period would not affect profit or loss.
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group is principally involved in flour milling and trading of its related products.
No products and services segment information and geographical information are presented as the Financial
Controller views the Group as a single reportable segment and all are operated in Malaysia.
The following are major customers with revenue equal or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue:-
					2022 2021
					RM RM
		 Segment
Customer A Flour milling and trading			 30,556,998 22,545,756
30. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair value information has not been disclosed for the Group’s and the Company’s investment in equity instruments
that is carried at cost because fair value cannot be measured reliably. This equity instrument represents ordinary
shares that is not quoted on any market and does not have any comparable industry peer that is listed. In addition,
the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates derived from valuation techniques is significant.
31. FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
As at the reporting date, the Group and the Company have no financial instruments that are measured subsequent
to initial recognition at fair value and hence fair value hierarchy is not presented.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
124
Notes to the Financial Statements
- 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
(cont’d)
32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that they maintain
a strong credit and financially prudent capital ratios in order to support their current business as well as future
expansion so as to maximise the shareholders’ value.
The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and make adjustment to it, in light of changes in
economic condition including the interest rate movements. To maintain and adjust capital structure, the Group and
the Company may adjust dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
There were no changes in the Group’s and the Company’s approach to capital management during the financial
year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
125
Total number of Issued Shares : 1,018,974,904 Ordinary Shares
Class of Equity Securities : Ordinary Shares (“shares”)
Voting Right : One vote for every share held
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE OF SHAREHOLDERS
		 No. of		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings		 Holders % Shares %
Less than 100		 87 2.21 1,885 0
100 – 1,000		 917 23.31 813,683 0.08
1,001 – 10,000		 1,597 40.60 7,837,799 0.77
10,001 – 100,000		 1,028 26.13 40,464,616 3.97
100,001 – less than 5% of issued shares		 301 7.65 362,480,921 35.57
5% and above of issued shares		 4 0.10 607,376,000 59.61
Total		 3,934 100.00 1,018,974,904 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders)
No. of Ordinary Shares
		 Direct		Indirect
Name of Substantial Shareholders 		 Interest % Interest %
Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd.		 300,000,000 29.44 – –
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 200,740,000 19.70 300,000,000(a) 29.44
Yau Ming Teck		 58,500,000 5.74 – –
CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd.		 58,136,000 5.71 – –
Chia Weng Lock		 8,330,000 0.82 58,136,000(b) 5.71
Notes:-
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 30 December 2022
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
126
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 30 December 2022
(cont’d)
DIRECTOR’S INTEREST AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings)
No. of Ordinary Shares
		 Direct		Indirect
Name of Directors		 Interest % Interest %
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 		 200,740,000 19.70 300,000,000(a) 29.44
Yau Ming Teck		 58,500,000 5.74 – –
Lee Wai Fun		 33,912,000 3.33 – –
Chia Weng Lock		 8,330,000 0.82 58,136,000(b) 5.71
Mohd Rasli Bin Muda		 470,000 0.05 – –
Low Koon Min		– – – –
Yap Ee Seong		– – – –
Wong Yau Min		– – – –
Lim Lian Chee		– – – –
Notes:-
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.
 
30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
		 No. of
No. Name Shares Held %
1. LOTUS ESSENTIAL SDN. BHD. 300,000,000 29.44
2. DATUK WONG SAK KUAN 190,740,000 18.72
3. YAU MING TECK 58,500,000 5.74
4. CWL VENTURES SDN. BHD. 58,136,000 5.71
5. LIM CHIUN CHEONG 44,610,520 4.38
6. LEE WAI FUN 33,912,000 3.33
7. WONG PENG KHOON 17,475,620 1.72
8. WONG ONN ONN 12,323,900 1.21
9. WONG MING MING 10,763,900 1.06
10. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 10,000,000 0.98
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WONG SAK KUAN
11. TOH YAN TAI 9,670,400 0.95
12. CHAN PECK YIN 8,805,580 0.86
13. CHIA WENG LOCK 8,330,000 0.82
14. CHONG FONG TAI 8,100,000 0.79
15. TEO SOON KEE 8,000,000 0.79
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
127
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 30 December 2022
(cont’d)
30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022 (cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
		 No. of
No. Name Shares Held %
16. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 7,613,500 0.75
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KUAN TECK
17. YAU CHI HANG 7,582,030 0.74
18. LEE CHENG CHENG 7,500,000 0.74
19. AUGUSTINE KOK HWAI NAM 7,000,000 0.69
20. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 6,250,000 0.61
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR SHORAKA CAPGROUP SDN. BHD.
21. TOH WAH CHONG 5,861,300 0.57
22. WONG HUEY PING 5,400,000 0.53
23. EBS TECH.SDN.BHD. 5,000,000 0.49
24. WONG KOON WAI 4,644,170 0.46
25. NEO KIM HOCK 4,471,700 0.44
26. SIM SOH POW 4,320,000 0.42
27. TEOH HOOI LEE 3,800,000 0.37
28. LEE WAI FONG 3,338,000 0.33
29. WOO WAI ONN @ FOO WAI ONN 3,067,500 0.30
30. KOH KIM HEOK 2,940,000 0.29
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
128
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT HOLDINGS
As at 30 December 2022
Type of Securities : Warrants B (“Warrants”)
No. of Warrants Issued : 267,808,360
Exercise Price : RM0.10
Exercise Period : 26 November 2019 to 25 November 2024
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANTS HOLDINGS
		 No. of		 No. of
Size of Holdings		Warrant Holders % Warrants %
Less than 100		 11 2.18 436 0
100 - 1,000 		 17 3.35 9,810 0
1,001 - 10,000 		 133 26.23 740,940 0.29
10,001 - 100,000 		 224 44.18 9,867,950 3.68
100,001 – less than 5% of issued warrants		 116 22.88 90,017,264 33.61
5% and above of issued warrants		 6 1.18 167,171,960 62.42
Total		 507 100.00 267,808,360 100.00
DIRECTORS' WARRANT HOLDINGS AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022
(As per the Register of Directors’ Warrant Holdings)
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
		 No. of 		 No. of
Name of Directors 		 Warrants % Warrants %
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 		 86,725,000 32.38 – –
Yau Ming Teck		 21,750,000 8.12 – –
Lee Wai Fun		 16,820,000 6.28 – –
Chia Weng Lock		 4,000,000 1.49 24,015,000(a) 8.97
Mohd Rasli Bin Muda		– – – –
Low Koon Min		– – – –
Yap Ee Seong		– – – –
Wong Yau Min		– – – –
Lim Lian Chee		– – – –
Note:-
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
129
Analysis of Warrant Holdings
As at 30 December 2022
(cont’d)
THIRTY LARGEST WARRANT HOLDERS AS AT 30 DECEMBER 2022
(without aggregating the securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same registered holder)
		 No. of
No. Name Warrants Held %
1. DATUK WONG SAK KUAN 66,725,000 24.92
2. CWL VENTURES SDN. BHD. 24,015,000 8.97
3. YAU MING TECK 21,750,000 8.12
4. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 20,000,000 7.47
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WONG SAK KUAN (7000571)
5. LIM CHIUN CHEONG 17,861,960 6.67
6. LEE WAI FUN 16,820,000 6.28
7. WONG PENG KHOON 7,482,160 2.79
8. TOH WAH CHONG 6,029,400 2.25
9. TOH YAN TAI 4,907,400 1.83
10. RHB CAPITAL NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 4,745,100 1.77
- LIM WILLIE
11. CHONG FONG TAI 4,308,000 1.61
12. WONG HUEY PING 4,200,001 1.57
13. CHIA WENG LOCK 4,000,000 1.49
14. YAU CHI HANG 3,845,210 1.44
15. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 3,282,000 1.23
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM HUNG THIAM (7000997)
16. TEO SOON KEE 3,000,000 1.12
17. LEE CHENG CHENG 1,981,500 0.74
18. WONG SWEE YIN 1,665,100 0.62
19. YEONG KOW CHAI @ YONG KOK SHIANG 1,463,000 0.55
20. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 1,450,000 0.54
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HOO YEEK FOO
21. WONG KOON WAI 1,322,090 0.49
22. KOH KIM HEOK 1,225,000 0.46
23. WONG TIN WOOI 1,180,001 0.44
24. LAI CHEAN WEI 1,174,500 0.44
25. CIMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 1,132,000 0.42
- CIMB FOR BEH CHERN WEI (MA CHENGWEI) (PB)
26. LING YOKE HOOI 1,088,700 0.41
27. WOO WAI ONN @ FOO WAI ONN 1,084,000 0.40
28. KWONG SIEW TOON 920,000 0.34
29. WONG KWEE FONG 906,800 0.34
30. TAN ENG MENG 790,000 0.29
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
130
A summary of LKFM-owned properties is set out as below:
Location Tenure Date of
Acquisition/
Date of
Revaluation
Area Description Age of
Building
Net Carrying
Amount
RM’000
Pajakan Negeri
550, Lot 1863 Mukim
Sungai Karang,
Kuantan, Pahang.
21 years and 3.5 months
lease expiring on 30
December 2027
15 September
1985
25,425 sq.
metres
Office and
Factory
37 years and
30 years
4,333
Pajakan Negeri
550, Lot 1863 Mukim
Sungai Karang,
Kuantan, Pahang.
17 years and 7 months
lease expiring on 30
December 2027
1 June 2010 4,253 sq.
metres
Wheat silos 20 years 280
LIST OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2022
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
131
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Thirty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (“38th AGM” or ”Meeting”) of LOTUS KFM
BERHAD (“LOTUS” or “the Company”) will be held at Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden Golf Club, IOI Resort
City, 62502 Putrajaya on Friday, 17 March 2023 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, to transact the following
businesses:-
A G E N D A
As Ordinary Business:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30
September 2022 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM300,000 for
the period commencing from the date immediately after this 38th AGM until the
next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 85 of
the Company’s Constitution:
i. Datuk Wong Sak Kuan
ii. Mr. Chia Weng Lock
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 91 of the
Company’s Constitution:
i. Mr. Wong Yau Min
ii. Mr. Lim Lian Chee
5. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
PLEASE REFER TO
EXPLANATORY NOTE 1
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 5
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 6
As Special Business:
To consider and if thought fit, pass with or without any modifications, the following
resolutions:
6. GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR THE DIRECTORS TO ALLOT AND ISSUE
SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT
2016 (“ACT”)
“THAT subject always to the Constitution of the Company, the Act, the Main Market
Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals of the relevant governmental/
regulatory authorities, where required, the Directors of the Company, be and are
hereby authorised and empowered pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act,
to issue and allot new ordinary shares in the Company to such persons, at any
time, and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors
may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of
shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number
of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at any point
of time (“Mandate”) AND THAT the Directors be and also empowered to obtain
the approval for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued
on Bursa Securities AND THAT such authority shall continue in force until the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held next
after the approval was given or at the expiry of the period within which the next
AGM is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is the earlier.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 7
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
132
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act read together with the Company’s
Constitution, approval be given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights conferred
upon the shareholders of the Company AND THAT the Board is exempted from
the obligation to offer such new Shares first to the existing shareholders of the
Company in respect of the issuance and allotment of new Shares pursuant to the
Mandate.
AND FURTHER THAT the new Shares to be issued pursuant to the Mandate,
shall, upon issuance and allotment, rank pari passu in all respects with the
existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall not be entitled to
any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that which
may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new Shares.”
7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE AND/
OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’
MANDATE”)
“THAT, authority be and is hereby given in line with Paragraph 10.09 of the
Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, for the
Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into any of the recurrent related party
transactions with the related party as set out in Section 2.8 of the Circular to
Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate
dated 18 January 2023 which are necessary for the day-to-day operations of the
Company and/or its subsidiaries within the ordinary course of business of the
Company and/or its subsidiaries, made on an arm’s length basis and on normal
commercial terms which are those generally available to the public and are not
detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company;
AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
resolution until:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general
meeting at which the ordinary resolution for the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate was passed, at which time it shall lapse, unless the
authority is renewed by a resolution passed at the next AGM; or
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after that date it is
required by law to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall
not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4)
of the Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of
the Company at a general meeting,
whichever is earlier.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised
to do all acts, deeds and things as they may be deemed fit, necessary, expedient
and/or appropriate in order to implement the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate with full power to assent to all or any conditions, variations, modifications
and/or amendments in any manner as may be required by any relevant authorities
or otherwise and to deal with all matters relating thereto and to take all such
steps and to execute, sign and deliver for and on behalf of the Company all such
documents, agreements, arrangements and/or undertakings, with any party or
parties and to carry out any other matters as may be required to implement, finalise
and complete, and give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate in the best interest of the Company.”
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 8
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
133
8. PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE COMPANY
“THAT the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Company as set out
in “Appendix A”, be approved and adopted with immediate effect AND THAT the
Directors and/or Secretary of the Company be authorised to take all steps as are
necessary and expedient in order to implement, finalise and give full effect to the
said proposed amendments for and on behalf of the Company.”
9. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
Special Resolution
By order of the Board
TEA SOR HUA (MACS 01324) (SSM PC NO.: 201908001272)
Company Secretary
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
18 January 2023
Notes:
i. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend
and vote at the Meeting. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of
his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
ii. A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A member may appoint any person to be his proxy. A proxy
appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak and vote at the Meeting.
iii. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in
writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
iv. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act 1991, it may appoint at least one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the
Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
v. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of
multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
vi. To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made via hardcopy or by electronic means in the following manners
and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
Meeting or at any adjournment thereof at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:-
(a) In Hardcopy Form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level
7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah
Persekutuan, Malaysia.
(b) By Electronic Means
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@sshsb.com.my.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
134
vii. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 63 of the Company’s Constitution to issue a General
Meeting Record of Depositors as at 9 March 2023. Only members whose name appears in the Record of Depositors as at
9 March 2023 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
viii. All the resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by poll.
ix. The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
x. Given the constantly evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements of the
Meeting at short notice. Kindly check Bursa Securities’ website and the Company’s website at https://www.kfmb.com.my/
for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO ORDINARY AND SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2022
This Agenda is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require the formal
approval of members for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, Agenda No. 1 will not be put forward for voting.
2. Item 2 of the Agenda – Directors’ Fees and Benefits
The estimated Directors’ fees and benefits are calculated based on the current Board size and the number of scheduled
Board and Committee meetings to be held. This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and benefits for the
period commencing from the date immediately after this 38th AGM until the date of the next AGM to be held in the year
2024. In the event the proposed amount is insufficient due to more meetings or an enlarged Board size, approval will be
sought at the next AGM for the shortfall.
3. Items 3 and 4 of the Agenda – Re-election of Directors
Clause 85 of the Company’s Constitution provides that one-third (1/3) of the Directors of the Company for the time being
or if their number is not a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third (1/3) shall retire by rotation at an AGM
of the Company and be eligible for re-election provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once every
three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. Hence, two (2) out of seven (7) Directors of the Company (excluding Mr.
Wong Yau Min and Mr. Lim Lian Chee who will be retiring pursuant to Clause 91 of the Company’s Constitution) are to retire
in accordance with Clause 85 of the Company’s Constitution.
Clause 91 of the Company’s Constitution provides that any Director appointed either to fill a casual vacancy or as an
addition to the existing Directors shall hold office only until the next AGM, and shall then be eligible for re-election but shall
not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors to retire by rotation at such meeting.
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan and Mr. Chia Weng Lock will retire by rotation in accordance with Clause 85 of the Company’s
Constitution whereas Mr. Wong Yau Min and Mr. Lim Lian Chee will retire in accordance with Clause 91 of the Company’s
Constitution. All these retiring Directors being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 38th AGM.
The Board has endorsed the Nomination Committee’s recommendation to seek for the shareholders’ approval to re-elect
the said retiring Directors as they possess the required skill sets to facilitate and contribute to the Board’s effectiveness
and value.
The said retiring Directors had abstained from all deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for re-election
at the Board meeting.
The details and profiles of the said retiring Directors are provided in the Directors’ Profile of the Company’s Annual Report
2022.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
135
4. Item 6 of the Agenda - General Authority for the Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76
of the Act
The Company had at its Thirty-Seventh AGM held on 21 March 2022 (“37th AGM”), obtained a general mandate pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act from its shareholders, to empower the Directors to issue and allot shares in the Company
to such persons, at any time, and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes, as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not exceed 20% of the total
number of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares) at any point in time. As at the date of the notice, the
Company did not issue any shares pursuant to the said mandate.
The Ordinary Resolution 7 proposed under item 6 of the Agenda, is a renewal of the general mandate for issuance and
allotment of shares by the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. This Ordinary Resolution, if passed,
will provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares in the Company up to
an amount not exceeding in total ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for such
purposes as the Directors consider would be in the interest of the Company. This would avoid any delay and cost involved
in convening a general meeting to approve the issuance and allotment of such shares. This authority, unless revoked or
varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or the expiration of the period
within which the next AGM is required by law to be held, whichever is earlier.
This general mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for issuance and allotment of shares for any possible fund-
raising activities, including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment
project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s).
Pursuant to Section 85 of the Act and the Company’s Constitution, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any
new shares in the Company which rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company. This Ordinary Resolution 7,
if passed, will exclude the shareholders’ pre-emptive right to be offered new shares to be issued by the Company.
5. Item 7 of the Agenda – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate
The Ordinary Resolution 8 proposed under Item 7 of the Agenda, if passed, will renew the authority given to the Company
and/or its subsidiaries a mandate to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue and/or trading nature
pursuant to Paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities. The mandate, unless revoked
or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 18 January 2023 for further information.
6. Item 8 of the Agenda – Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the Company (“Proposed Amendments”)
The Proposed Amendments are mainly to streamline the Constitution with the relevant regulatory requirements as well as
to enhance administrative efficiency.
The Proposed Amendments shall take effect once the special resolution has been passed by a majority of not less than
seventy-five per centum (75%) of such members who are entitled to vote and do vote in person or by proxy at the Meeting.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
136
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD (“THE COMPANY”)
This is the Appendix A referred to in Agenda 8 of the Notice of Thirty-Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company
dated 18 January 2023.
Clause No. Existing Clause Proposed Clause
54
Offer of new
Shares
Subject to any direction to the contrary that may
be given by the Company in general meeting,
any new shares or other convertible Securities
from time to time to be created shall, before
they are issued, be offered to such persons as
at the date of the offer are entitled to receive
notices from the Company of general meetings
in proportion, as nearly as the circumstances
admit, to the amount of the existing shares or
Securities to which they are entitled. The offer
shall be made by notice specifying the number
of shares or Securities offered, limiting a time
within which the offer, if not accepted, will be
deemed to be declined, and, after the expiration
of that time, or on the receipt of any intimation
from the person to whom the offer is made that
he declines to accept the shares or Securities
offered, the Directors may dispose of those
shares and/or Securities in such manner as
they think most beneficial to the Company. The
Directors may likewise so dispose of any new
shares and/or Securities which (by reason of the
ratio which the new shares or Securities bear to
shares or Securities held by persons entitled to
any offer of new shares or Securities) cannot,
in the opinion of the Directors be conveniently
offered under this Constitution. Notwithstanding
the above, the Directors shall not be required to
offer any new ordinary shares for the time being
unissued and not allotted and any new shares or
other convertible securities from time to time to
be created to the holders of the existing shares
where the said shares or securities are to be
issued as consideration or part consideration
for the acquisition of shares or assets by the
Company.
Subject to any direction to the contrary that may
be given by the Company in general meeting,
any new shares or other convertible Securities
from time to time to be created shall, before
they are issued, be offered to such persons as
at the date of the offer are entitled to receive
notices from the Company of general meetings
in proportion, as nearly as the circumstances
admit, to the amount of the existing shares or
Securities to which they are entitled. The offer
shall be made by notice specifying the number
of shares or Securities offered, limiting a time
within which the offer, if not accepted, will be
deemed to be declined, and, after the expiration
of that time, or on the receipt of any intimation
from the person to whom the offer is made that
he declines to accept the shares or Securities
offered, the Directors may dispose of those
shares and/or Securities in such manner as
they think most beneficial to the Company. The
Directors may likewise so dispose of any new
shares and/or Securities which (by reason of the
ratio which the new shares or Securities bear to
shares or Securities held by persons entitled to
any offer of new shares or Securities) cannot,
in the opinion of the Directors be conveniently
offered under this Constitution. Notwithstanding
the above, the Directors shall not be required to
offer any new ordinary shares for the time being
unissued and not allotted and any new shares or
other convertible securities from time to time to
be created to the holders of the existing shares
where the said shares or securities are to be
issued as consideration or part consideration
for the acquisition of shares or assets by the
Company.
Appendix A
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
137
Clause No. Existing Clause Proposed Clause
54
Offer of new
Shares
For the avoidance of doubt, where the
approval of Members is obtained in a general
meeting for any issuance of shares or
convertible securities, including approvals
obtained for implementation of a scheme
that involves a new issuance of shares or
other convertible securities to employees
of the Company and its subsidiaries and
approval obtained under Sections 75 and 76
of the Act, such approval shall be deemed to
be a direction to the contrary given in general
meeting which will render the pre-emptive
rights above inapplicable.
In any case and in respect of any issuance
of shares or convertible securities, the pre-
emptive rights of Members are strictly as
contained in the Constitution and accordingly,
the provisions of Section 85 of the Act in
respect of pre-emptive rights to new shares,
shall not apply.
125A
Validity of
Electronic /
Digital
Signature
New provision For the avoidance of doubt, any document
or instrument transmitted by any technology
purporting to include a signature and/or
electronic or digital signature of any of the
following persons:
(a) a holder of Shares;
(b) a Director (including Alternate Director);
(c) a committee member;
(d) in the case of a corporation, which is a
holder of shares, its director or secretary or
a duly appointed attorney or duly authorised
representative,
shall in the absence of express evidence to the
contrary available to the person relying on such
document or instrument at the relevant time,
be deemed to be a document or instrument
signed by such person in the terms in which it
is received.
		
Appendix A
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
138
ADMINISTRATIVE
NOTES
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE THIRTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF LOTUS KFM
BERHAD (“LOTUS” OR “COMPANY”) (“38TH AGM” OR “MEETING”)
Date Time Venue
Friday, 17 March 2023 10.00 a.m. Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden Golf
Club, IOI Resort City, 62502 Putrajaya
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
1. A member who is entitled to participate and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint more than one (1) proxy
to participate and vote in his/her stead. If you are not able to participate in the 38th AGM, you are encouraged to
appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Proxy Form.
2.		
The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hardcopy form or by electronic means in the following manner and
must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
Meeting or any adjournment thereof:-
(i) In hardcopy form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala
Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic form
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@sshsb.com.
my.
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
3. If you wish to participate in the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any proxy form for the Meeting. You will not
be allowed to participate in the 38th AGM together with the proxy(ies) appointed by you.
4. If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the Meeting and subsequently decide to personally participate in
the Meeting, please write in to lily@sshsb.com.my to revoke the earlier appointment of your proxy(ies) at least forty-
eight (48) hours before the commencement of the Meeting. Upon revocation, your proxy(ies) will not be allowed to
participate in the 38th AGM. In such event, kindly advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
139
PROCEDURES OF THE MEETING
In the interest of public health including the well-being of our members, members must cooperate with the following
precautionary measures put in place by our Company should our members or proxies wish to attend the Meeting in
person. Your safety and health are our Company’s top priority.
(a) A member is required to register ahead of the Meeting to allow the Company to make the necessary arrangements in
relation to the Meeting, i.e. infrastructure, logistics and meeting venue(s) to accommodate the meeting participants
by providing the below details by email to info@lotuskfm.com.my:-
i) Full name;
ii) Identity Card or Passport Number;
iii) Contact number (optional – for better co-ordination); and
iv) CDS account number
The date of Record of Depositors for the 38th AGM is 9 March 2023. As such, only members whose names appear
in the Company’s Record of Depositors as at 9 March 2023 shall be entitled to attend the 38th AGM and participate,
speak and vote thereat.
(b) Members are encouraged to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting (or any other person) to act as proxy to attend
and vote at the Meeting on their behalf by submitting the proxy form with predetermined voting instructions.
(c) Members or proxies must sanitise their hands and are strongly advised to wear a face mask if they are attending the
Meeting in person.
(d) Members or proxies are advised to observe/maintain social distancing of at least 1 meter from each other throughout
the Meeting.
(e) Members or proxies are advised to arrive early at the Meeting venue given that the above-mentioned precautionary
measures may cause a delay in the registration process.
(f) NO door gift will be provided to the members/proxies at the Meeting venue and NO refreshment will be served at
the Meeting venue.
(g) The Company will closely monitor the situation and reserve the right to take further measures or short-notice
arrangements as and when appropriate in order to minimise any risk to the Meeting.
(h) Recording/Photography
By participating in this 38th AGM, you agree that no part of the Meeting proceedings may be recorded, photographed,
stored in any retrieval systems, reproduced, transmitted or uploaded in any form, platform or social media or by any
means whether it is mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording or otherwise without the prior written consent
of the Company. The Company reserves the right to take appropriate legal actions against anyone who violates this
rule.
Given the constantly evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements of the 38th
AGM at short notice. Kindly check Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s website and Company’s website at http://www.
kfmb.com.my/ for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
Administrative Notes
(cont’d)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD Registration No. 198401007083 (119598-P)
140
ENQUIRY
If you have any enquiry regarding the 38th AGM, please contact the following persons during office hours from 9.00 a.m.
to 5.30 p.m. on Monday to Friday (except public holidays) prior to the Meeting:-
For Registration matters: For Proxy Form matters:
Name: Ms. Connie
Telephone No.: +603-8959 4883
Email: connie.ng@lotuskfm.com.my
Name: Ms. Lily
Telephone No.: +603-2084 9000
Email: lily@sshsb.com.my
Administrative Notes
(cont’d)
✄
LOTUS KFM BERHAD
198401007083 (119598-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We * NRIC/Passport/Registration No.*
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
with email address mobile phone no.
being a member/members* of LOTUS KFM BERHAD (“the Company”) hereby appoint(s):-
Full Name (in capital letters) NRIC/Passport No.: Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Full Address (in capital letters)
Contact No.:
Email Address:
and*
Full Name (in capital letters) NRIC/Passport No.: Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Full Address (in capital letters)
Contact No.:
Email Address:
or failing him/her*, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our* proxy/proxies* to vote for me/us* on my/our* behalf at the Thirty-Eighth Annual General
Meeting (“38th AGM” or “Meeting”) of the Company to be held at Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden Golf Club, IOI Resort City, 62502
Putrajaya on Friday, 17 March 2023 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate spaces how you wish your votes to be cast. If no specific direction as to vote is given, the Proxy will
vote or abstain from voting at his/her* discretion.
No. Ordinary Resolutions For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM300,000 for the period commencing
from the date immediately after this 38th AGM until the next AGM of the Company.
2. To re-elect Datuk Wong Sak Kuan as Director.
3. To re-elect Mr. Chia Weng Lock as Director.
4. To re-elect Mr. Wong Yau Min as Director.
5. To re-elect Mr. Lim Lian Chee as Director.
6. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company.
7. To approve the general authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act 2016.
8. To approve the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue and/or Trading Nature.
No. Special Resolution For Against
1. To approve the Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the Company.
*  delete whichever is not applicable
Dated this_______________ day of __________________________ 2023 Signature/ Common Seal of Member(s)
NOTES:
i. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote at the Meeting. Where
a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
ii. A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A member may appoint any person to be his proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at
the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak and vote at the Meeting.
iii. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is
a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
iv. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint
at least one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities
account.
v. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
(1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of
each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each
proxy is specified.
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
The Share Registrar
LOTUS KFM BERHAD
198401007083 (119598-P)
c/o Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Fold This Flap For Sealing
1st Fold Here
2nd Fold Here
AFFIX
STAMP
vi. To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made via hardcopy or by electronic means in the following manners and must be received by
the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting or at any adjournment thereof at which the person
named in the appointment proposes to vote:-
(a) In Hardcopy Form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan
Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.
(b) By Electronic Means
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@sshsb.com.my.
vii. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn.
Bhd. in accordance with Clause 63 of the Company’s Constitution to issue a General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 9 March 2023. Only members
whose name appears in the Record of Depositors as at 9 March 2023 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
viii. All the resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by poll.
ix. The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
x. Given the constantly evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements of the Meeting at short notice. Kindly
check Bursa Securities’ website and the Company’s website at https://www.kfmb.com.my/ for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD
Registration No. 198401007083(119598-P)
Unit T2-L3-1 & 3, Level 3 IOI City Tower Two
Lebuh IRC, IOI Resort City
62502 Putrajaya, Malaysia
Tel		 : +603-89594883
Fax		 : +603-89598057
www.kfmb.com.my
