LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
18
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT 2024
Lotus KFM Berhad (“LKFM” or “the Group) prepared this Sustainability Statement to cover
all relevant activities, impacts, and initiatives related to the Group’s economic,
environmental, social, and governance (EESG) efforts. The Sustainability Statement
includes data and information from our operations and subsidiaries for the reporting
period indicated below.
The Group establishes contact as needed with our wide range of stakeholder to ensure
our approach to sustainability is well informed. Our stakeholders include employees,
customers, investors, suppliers, and regulatory bodies.
This Sustainability Statement not only highlights our achievements but also acknowledges
the challenges we face in our continuous sustainability journey. We value stakeholder
feedback and look forward to engaging in constructive discussions to enhance our
sustainability efforts.
This statement has been reviewed and approved by the Sustainability Steering Committee
(SSC) and it serves as an overview of Lotus KFM’s sustainability progress for the Financial
Year Ending (FYE) 2024 – showcasing notable milestones, achievements, and challenges.
Guidelines & References
Main Guide:
Bursa Malaysia Berhad Sustainability Reporting
Guide (3rd Edition)
Supplementary Guides & References:
UNSDGs
The reporting period covered in this
Sustainability Statement is from
1st October 2023 to 30th September 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
19
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024 2
COMPANY PROFILE &
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
This Sustainability Statement covers the following subsidiaries that have significant operations in
Malaysia. The Group’s main corporate office is in Putrajaya, while we have an operating plant based
in Kuantan.
Lotus KFM Berhad
KFM Marketing Sdn Bhd
Lotus KFM Berhad is principally engaged in flour milling and starch
trading. This includes the milling of wheat flour and the trading of
tapioca starch and corn starch. Lotus KFM Berhad’s clients are
primarily from the Food and Paper Product sectors. Lotus KFM
Berhad is also a member of the Flour Millers Association of Malaysia
(FMAM).
KFM Marketing Sdn Bhd is primarily engaged in the business of
trading in industrial-related products.
We excluded LKB Plantation Sdn Bhd and Lotus Plantation Sdn Bhd (as well as its relevant
subsidiaries) from this year’s reporting scope as the plantation business is still new, with operations
still in early stages. We will include these subsidiaries once their operations have matured and
demonstrate measurable impact.
Figure 1: Sustainability Governance Structure
Oversees the development of
Lotus KFM’s sustainability
strategies and key initiatives.
The Board of Directors has the
final say on the Group’s
overall sustainability direction
and sets relevant goals or
targets for the company.
Executes and implements the
policies and practices decided
on by the BOD and the SSC.
The SWG is responsible for the
day-to-day execution of
sustainability initiatives.
Manages the implementation
of sustainability initiatives and
policies. The SSC’s main role
involves planning and
evaluating company strategies
with company resources in
mind to ensure the goals set
by the BOD are pursued.
Sustainability Steering
Committee (SSC)
Sustainability Working
Group (SWG)
Board of
Directors (BOD)
Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC)
Board of Directors (BOD)
Finance Manager Operation Manager
Marketing Manager
Quality Assurance / Quality Control
Finance Manager
Human Resources Manager
Sustainability Working Group (SWG)
Deputy General Manager
Executive Director
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
20
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
KEY STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT
3
Frequency of
Engagement
As Needed
Annually
Quarterly
Monthly
N
A
Q
M
LKFM engages multiple stakeholder groups through
a variety of channels. The Group maintains open
communication lanes in a bid to encourage feedback
from stakeholders. Each stakeholder group focuses
on its respective areas of interest.
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Customer Satisfaction Surveys
• Product or Service Quality
• Customer Service
• Support and Problem Resolution
• Customer Satisfaction / Reviews
• Ethical Sourcing
• Supply Chain Transparency
Customer Feedback /
Complaints
Meetings
Materiality Survey
N
N
N
N
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Training & Development
Programs
• Workplace Safety and Wellbeing
• Training and Career
Development
• Diversity
• Labour Practices and Standards
• Recognition and Rewards
• Human Rights
• Performance Management
Employee Engagement
Activities
Internal Newsletter & Platform
Meetings
Townhalls
Employee Feedback Surveys
Materiality Survey
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Meetings • Vendors / Suppliers Relationship
• Supply Chain Management
• Quality Assurance
• Strategic Partnership
• Communication and
Collaboration
• Sustainable and Ethical Practices
Workshops & Training Sessions
Audits & Assessments
Materiality Survey
Customers
Employees
Vendors /
Suppliers
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
A
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
21
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
KEY STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
4
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Meetings
• Regulatory Reporting and
Compliance
• Rules and Regulation Update
• Corporate Governance
• Participation in Government
Initiatives
• Ethical and Responsible Business
Practices
• Adherence to Labour Laws and
Safety Standards
Regulatory Reporting and
Compliance Submissions
Announcements
Programmes/Events organised
by Regulators & Government
Authorities
Materiality Survey
N
N
N
N
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Annual General Meetings • Financial Performance and
Position
• Company Growth and Outlook
• Company Strategic Direction
• Risk Management
• Ethical and Responsible Business
Practices
Financial Results
Announcements/Reports
Investors Briefings and
Roadshows
Materiality Survey
Methods of Engagement Frequency Areas of Interest
Board Meetings
• Financial Performance and
Position
• Corporate Strategy and Growth
Plans
• Accountability and Governance
• Ethical and Responsible Business
Practices
• Risk Management
Annual General Meetings
Strategic Planning Sessions
Performance Reviews and
Audits
Materiality Survey
Regulators &
Certification
Bodies
Shareholders
Board of
Directors
N
N
N
A
A
Q
Q
M
M
A
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
22
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024 5
MATERIALITY
METHODOLOGY & ANALYSIS
Following Bursa Malaysia's Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd Edition), which mandates the
disclosure of 11 Common Sustainability Matters, we reviewed the Group's sustainability matters
in the previous year. After discussions with the Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) and the
Sustainability Working Committee (SWG), twelve (12) key sustainability matters were deemed
relevant and important to Lotus KFM Berhad.
IDENTIFICATION
Internally, we reviewed the sustainability matters that were
disclosed in LKFM’s 2023 Sustainability Statement to reconsider
their relevance and importance based on the short- and long-term
impact on Lotus KFM’s business.
Externally, we referred to Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting
Guide to ensure that the mandatory sustainability matters were all
included.
STEP 1
PRIORITISATION
Materiality surveys were sent to key internal and external
stakeholders including the Lotus KFM Management Team. This was
done to assess:
• The significance of the impact of each sustainability matter in
the relevant EESG sections.
• The influence of each sustainability matter on the assessment
and decisions of the stakeholders.
• The prioritisation of stakeholder groups (by LKFM Management
Team only)
STEP 2
APPROVAL
The outcomes from the materiality survey were mapped out in the
form of a Materiality Matrix.
The results of this Materiality Matrix were sent to the SSC and the
SWG, as well as the Board of Directors for their approval.
The finalised and approved Materiality Matrix is shown on the next
page.
STEP 3
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
23
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
The Group’s Materiality Matrix was created with the input of the Group’s stakeholders collected
and collated to visually showcase the prioritisation of Lotus KFM’s materiality matters. The closer
a material matter is plotted to the top-right corner of the matrix, the higher priority it is to the
Group and our stakeholders. As Lotus KFM currently operates mainly in the manufacturing sector,
Health & Safety has been identified as the highest priority material matter. This is reflected
below with Health & Safety being the closest to the top right of the matrix.
Lotus KFM’s Materiality Matrix is illustrated below with Zoomed Out and Zoomed In versions
shown for clarity.
� Anti-Corruption
� Data Privacy &
Security
Governance
� Supply Chain
Management
� Customer Health
& Safety /
Product
Responsibility
Economic
� Water
Management
� Waste
Management
� Energy
Management
� Emissions
Management
Environmental
� Health & Safety
� Labour Practices
& Standards
� Community /
Society
� Diversity
Social
MATERIALITY MATRIX
Figure 2: Materiality Matrix Zoomed Out
High
Low
Medium
6
Customer Health & Safety
/ Product Responsibility
Supply Chain Management
Energy Management
Waste Management
Water Management
Emissions Management
Labour Practices & Standards
Diversity
Community / Society
Health & Safety
Anti-Corruption
Data Privacy & Security
60%
65%
70%
75%
80%
85%
90%
95%
100%
60% 65% 70% 75% 80% 85% 90% 95% 100%
Overall Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions (%)
Significance of Group's Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts (%)
Figure 3: Materiality Matrix Zoomed In
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
24
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
ECONOMIC
7
The Economic section of our Sustainability Statement highlights our approach to long-term
financial growth that is aligned with sustainable business practices. We want to focus on
creating value for our stakeholders through responsible management, innovation, and
investment.
By balancing profitability with social and environmental considerations, we hope to enhance
the resilience and competitiveness of our business. This section outlines our approaches for
the following material matters, as well as why they matter to the Group.
Material Matter Why It Matters
Customer Health &
Safety / Product
Responsibility
The Group produces products
that are consumable, hence,
customer health is directly
affected and the wellbeing of our
customers is one of our priorities.
Supply Chain
Management
The Group strives to source its
goods locally as much as possible
to support local businesses within
business needs. This is to foster
economic growth and reduce
reliance on global supply chains.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
25
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY /
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Customer Health & Safety and Product Responsibility are key considerations in our approach to
sustainability. Our aim is to offer products that meet the highest standards of safety, quality,
and ethical responsibility. This involves ensuring that quality assurance/quality control is up to
standard, maintaining constant compliance with regulatory and certification bodies, as well as
continuous improvements to processes; all to minimise risk to customers.
By prioritising safe and responsible product development, we hope to not only protect the
wellbeing of our customers but also foster trust and long-term loyalty.
8
Lotus KFM have had zero product recalls issued for the past three financial years. Product recalls
occur when the need to remove contaminated or unsafe products from the market arises for any
reason. The Group places a high importance on maintaining this figure at zero through the
implementation of the measures listed below.
The Group also recorded zero incidents of non-compliance for the past three financial years. LKFM
holds annual meetings with our regulators and certification bodies to ensure that compliance is
prioritised every year.
Listed below are various initiatives and practices which measure and manage risk in a bid to ensure
our product quality is maintained.
• Control of Monitoring, Measurement &
Cleaning Processes (LKFMB PO7)
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points
(HACCP)
• Cleaning Programme
• Training Programmes
• Regular Internal Quality Audits
• Product Identification & Traceability
Programmes
• Regular Physical and Chemical Testing
(Daily & Yearly)
• Regular Microbiological Testing (Yearly)
• Regulatory Compliance – LKFM stays up to
date with the following regulations and
certifications:
0 Recalls Issued
for health and safety reasons
0 Incidents
of non-compliance with
regulations or voluntary codes
Through the initiatives listed above, the Group hopes to provide the highest quality of food products
all the while, minimising risk for the safety and health of customers.
o ISO 22000:2018 Certification
(Food Safety Management)
o ISO 9001:2015 Certification
(Quality Management)
o Halal Cert – Starch & Wheat Flour
o SIRIM QAS Certification
o MeSTI Certification
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Our supply chain is an aspect of our sustainability efforts, where we place a focus on primarily
local suppliers. The Group hopes for continuous transparency, monitoring, and accountability
throughout the supply chain, from raw materials sourcing to final product delivery. Through
responsible supply chain management, we hope to drive positive change and create long-term
value for all stakeholders.
9
In 2022, the Group purchased all of its raw material, comprising of starch and wheat, from a
related company – ‘Lotus Essential’.
However, from 2023 onwards, the Group began sourcing more of our wheat from overseas
suppliers, with the main international sources being Canada and Australia. LKFM has continued
to purchase its starch from local supplier Lotus Essential.
In FYE 2024, LKFM saw a decrease in the production of wheat products which therefore saw less
wheat being purchased.
100%
2022
95.77%
4.23%
2023
Local International
99.09%
0.91%
2024
PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS
Figure 4: Lotus KFM Berhad Percentage Spent on Local Suppliers
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
27
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
ENVIRONMENT
10
As a company focused on flour milling and the trading of flour-related products, LKFM
understands the importance of minimising our environmental impact and promoting
sustainable practices. The Group recognises that responsible resource management not only
benefits the planet but enhances the resilience and efficiency of the business as well.
Key areas of our environmental focus include reducing energy and water consumption,
minimising waste, and ensuring sustainable sourcing practices. Through continuous
improvement and transparency in our practices, we hope to create long-term value for our
stakeholders while contributing to a healthier environment.
Waste Management
The Group manages our waste to
optimise production, lower
disposal costs, and minimise
environmental impact.
Material Matter Why It Matters
Water Management
The Group aims to work towards
minimising our environmental
impact by reducing water waste
and lowering costs through better
water usage in processing and
cleaning.
Energy Management
The Group monitors our energy
output and hopes to make steps
in our journey to reduce
operational costs, enhance
efficiency, and lower carbon
emissions.
Emissions Management
The Group aims to minimise our
carbon footprint, meet
environmental regulations, and
improve air quality as well as
reduce operational costs.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
28
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
WASTE MANAGEMENT
The Group minimises our waste generation and aims to optimise our waste disposal process
through the processes listed below. The Group details how they promote factory efficiency and
cleanliness in the Production Waste Management policy.
The waste generated by Lotus KFM flour production mainly falls into these 2 categories:
1. Excessive Product – This refers to excessive flour that remains inside machinery, declared
‘dirty flour’.
2. Impurities – This refers to the non-flour waste items that are segregated by machines during
the wheat cleaning process; items like stones, grains, or twigs.
Lotus KFM Berhad has put in place a waste disposal policy which aims to inform workers on safe
and efficient disposal practices. By implementing these practices, the Group aims to reduce its
environmental footprint, enhance resource efficiency, and contribute to a circular economy,
ensuring that our operations align with our commitment to sustainability.
11
TOTAL WASTE DIRECTED TO DISPOSAL
1. Collecting
2. Bagging
3. Weighing
Figure 5: Lotus KFM Berhad Waste Disposal Process
4. Disposal
1. Excessive product (dirty flour) is
collected from machine during
maintenance and internal cleaning.
Impurities are also collected from the
machines involved.
2. The separate waste categories are
then bagged and gathered for ease of
access.
3. The respective waste is then weighed
before they are sent for disposal.
4. Disposal takes place via a common
waste tank, which is then transferred
to an outside contractor.
For FYE 2024, a total of 1.28 metric tonnes (mt) of waste in total was generated, with all of it
going to disposals. This figure has seen a decrease from previous years of 5.22mt in FYE 2023,
and 6.10mt in FYE 2022, as there has been a reduction in production operations.
Lotus KFM has not recorded any waste away from disposal for this financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
29
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
Energy Usage
Best-Practices
Factory staff practise
switching off unused
machinery, lights, and
air-conditioning units.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
As the Group is in the manufacturing sector, our factory uses substantial amounts of power and
energy. The Group endeavours to optimise energy usage across our operations to reduce costs and
minimise our carbon footprint. Our approach includes continuous monitoring of energy
consumption, implementing energy-efficient technologies, and identifying opportunities for
renewable energy sources.
By analysing data and adjusting our practices, the Group ensures responsible energy usage while
enhancing operational efficiency. This commitment not only supports our sustainability goals but
also reinforces our responsibility to contribute positively to the environment and our communities.
12
Over the past three years, the Group has seen a decrease in electricity usage due to a reduction
in flour milling production. In 2023, energy consumption reduced by 44% from 2022, while 2024
saw a further 27% decrease from 2023 as well. LKFM’s operations have reduced in the past few
years due to lower sales. While this resulted in lower operations, the Group also implements
the best practices below to keep energy consumption levels as low as possible.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
2022
958.95
MW
2023
533.38
MW
2024
390.31
MW
Employee
Reminders
Employees are reminded
to switch machines off at
the end of working days.
Maintenance
Checks
Regular maintenance
checks are conducted to
ensure equipment
operates efficiently.
- 44% - 27%
Figure 6: Lotus KFM Energy Consumption
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
30
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
WATER MANAGEMENT
Managing water usage and wastage is a matter that LKFM takes seriously in our overall
operations. The Group aspires to make use of its water efficiently, minimising effluents and
preserving this resource as much as possible.
Our approach involves closely monitoring water consumption, providing training to employees,
and optimising our processes to reduce usage where applicable. Through these practices, we
hope to grow in our sustainability journey as a Group.
13
LKFM predominantly uses water in our flour production process and its administrative building. The
water usage rate has reduced following the decline in LKFM’s annual flour production. The SSC
continuously monitors water usage to identify trends or anomalies, making adjustments as needed.
Some of the initiatives include:
WATER CONSUMPTION
Employee
Training
Training is provided to employees on water conservation practices
and the importance of water efficiency. The intended outcome was
to encourage employees to identify and report water-saving
opportunities.
Plumbing
Inspections
Regular inspections take place for factory plumbing systems as well
as any relevant equipment. Any discovered leaks are promptly
repaired to prevent unnecessary water waste.
2022
2023
2024
11.44 M
L
9.26 M
L
8.51 M
L
19%
8%
Figure 7: Lotus KFM Berhad Water Consumption (ML)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
31
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT
One of the Group’s business outputs is in the production of flour-based products. This can be
energy demanding, and the more energy is used, the more emissions are produced as a result.
By continuously assessing and optimising our processes, LKFM aims to minimise emissions and
comply with environmental regulations. This proactive approach not only supports our
sustainability goals but also demonstrates our dedication to responsible business practices and
a healthier environment for our communities.
14
Scope 1 emissions refer to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated from company-
owned or company-controlled sources. This may include company vehicles and/or machinery.
Scope 1 has seen an overall decrease of 29% from 2022 to 2024. LKFM uses petrol and diesel
for company lorries, forklifts, grass-cutting machines and pest-control fogging machines. The
Group has seen a decrease in production for the past financial year, and as a result, the usage of
vehicles and machinery has seen a decrease as well.
SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS
68.53
84.34
48.47
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2022 2023 2024
Figure 8: Scope 1 Emissions for Lotus KFM Berhad FYE 2022 – FYE 2024 (tCO2e)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
32
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT
15
Scope 2 emissions refer to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions released as a result of
company-purchased electricity.
As for Scope 2 emissions, the Group saw a reduction of almost 70% from FYE 2022 to FYE 2024
overall. LKFM’s business operations are conducted at our factory in Kuantan, and the staff
administrative office located in Kuantan, while the main corporate office is in Putrajaya. As a
result of the decrease in production for FYE 2024, the usage of electricity has decreased as well.
The heavy contributors to this Scope would be processes like milling, flour cleaning,
conditioning, flour blending, and sieving.
SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS
566.16
371.99
172.46
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
2022 2023 2024
Figure 9: Scope 2 Emissions for Lotus KFM Berhad FYE 2022 – FYE 2024 (tCO2e)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
33
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
SOCIAL
16
This section outlines our policies and initiatives in relation to social aspects of sustainability,
highlighting our focus and impact on employees, communities, and stakeholders.
LKFM employees are the backbone of our operations, and the Group upholds values that
strive to cultivate a safe, inclusive, and respectful workplace. LKFM invests in employee
development, offering benefits, and ensuring compliance with labour regulations to support
our employees’ growth and well-being. Lotus KFM has also engaged with some local
communities in the past to provide relief for natural disasters.
Health & Safety
The Group strives to maintain a
safe working environment as
operations involve large
machinery and the handling of
raw materials.
Material Matter Why It Matters
Labour Practices &
Standards
The Group values fair and ethical
treatment of employees as well
as prioritising employee
satisfaction. The aim is to build a
positive workspace and
contributing to long-term success.
Diversity
The Group hopes to foster an
inclusive workspace, with a mix of
backgrounds and cultures
encouraging creativity and
innovation in problem-solving and
decision-making.
Community & Society
The Group values the areas it
operates in and hopes to cultivate
goodwill as well as strengthen
local connections. Additionally, it
can enrich the reputation and
public perception of the Group.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
34
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
HEALTH & SAFETY
Health & safety is a fundamental consideration in our sustainability journey. We prioritise
creating a safe and healthy workplace, recognising that the well-being of our employees is
critical to our success. Our comprehensive safety programmes include regular training sessions
on best practices, emergency preparedness, and equipment handling. We ensure that all staff
receive the necessary skills and knowledge to maintain a safe working environment.
Additionally, we implement strict safety policies, such as regular equipment inspections, hazard
assessments, and adherence to industry regulations. By fostering a culture of safety, we aim to
minimise risks, prevent accidents, and ensure the welfare of all individuals at our facilities,
supporting both our sustainability and operational goals.
17
Lotus KFM Berhad conducts internal inspections twice a year. The main objective of
these inspections is to ensure that working conditions are safe to maximise employee health
and safety. These inspections are conducted by the Occupational Safety and Health
Coordinator, who was appointed in 2020. The Occupational Safety and Health Committee was
also set up to enhance employee awareness of health and safety at the workplace.
Periodic inspections assess potential hazards to working conditions such as exposed wires,
slippery floors and unguarded machinery.
WORKPLACE SAFETY
0 Injuries
Across the group
0 Fatalities
Across the group
Further assessments conducted include:
1. Noise Risk Assessment (NRA) – A noise map is created from the results of
this assessment. Employees also undergo an audiometric test, while a
Hearing Conservation Program is put in place.
2. Chemical Hazard Risk Assessment (CHRA) -- Relevant employees receive
proper training on how to use the correct Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE) while handling chemicals.
3. Local Exhaust Ventilation (LEV) -- Local exhaust ventilation is an extract
ventilation system that removes airborne contaminants such as dusts, mists,
gases, vapour or fumes so that they can’t be inhaled.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
35
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
HEALTH & SAFETY
18
The Group values safety highly and has maintained compliance with applicable health and
safety regulations. The necessary tools and protective gear are always provided to employees, while
maintenance of equipment and machinery is conducted regularly to reduce the likeliness of
equipment malfunction or disrepair.
In 2024, all 11 LKFM employees and 22 non-employees were trained on health and safety
standards. The Group’s objective is to ensure that each employee receives 20 or more training
hours per year, with many training sessions falling under the health & safety umbrella.
Lotus KFM Berhad provides a variety of training programmes to our employees and non-employees
on a yearly basis, with both internal and external programmes being offered. The total list of
training programmes provided to employees in FYE 2024 is listed below:
SAFETY TRAINING
1. Cara-Cara Selenggaraan Unit Penapis Tepung
2. Kebersihan Diri dan Cara Kerja Selamat
3. Cara Selenggaraan Bahagian Premix
4. Cara Kerja Selamat Bahagian Selenggaraan
5. Konsep Pemanduan Berhemah
6. Morning Briefing -No Smoking Outside
Designated Area
7. Cara Kerja Selamat Sewaktu Kerja
Pembungkusan 25kg
Internal Training External Training
1. Hearing Conservation Programme
>Medicare OSH Sdn Bhd
2. First Aid, Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
& Automated External Defibrillator (AED)
>De Marque Strategic Consultancy Sdn Bhd
3. Seminar Pelaksanaan Perakuan Bomba OKK
2024
>Jabatan Bomba dan Penyelamat Pahang
4. Respiratory Fit Test Training
>3M Malaysia Sdn Bhd
5. NTW-Certified Professional in Quality
Management Tool -7QC Basic Tools
>Duke Training & Consultancy
6. Know Your Chemicals Training
>Ergochem Training and Consultancy Services
The Group is constantly promoting the awareness of health and safety precautions in the
workplace, while continuously reviewing and updating the occupational health and safety
practices. LKFM holds its employees to the highest standards of compliance and accountability
in their respective areas of responsibility to create a safe environment free of negligence or
injury.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
36
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
77.78%
22.22%
Male
Female
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIVERSITY
Lotus KFM Berhad is working towards a diverse and inclusive workforce as we recognise that it
drives innovation in the Group. From senior management to non-executive roles, we try to
foster a balanced representation that reflects our values. Moving forward, we aim to push for
diversity at all levels to create an inclusive environment that respects different perspectives and
cultures.
19
88.89%
11.11%
Above 50
Between
30-50
The Group employs a sizeable workforce including temporary / contractors. This is
addressed further in the following page. The figure below shows a breakdown of the Group’s
full-time employees in the categories of ages and genders. As shown below, the Group
maintains a healthy mix of ages and genders.
LOTUS KFM’S WORKFORCE
100%
0%
71%
67%
0%
100%
29%
33%
Male Female
100%
0%
0%
0%
0%
100%
71%
100%
0%
0%
29%
0%
Under 30 Between 31-50 Above 50
Figure 11: Employees by Gender Figure 12: Employees by Age
Figure 14: Directors by Age
Figure 13: Directors by Gender
As seen in the figure above, Lotus KFM represents both genders in our Board of Directors. The
Board consists of both female and male members, and has representation from different age
groups. LKFM’s Gender Diversity Policy provides a roadmap for the Company to continuously
improve its gender diversity at Board and senior management level.
Non-Executive
Executive
Managerial
Senior Management
Non-Executive
Executive
Managerial
Senior Management
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
37
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
LABOUR PRACTICES & STANDARDS
Lotus KFM Berhad maintains comprehensive labour practices and standards for our employees.
These include employee training programmes to enhance skills and ensure a safe working
environment, balance of full time and temporary employees as needed, maintaining a low
employee turnover rate, as well as offering various employee support programmes.
20
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
The training of Lotus KFM Berhad personnel is necessary, as our operations involve the
operation of machinery while dealing with food products. In 2024, the Group sent our
employees for 13 training sessions, with these sessions focusing on up-to-date industry
practices, safety protocols, and operational procedures. By upskilling our workforce, we aim to
enhance skills, improve productivity, and maintain a safe working environment.
Investing in our employees' growth ensures the quality of our products while supporting career
progression, helping to retain talent and strengthening our overall capabilities.
217 TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING IN 2024
7 Hours
of Managerial
Training
121 Hours
of Executive
Training
89 Hours
of Non-Executive
Training
0
0.5
1
1.5
2022 2023 2024
Executive Non-Executive
Figure 15: Employee Turnover by Employee Category 69% of Staff
were contract workers or
temporary staff in 2024
Due to the nature of LFKM’s operations,
contract workers are employed as necessary
with the support of more than ¼ of
employees that are permanent.
LKFM has seen a reduction on turnover rate
since FYE 2022. For FYE 2024, there was no
employee turnover for all categories of
employees. The figure above shows the
employee turnover ever year according to
category – Senior Management and
Management had no turnover for the past
three years.
0 Complaints
concerning human rights
violations in 2024
LKFM received no complaints concerning
human rights violations. The Group
prioritises transparency through the
implementation of its Whistleblowing policy
which is addressed later in this Sustainability
Statement.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
38
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
LABOUR PRACTICES & STANDARDS
21
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMMES
Over the past three years, LKFM aimed to foster a positive and engaging workplace
culture through various employee engagement programmes. Initiatives such as the Raya Goodie
Bags (2022), Bowling Tournament (2023), Raya Cookies Giveaway, and Sports Day provide
opportunities for celebration, camaraderie, and team-building.
Lotus KFM’s employee engagement programmes help to strengthen employee loyalty, enhance
team spirit, and create a sense of appreciation and togetherness, ensuring a supportive and
motivated work environment for all our employees.
Listed below are the employee engagement programmes for FYE 2024:
Raya Cookies Giveaway 2024 Sports Day 2024
38 employees were involved in this
programme received a giveaway of Raya
Cookies. This programme aimed to
strengthen employees' sense of loyalty and
commitment to the company and make
them feel valued and appreciated.
20 employees were involved in this
programme which encouraged teamwork,
and helped employees learn to work
together outside of their usual roles by
participating in fun and competitive
activities.
We hope to make a positive impact through meaningful engagement and local
partnerships. Our efforts reflect our dedication to being a responsible corporate citizen and
making a positive difference in society.
Malaysia was hit with heavy downpours in 2022 which resulted in devastating floods across
various parts of Malaysia. LKFM contributed MYR 2,000 in FYE 2023 to "Tabung Rayuan Bantuan
Awal Banjir peringkat Negeri Pahang" for victims of the 2022 floods.
In FYE 2024, the Group did not contribute financially to any CSR programmes but we hope to
explore initiatives that align with the needs of our community in the future.
AMOUNT INVESTED IN THE COMMUNITY
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
39
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
GOVERNANCE
22
The Governance section of this Sustainability Statement outlines Lotus KFM’s commitment
to ethical leadership, transparency, and accountability practices. The Group is committed to
ensuring its operations and businesses are conducted ethically, honestly, and with integrity.
Lotus KFM has various policies in place that ensure the principles of the Group are a constant
focus. The material matters listed below highlight our commitments to excellence in
Governance and the internal management of the business.
Data Privacy & Security
The Group protects its
stakeholders’ digital information
and security in an ever-changing
digital landscape.
Material Matter Why It Matters
Anti-Corruption
The Group prioritises anti-
corruption in a bid to maintain
the highest levels of integrity and
professionalism.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
40
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
Data privacy and security refers to the protection of personal and sensitive information from
unauthorised access, misuse, and data breaches. Data has become increasingly integral to Lotus
KFM’s business and safeguarding it is important to maintain trust with stakeholders, while
complying with regulations and regulatory boards.
Effective data security involves the implementation of technical measures, such as encryption
and access methods. Data privacy discusses the policies that manage the collection, storage,
and sharing of information to ensure they align with legal standards and ethical practices.
Together, both play a key role in mitigating risks in an increasingly digitally reliant world.
DATA PRIVACY & SECURITY
23
In 2022, 2023, and 2024, Lotus KFM reported no breaches of customer privacy and loss
of customer data. Lotus KFM currently does not have any policies regarding Data Privacy and
Security, but the Group does have best practices when it comes to digital security. The Group
currently maintains basic digital protection and safeguards as shown below:
CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA
Firewall Protection
LKFM utilises firewall protection to monitor and control incoming
and outgoing network traffic. Any unauthorised access is blocked,
safeguarding sensitive information from external threats.
Secure Data Storage with Cloud Encryption
The company’s data is stored on secure encrypted cloud servers.
Access to information is controlled through role-based permissions.
Unique Password Protection
The Group requires its employees to create unique passwords when
accessing its internal servers. This is for an added layer of digital
protection.
VPN Access
LKFM uses a VPN system to ensure its servers are always secure
remote access for connections while dealing with confidential data.
ZERO Breaches
of customer privacy in FYE 2024 which
could result in loss of customer data
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
41
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024
• Implementation of the organisation’s anti-
corruption policies and procedures
• Whistleblowing Policy
• Implementation of Human Resources Policies
and Procedures in managing corruption
• Reporting and Monitoring Process of the Anti-
Corruption Compliance Programme
• Corruption Risk-Assessment
• Training and Communication of Policies and
Procedures
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Anti-corruption refers to efforts and measures taken to prevent, detect, and combat corruption
within the Group. Corruption, which includes bribery, fraud, and embezzlement, undermines
trust, distorts markets, and weakens governance.
Our anti-corruption initiatives aim to promote transparency, accountability, and ethical
behaviour. The Group has in place multiple strategies and policies that shape environments
where corruption is less likely to thrive, supporting long-term stability and equitable growth.
24
The Group has not yet carried out corruption-related risk assessments for its operations.
However, on May 2024, LKFM conducted internal assessments on the areas listed below. Internal
assessments are important to the Group as integrity is something that is highly valued in the
company.
OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR CORRUPTION-RELATED RISKS
• Facilitation Payment
• Charitable / Political Contribution /
Sponsorship
• Employee Responsibilities
• Gifts
• Hospitality
• Record Keeping
• Training and Communication
• Reporting of Policy Violations
• Whistleblowing
The Group adopts a Zero-Tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and
corrupt gratification, as well as any associated activities.
The Group has several policies in place to prevent corruption and bribery. LKFM has in place an
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy which details procedures and best practices for corruption
scenarios. The policy elaborates on the following processes in detail:
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
42
Lotus KFM Berhad | Sustainability Statement 2024 25
WHISTLEBLOWING
ANTI-CORRUPTION
The Group provides avenues for employees and other stakeholders to report genuine
concerns in relation to breaches of legal obligations, miscarriage of justice, dangers to health and
safety, dangers to the environment, or the cover-up of any of these in the workplace.
This is detailed in LKFM’s Whistleblowing Policy which states that employees are able to do so
without risk of reprisal, separation, demotion, suspension or loss of benefits because of the report.
Misconduct in the workplace includes (but is not limited to):
• Accounting or audit irregularities, fraud
• Bribery, Corruption
• Conflicts of interest
• Falsification of company records
• Abuse of power
• Sexual harassment or discrimination
• Theft of cash, goods, services or time
• Non-compliance with procedure
ZERO Confirmed
Incidents of Corruption
for the past three
financial years (2022, 2023, 2024)
There are currently no employees who have received training on anti-corruption.
However, a training session is being planned, but due to trainer complications and uncertainty, the
training has been postponed until further notice – the earliest to be in FYE 2025.
ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
43
Sustainability
Performance Report
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of
employees who have
received training on anti-
corruption by employee
category
Senior Management Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Managerial Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Non-Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed
incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount
invested in the community
where the target
beneficiaries are external to
the listed issuer
MYR 0.00 2,000.00 0.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the
investment in communities
Number 0 1 0
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and
age group, for each
employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Senior Management
Under 30
Percentage 100.00 100.00 100.00
Senior Management
Between 30-50
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Senior Management
Above 50
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Managerial Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Managerial Between 30-
50
Percentage 100.00 100.00 100.00
Managerial Above 50 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Executive Under 30 Percentage 12.50 14.29 0.00
Executive Between 30-
50
Percentage 75.00 57.14 71.43
Executive Above 50 Percentage 12.50 28.57 28.57
Non-Executive Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Non-Executive Between
30-50
Percentage 100.00 100.00 100.00
Non-Executive Above
50
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Gender Group by
Employee Category
Senior Management
Male
Percentage 100.00 100.00 100.00
Senior Management
Female
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Managerial Male Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Managerial Female Percentage 100.00 100.00 100.00
Executive Male Percentage 75.00 71.43 71.43
Executive Female Percentage 25.00 28.57 28.57
Non-Executive Male Percentage 66.67 66.67 66.67
Non-Executive Female Percentage 33.33 33.33 33.33
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age
group
Male Percentage 77.78 77.78 77.78
Female Percentage 22.22 22.22 22.22
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Between 30-50 Percentage 11.11 11.11 11.11
Above 50 Percentage 88.89 88.89 88.89
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 958.95 533.38 390.31
Bursa (Health and safety)
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
44
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa C5(a) Number of
work-related fatalities
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time
incident rate ("LTIR")
Rate 8.51 0.00 0.00
Bursa C5(c) Number of
employees trained on health
and safety standards
Number 11 9 12
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category
Senior Management Hours 3 0 0
Managerial Hours 45 22 7
Executive Hours 278 233 121
Non-Executive Hours 104 105 89
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of
employees that are
contractors or temporary
staff
Percentage 72.30 72.70 69.20
Bursa C6(c) Total number of
employee turnover by
employee category
Senior Management Number 0 0 0
Managerial Number 0 0 0
Executive Number 0 1 0
Non-Executive Number 0 0 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 100.00 95.77 99.09
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses
of customer data
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of
water used
Megalitres 11.440000 9.260000 8.510000
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
Sustainability Performance Report
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement is augmented with Corporate Governance Report, based on a
prescribed format as enumerated in Paragraph 15.25(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) so as to provide a detailed articulation on the application of
Lotus KFM Berhad (“LKFM” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) corporate practices as set out
in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”).
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of LKFM fully supports the recommendations of the Code in maintaining
a high standard of corporate governance and ensuring that the principles and best practices of corporate
governance are observed and adopted as a fundamental part of discharging its responsibilities to protect and
enhance stakeholders’ value.
This Corporate Governance Statement (“Statement”) should also be read together with the Company’s Corporate
Governance Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024 (“FYE 2024”) which is available on the
Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my as well as via an announcement on the website of Bursa Securities.
This Statement gives the shareholders an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company for the
FYE 2024.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement makes reference to the following three (3) keys principles of the
Code:-
(a) Principle A - Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
(b) Principle B - Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
(c) Principle C - Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1 Board Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the overall performance and business affairs of the Group. The Board provides
necessary leadership, which includes practicing a high level of good governance to ensure the long-term
success of the Group and the delivery of sustainable value to its stakeholders.
The Company is led by an experienced and dynamic Board. It has a balanced Board composition with effective
Independent Directors. The Board provides stewardship to the Group’s strategic direction and operations and
ultimately enhances shareholders’ value. To fulfill this role, the Board is responsible for the following:-
- To review and adopt the overall strategic direction, business plans, and annual budgets of the Group,
including major capital commitments on a quarterly basis;
- To oversee and evaluate the conduct, governance and sustainability of the businesses of the Group;
- To deliberate on proposals presented and recommended by the Management;
- To review and approve the annual and quarterly results, new ventures, major acquisitions and disposal
of undertakings and properties;
- To establish key performance indicators and ensure that there are plans in place for the orderly
succession of the board and senior management;
- To oversee the development and implementation of a shareholder communication policy for the Group;
- To identify principal risks and ensure the implementation of appropriate systems to manage and monitor
significant financial and non-financial risks;
- Responsible for material matters of the Group and reserved for the Board’s decisions; and
- To review the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control systems, risk management and
management information systems, including systems for compliance with applicable laws, regulations,
rules, directives and guidelines.
In order to assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has established Board Committees, namely the
Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”) to examine specific
issues within their respective Terms of Reference (“TOR”) as approved by the Board and report to the Board with
their recommendations. The ultimate responsibility for decision making, however, lies with the Board.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
46
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.2 The Chairman
The Chairman of the Board, Tuan Mohd Rasli bin Muda, holds an Independent Non-Executive position and
is responsible for leading the Board to ensure its effectiveness and integrity and the entrenchment of good
corporate governance practices within the Group.
1.3 The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
The positions of the Chairman and CEO are held by two different individuals, and each has a clear accepted
division of responsibilities to ensure there is a balance of power and authority to promote accountability.
The Chairman is responsible for instilling good corporate governance practices and leadership, and for
ensuring Board effectiveness, while the CEO has overall responsibilities over the day-to-day management
of the Group’s business and implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions. The Executive Director is
also accountable to the Board for the overall organisation, management and staffing of the Company and/or
the Group as well as the procedures in financial and other matters, including conduct and discipline.
1.4 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Board is supported by two (2) Company Secretaries who are experienced and qualified to act as
Companies Secretaries under the Section 235(2) of the Companies Act 2016 and are registered holders of
the Practicing Certificate issued by the Companies Commission of Malaysia. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretaries.
The Company Secretaries consistently participate in relevant training programs, conferences, or seminars
organised by authorities and professional bodies. This ensures they stay updated on corporate governance
developments and regulatory changes pertinent to their role, enabling them to provide valuable advisory
services to the Board.
The Board acknowledges that the Company Secretaries play an important role and will ensure that the
Company Secretaries fulfils the functions for which they have been appointed.
During the FYE 2024, all Board and Board Committees meetings were properly convened, accurate and
proper records of the proceedings and resolutions passed were taken and maintained in the statutory records
of the Company.
Overall, the Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries and
their team to the Board in the discharge of her duties and functions.
1.5 Meeting of Board and Board Committees
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, an annual meetings calendar is prepared in advance of each new
year by the Company Secretaries. The meetings calendar provides the Directors with scheduled dates for
meetings of the Board and Board Committees as well as the annual general meeting (“AGM”). The closed
periods for dealings in securities by Directors and principal officers based on the scheduled dates of meetings
for making announcements of the Company’s quarterly results were also provided therein.
The notices of Board and Board Committees meetings together with the meeting papers are generally
furnished to the Directors via email at least five (5) business days prior to the dates of meetings. This is to
ensure that the Directors have sufficient preparation time and information to make informed the decision at
each meeting. Management and other advisers are invited to attend the meetings to report and brief on their
respective areas of responsibility, if required.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
47
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.5 Meeting of Board and Board Committees (cont’d)
The deliberations and decisions of matters discussed in the Board and Board Committees meetings are duly
recorded in the minutes of meetings, including whether any Director abstains from voting or deliberating on a
particular matter. The minutes of meetings are circulated to the respective Chairman of the Board and Board
Committees in a timely manner for review before they are confirmed and adopted by members of the Board
and Board Committee at their respective meetings. The Company Secretaries also ensure that deliberations
at Board and Board Committee meetings are well documented.
All the records of proceedings and resolutions passed are kept at the registered office of the Company.
Apart from having full and unrestricted access to all information of the Group in a timely and accurate
manner, the Board is encouraged to seek independent professional advice, where necessary, at the Group’s
expense from time to time. This is to enable the Board to discharge its duties in relation to the matters being
deliberated.
1.6 Board Charter
The Board recognises and observes the role, composition and responsibilities of the Board embodying
in the principles of the Code and observes as a source of reference for new Board members. The Board
Charter sets out guidance and principles of good corporate governance to ensure fairness, transparency,
accountability and responsibility. It provides guidance for Directors and Management regarding their roles in
discharging their duties towards the Company as well as boardroom activities.
The Board Charter will be reviewed as and when necessary to ensure it remains consistent with the Board’s
objectives and responsibilities as well as the latest regulations and legislations. The Board Charter is
published on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
1.7 Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board has in place clear guidelines on business conduct and ethical behaviour for the Directors and
employees in carrying out their duties. The Code of Conduct is published on the Company’s website at
www.kfmb.com.my and has clearly stated the values and inspiring principles behind the achievement of its
business objectives are of fundamental importance for the correct operation of its businesses.
1.8 Whistleblowing Policy
The Group is committed to the highest standard of integrity, openness and accountability in the conduct
of its business and operations. The Group has established the whistleblowing policy setting out the
appropriate communication and feedback channels to facilitate whistleblowing. The implementation of the
whistleblowing policy is in line with the Companies Act 2016 and Section 17A of the MACC Act (“the Acts”),
where provisions have been made to protect the officers who make disclosures on breach or non-observance
of any requirement or provision of the Acts or on any serious offence involving fraud and dishonesty.
The Board will review and update the whistleblowing policy as and when necessary to ensure that they
continue to remain relevant and appropriate.
The Whistle Blowing Policy is published on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
48
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART I – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.9 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
In line with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018 (“MACC Act 2018”), the
Company has put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to encourage a culture of
integrity and transparency in all of the Group’s activities. This policy which adheres to the MMLR of Bursa
Securities and the Guidelines on Adequate Procedures issued pursuant to Section 17A(5) of the MACC
Act 2018, generally set out the responsibilities of the Company, and all individuals who work for the Group,
in observing and upholding the Group’s position on bribery and corruption and provides key anti-bribery
and corruption principles that apply to all interactions with the Group’s customers, business partners, and
other third parties, as well as guidelines for the prevention, management, and remediation of bribery and
corruption related risks.
The ABC Policy will be reviewed at least once in every three (3) years to ensure that they continue to
remain relevant and appropriate. The ABC Policy is available for viewing on the Company’s website at
www.kfmb.com.my.
1.10 Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
In line with Paragraph 15.01A of the MMLR, the Board has adopted the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy which
serves as a guide to the NC, RC and the Board in their review and assessment of the potential candidates
for appointment to the Board of the Group, as well as the retiring Directors who are seeking re-election at the
annual general meeting.
The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy shall be reviewed periodically by the Board and be revised at any time
as it may deem necessary to ensure that they remain consistent with the Board’s objectives, current law and
practices. The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy is published on the Company’s website at www.kfmb.com.my.
The Board has also adopted the Nomination and Appointment of New Directors Process and Procedures to
formalise the process for the nomination and appointment of a new Director to be undertaken by the NC and
the Board in discharging their responsibilities in terms of the nomination and appointment of new Directors
of the Group.
1.11 Sustainability Governance
The Board believes that sustainable business practices are essential to the creation of long-term value and
that running the business in a responsible manner is intrinsically tied to achieving operational excellence.
In terms of structural oversight over sustainability including strategies, priorities and targets, it is reposed
at the Board level with the Management being responsible for operational execution with respect to
Environmental, Social and Governance factors as part of the Group’s corporate strategy.
As fiduciary to the Company’s shareholders, the Board is focused on maintaining exemplary corporate
governance practices, which include a commitment to ethics, integrity and corporate responsibility. The
Board also ensures the Company’s internal and external stakeholders are well informed on the sustainability
strategies, priorities, targets as well as overall performance which the Sustainability Statement has provided
a detailed articulation in this Annual Report.
The Board reviewed, revised, and approved the relevant amendments by incorporating the assessment of
the Board’s understanding of sustainability issues in the annual performance evaluation that are critical to the
Company’s performance.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
49
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
2.1 Board Composition and balance
The Board currently comprises nine (9) members and the composition of the current Board is set out in the
table below:-
Names Designation
1. Mohd Rasli bin Muda Independent Non-Executive Chairman
2. Datuk Wong Sak Kuan Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman
3. Lee Wai Fun Executive Director cum Chief Executive Officer
4. Lim Lian Chee Executive Director
5. Low Koon Min Independent Non-Executive Director
6. Yap Ee Seong Independent Non-Executive Director
7. Yau Ming Teck Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
8. Chia Weng Lock Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
9. Wong Yau Min Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
This current Board composition is in compliance with Paragraph 15.02 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities,
which requires that at least two (2) Directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the higher, are
Independent Directors, and that there is at least one woman Director.
The Independent Directors, who are professionals of credibility and repute, demonstrate independent judgement
and objectivity in the Board’s deliberations. The diverse professional backgrounds of the Directors provide the
Board with an effective mix of members with industry-specific knowledge and broad business experience.
A brief profile of the Directors is presented in the Board of Directors Profile of this Annual Report.
The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board, and understands that increasing
diversity at the Board level is an essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage. A truly diverse
Board will include and make good use of differences in skill, regional and industry experience, background,
race, gender and other distinction between Directors. These differences will be considered in determining
the optimum composition of the Board and when possible, should be balanced appropriately. All Board
appointments are made on merit, taking into account the skills, experience, independence and knowledge
which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
The Board had also implemented a process for annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Board as a
whole, the Board Committees, and for assessing the contribution of each individual Director. This process
shall be carried out by the Nomination Committee.
The Board continually assesses the composition and the tenure of its Independent Directors to ensure
they have the appropriate balance of skills, expertise and experience to bring an independent view in the
consideration of Board issues and provide the appropriate advice to maintain the highest level of corporate
ethics. LKFM measures the independence of its Directors based on the criteria prescribed under MMLR in
which a Director should be independent and free from any business or other relationship that could interfere
with the exercise of independent judgement or the ability to act in the best interest of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors contribute significantly in areas such as policy and strategy, performance
monitoring, allocation of resources as well as improving governance and controls. They also ensure that the
strategies proposed by the management are fully discussed and examined, and take into account the long-
term interest not only of the shareholders but also of employees, customers and suppliers. Together with the
Executive Directors who have an in-depth knowledge of the business, the Board constitutes individuals who
are committed to business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
50
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.1 Board Composition and balance (cont’d)
Each Board member is expected to commit sufficient time to carry out his/her role as Director and/or member
of the Board Committees in which he/she is a member. In accordance with the requirements of MMLR, none
of the Directors of the Company can hold more than five (5) directorships in public companies. This ensures
the Independent Directors’ commitment, resources and time are focused for an effective input to the Board.
2.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
The Board is fully aware that the tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of
nine (9) years as recommended by the Code. However, if the Board intends to retain a Director who has
served as an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, the
Board must justify its decision and seek the shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process at a
general meeting. The Board also aware of the amendments to the MMLR on the tenure of an Independent
Non-Executive Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of twelve (12) years pursuant to the MMLR.
The Board has not adopted a policy that limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
a step-up practice. Notwithstanding that, the assessment of the independence of Independent Directors
will be conducted annually via the Annual Evaluation of Independence of Directors to ensure that they are
independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere
with the exercise of their independent judgement or the ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
During the FYE 2024, none of the Directors has served the Board as an Independent Director of the Company
for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years. Further, based on the independence assessment carried
out during the financial year under review, the Board is satisfied with the level of independence demonstrated
by all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and their abilities to act in the best interest of the Company.
2.3 Board Diversity and Senior Management Team
The Board acknowledges the importance of Board and Senior Management Team composition diversity as
recommended by the Code. In pursuing diversity agenda, the Directors and Senior Management are sourced
from a diverse pool and recruited based on objective criteria, merit and with due regard for diversity in skills,
knowledge, experience, age, cultural background, gender and contribution.
In line with the recommendation under the Code for gender diversity, the Board has established and adopted
a Gender Diversity Policy, which provides a framework for the Company to improve its gender diversity at
the Board and senior management levels. The policy emphasises the importance of diversity among Board
members, including race, ethnicity, age, gender, skills, competencies, experiences and expertise. The Gender
Diversity Policy aims to enhance diversity not only at the Board level but also within the senior management.
Currently, there are two (2) female Directors on the Board, namely, Ms. Lee Wai Fun and Ms. Low Koon Min.
2.4 Board Committees
The Board Committees are set up to manage specific tasks for which the Board is responsible within a clearly
defined TOR. This ensures that the Board members can spend their time more efficiently while the Board
Committees are entrusted with the authority to examine particular issues.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
51
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.4 Board Committees (cont’d)
The Board has established three (3) Board Committees and the membership of each committee is set out in
the table below:-
Composition AC NC RC
Mohd Rasli bin Muda
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
Member Member Chairman
Low Koon Min
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Chairperson Chairperson Member
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice Chairman)
Member - Member
Yau Ming Teck
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
- Member -
2.5 NC & RC
Currently, the composition of the NC & RC complies with the MMLR and comprise with a majority of
Independent Directors.
The NC & RC will scrutinise the candidates and recommend the same for the Board’s approval. In discharging
this duty, the Committees will undertake a thorough review of the candidate’s criteria, amongst others,
qualifications, skills, knowledge, expertise, experience, personal attributes and the capability to devote the
necessary time and commitment to the role.
The Board believes that individuals with diverse backgrounds, independence, competencies and diversity
represented on the Board could improve its effectiveness and bring different perspectives to its deliberations
and decision-making processes.
The above composition ensures that any decisions made are impartial and in the best interest of the Company
without any element of fear or favor.
In furtherance to that, the NC & RC will also recommend to the Board the framework of the remuneration
package for Executive Directors based on their duties and responsibilities. It is nevertheless the ultimate
decision of the entire Board to approve the appointment and remuneration of new directors and the directors
do not participate in a decision on their own remuneration package. The Directors’ fees are approved at the
AGM annually by the shareholders, based on the recommendation from the Board.
The NC & RC meet as and when required at least once every financial year.
The activities undertaken by the NC for the FYE 2024 are as follows:-
i) Evaluated the performance of each Non-Executive Director against the criteria as set out in the annual
assessment form, amongst others, attendance at Board or Committee meetings, key responsibilities
of the Chairman, adequate preparation for Board and/or Committee meetings, regular contribution
to Board or Committee meetings, personal input to the role and other contributions to the Board or
Committees as a whole.
ii) Evaluated the performance of the Executive Directors against diverse key performance indicators,
amongst others, financial, strategic and sustainability, conformance and compliance, business acumen/
increasing shareholders wealth, succession planning and personal input to the role.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
52
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.5 NC & RC (cont’d)
The activities undertaken by the NC for the FYE 2024 are as follows:- (cont’d)
iii) Assessed and evaluated the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
iv) Assessed and evaluated the effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees as a whole for
assessing the contribution to the effectiveness of the decision-making process of the Board.
v) Assessed and evaluated the performance of the AC.
vi) Reviewed, considered and recommended to the Board for consideration, the re-election of Directors
who were due for retirement at the AGM.
In addition, the RC and Board also reviewed the remuneration packages (including fees and benefits) of the
Directors for the FYE 2024 before recommending the same to the shareholders for approval at the AGM of
the Company.
2.6 Appointment to the Board
The proposed appointment of new Board members is reviewed and assessed by the NC. Thereafter the
NC submits its recommendation on the proposed appointment to the Board for approval. The NC’s primary
role is to review the required mix of skills and experiences of the Directors on the Board and determine the
appropriate Board balance and size of non-executive directors. It will establish procedures and processes
towards an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and the committees of the
Board and for assessing the contribution of each individual Director including time commitment. The Board is
satisfied that the current composition of the Board brings the required mix of skills and experiences required
for the Board to function effectively.
The NC is responsible to assess, evaluate and recommend a new Board member to the Board after taking into
consideration the relevant criteria such as age, gender, ethnicity, skill and experience, industry knowledge,
personal qualities and characteristic which include integrity, willingness and ability to discharge duty as
Director.
2.7 Re-election and Re-appointment of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, one-third (1/3) of the Directors are subject to retirement by
rotation at every AGM and provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every
three years but shall be eligible for re-election. Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to re-
election by the shareholders at the next AGM held following their appointments.
The Board makes recommendations concerning the re-election, reappointment and continuation in office of
any Director for shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
The NC has considered the assessment of Mr. Yau Ming Teck, Ms. Lee Wai Fun and Mr. Wong Yau Min, the
Directors standing for re-election and collectively agreed that they meet the criteria of character, experience,
integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
53
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.8 Overall Effectiveness of the Board and Board Committee as a whole
The Board has, through the NC, conducted an annual evaluation to determine the effectiveness of the
Board, its Board Committees and each individual Director for the FYE 2024 based on the agreed evaluation
process, criteria to be used and the evaluation method. The process was carried out by sending the following
customised assessment forms to Directors:-
i) Performance of Executive Directors;
ii) Performance of the Non-Executive Chairman;
iii) Performance of the Non-Executive Directors;
iv) Independence of the Independent Directors;
v) Performance of the AC; and
vi) Effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees as a whole.
The assessment criteria, amongst others, based on the Key Performance Indicators cover the financial
performance and business operations, strategic and sustainability, operations management and business
plans, product development, conformance and compliance, stakeholders’ relation, succession planning,
attendance, preparation and contribution to the committee meetings.
Based on the evaluations conducted for the FYE 2024, the NC and the Board were satisfied with the
performance of the individual Directors, the Board as a whole, Board Committees as well as the independence
and objective judgements that the Independent Directors have brought to the Board.
2.9 Attendance of Board and Board Committees’ Meetings
The Board shall meet at least four (4) times annually, or more frequently as circumstances dictate. As part
of the duty to foster open communication, the auditors and a representative(s) of the external auditors
(if required) will be invited to attend the meetings. The Senior Management personnel also attended the
meeting upon invitation by the Committee to provide their professional views, advice and explanation on
specific items. The Company Secretaries or any other person appointed by the Board or Board Committees
for this purpose shall act as Secretary for the Committee and as a reporting procedure, the minutes shall be
circulated to all members of the committee.
The number of meetings held and attended by each member of the Board and Board Committees during the
FYE 2024 are as follows:-
Type of Meetings
Name of Directors
Board of
Directors
AC NC RC
No. of Meetings Attended
Mohd Rasli bin Muda 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 4/4 4/4 - 1/1
Lee Wai Fun 4/4 - - -
Lim Lian Chee 4/4 - - -
Yau Ming Teck 4/4 - 1/1 -
Low Koon Min 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1
Chia Weng Lock 4/4 - - -
Yap Ee Seong 4/4 - - -
Wong Yau Min 4/4 - - -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
54
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.9 Attendance of Board and Board Committees’ Meetings (cont’d)
To facilitate an effective way to discharge the responsibilities, the Board Committees have been established
and guided by the respective terms of reference. The Board Committees are chaired by Independent Non-
Executive Directors who exercise skillful leadership with in-depth knowledge of the industry.
2.10 Board Training
The Board acknowledges that its Directors must keep abreast of developments in the Group’s operating
environment and business and will need to enhance their knowledge and business acumen to meet
challenging commercial risks.
During the FYE 2024, the Directors have attended the following training programmes in compliance with
Paragraph 15.08 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities:-
Name of Directors Title of Training/Seminars attended
Mohd Rasli bin Muda • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
• Bursa Academy: Conflict of Interest (“COI”) and Governance
of COI
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Lee Wai Fun • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Lim Lian Chee • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Chia Weng Lock • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Low Koon Min • ESG Requirement for PLC Companies by Bursa
• Latest Section 17a of the MACC Act 2009 and adequate
Procedures
• The ways of cybersecurity considerations amid a global
pandemic
• Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Yau Ming Teck • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Yap Ee Seong • Tech Legal Update: Malaysia’s Cybersecurity Bill
• Unlocking Shareholders’ & Corporate Dispute
• Arbitration in Times of Uncertainty
• Practicalities of Corporate Rescue Mechanism and Recent
Development
• Court Determination and Interpretation on Contractual
Clauses impacting Commercial Contracts
• Deep Dive into Transfer Pricing Audit
• Beneficial Ownership Reporting
• Global Minimum Tax in Southeast Asia -A Reality Check
• Building Sustainable Credibility: Assurance, Greenwashing
And The Rise Of Green-Hushing
• The Way Forward with Global Minimum Tax- Briefing for
MNE in Malaysia
Wong Yau Min • Beneficial Ownership Reporting
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
55
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.10 Board Training (Cont’d)
In addition, the Directors were briefed and updated at the quarterly meetings by the External Auditors, Internal
Auditors and/or the Company Secretaries on relevant amendments to the MMLR, corporate governance
practices and principles, risk management and internal control approaches, Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards as well as auditing requirements. The Directors also gained insights to the market development
through constructive and active deliberations at the Board meetings.
Relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements were circulated to the Board from time to time
for the Board's reference.
The Board will continue to identify and attend appropriate briefings, seminars, conferences and courses to
keep abreast of relevant changes in legislation and regulations, and development in the industry in order to
further enhance their skills and knowledge.
Directors are mindful that they shall consistently enhancing their skills and knowledge in order to maximise
their effectiveness during their tenure. Throughout their years in office, the Directors are continually updated
on the Group’s business and the regulatory requirements by the Management and the Company Secretaries.
PART III - REMUNERATION
3.1 Remuneration Policy
The Board had through the RC, established a formal and transparent Remuneration Policy as a guide for
the Board and the RC to determine the remuneration of Directors and/or the Senior Management of the
Company which takes into account the demands, complexities and performance of the Company as well
as skills and experiences required. The Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s website at
www.kfmb.com.my.
The Board, assisted by the RC, implements the policy and procedures on remuneration, which includes
reviewing and recommending the proposed remuneration packages of the Directors of the Company. The RC
is responsible to ensure that the remuneration packages are benchmarked with industry standards in light
of the Group’s performance in the industry as well as commensurate with the expected responsibility and
contribution by the Directors and link to the strategic objectives of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors of LKFM will be paid a basic fee as ordinary remuneration and will be paid a sum
based on their responsibilities in committees and the Board, their attendance and/or special skills and
expertise they bring to the Board. The fee shall be fixed in sum and not by a commission on or percentage
of profits or turnover.
The annual Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors are endorsed by the Board
for approval by the shareholders of the Company at the AGM.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
56
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART III - REMUNERATION (Cont’d)
3.2 Remuneration of Directors
The Directors’ fees and benefits of the Company are subject to the shareholders’ approval of the Company.
The remuneration of the individual Director of the Company for the FYE 2024 is as follows:-
The Company
Name of Directors
Salaries
RM
Fees
RM
Meeting
and Other
Allowance
RM
Total
RM
Non-Executive Directors
Mohd Rasli bin Muda – 60,000 – 60,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan – 36,000 – 36,000
Low Koon Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Yau Ming Teck – 36,000 – 36,000
Yap Ee Seong – 36,000 – 36,000
Chia Weng Lock – 36,000 – 36,000
Wong Yau Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Total – 276,000 – 276,000
The Group
Name of Directors
Salaries
RM
Fees
RM
Meeting
and Other
Allowance
RM
Total
RM
Non-Executive Directors
Mohd Rasli bin Muda – 60,000 – 60,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan – 36,000 – 36,000
Low Koon Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Yau Ming Teck – 36,000 – 36,000
Yap Ee Seong – 36,000 – 36,000
Chia Weng Lock – 36,000 – 36,000
Wong Yau Min – 36,000 – 36,000
Total – 276,000 – 276,000
The Board is of the opinion that besides confidentiality and personal security concern, the detailed disclosure
of remuneration of the Executive Directors on a named basis may be detrimental to its business interest, given
the industry’s competitiveness. Hence, the company opts not to disclose on a named basis the remuneration
of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of Directors commensurate with their experience, contribution and commitment in
discharging their responsibilities, taking into consideration the Group’s performance. Their remuneration
packages are reviewed by the RC and endorsed by the Board. Furthermore, all fees, allowances and benefits
payable to Non-Executive Directors are subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
The Board determines the fees and benefits of all Directors, including the Non-Executive Directors. Directors
will not participate in the decisions regarding their own fees, benefits and/or remuneration packages.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
57
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Cont’d)
PART III - REMUNERATION (Cont’d)
3.3 Remuneration of Senior Management
The remuneration of the Senior Management of the Company for the FYE 2024 as follows:-
Range of Remuneration No. of Senior Management Officer
Below RM50,000 2
RM50,001 to RM100,000 3
Due to the confidentiality and sensitivity of the remuneration packages of Senior Management as well as
security concerns, the Board opts not to disclose the Senior Management’s remuneration components on a
named basis in the bands of RM50,000.
The Board is of the view that the disclosure of the remuneration of Senior Management on a named basis
would be not in the best interest of the Company given the competitive human resources environment that
may give rise to recruitment and talent retention issues. The Board is of the opinion that the disclosure of
Senior Management’s aggregated remuneration on an unnamed basis in the bands of RM50,000 is adequate.
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE
4.1 Effective and Independent AC
The primary objective of the AC is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to financial
accounting and reporting matters. It also relied upon the Board to, amongst others, provide advice in the
areas of financial reporting, external audits, internal controls environment and internal audit process, review
of related party transactions as well as conflict of interest situations. The AC also undertakes to provide
oversight on the risk management framework of the Group.
The AC is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director, namely Madam Low Koon Min who is distinct
from the Chairman of the Board. In compliance with the MMLR and the Code, the AC comprises three (3)
Non-Executive Directors with a majority of whom are Independent Directors.
The AC members possess the necessary skills and knowledges to discharge their duties in accordance
with the TOR of the AC and they are able to understand matters under the purview of the AC including the
financial reporting process.
The AC will observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years in the event any potential candidate to be
appointed as a member of the AC was a former key audit partner. This policy had been codified in the TOR
of AC of the Company. Currently, none of the members of the AC is a former key audit partner.
The term of office and performance of the AC and its members are reviewed by the NC annually to determine
whether such AC and members have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of reference.
The membership of the AC, summary of the works, the function of the AC in relation to the external auditors
and the number of meetings held since the previous financial year end as well as the attendance of each
member are shown in the Audit Committee Report of the Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
58
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Cont’d)
PART I – AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
4.2 Financial Reporting
The financial statements of the Group were prepared in accordance with the applicable approved accounting
standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016.
The Board is committed to provide a balanced, clear and comprehensive assessment of the Group’s
performance, position and prospects primarily through the annual financial statement, quarterly financial
reports and corporate announcements on significant developments to the shareholders.
The AC assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting process and ensuring the quality of the financial
reporting by the Group. The AC reviews and monitors the accuracy and integrity of the Group’s annual and
quarterly financial statements for an announcement to the public within a stipulated time frame.
In reviewing all the published annual and quarterly financial statements during the FYE 2024, the Directors took
due care and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with accounting standards in all material aspects. For
this purpose, the Directors are updated and briefed by the External Auditors on current accounting practices,
new MFRS, amendments/improvements to MFRSs, new IC Interpretation (“IC Int.”) and amendments to IC
Int. that have been issued but have yet to be effective.
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
5.1 Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board recognises the importance of having effective governance embedding risk management and
internal control processes, and acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of
internal control covering not only financial controls but also relating to operational, compliances and risk
management to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is set out in this Annual Report.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to external professional services firm, to assist the AC
and Board in providing an independent assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the
Group’s internal control system and risk management.
The Internal Auditors shall conduct regular reviews and appraisal of the effectiveness of the governance, risk
management and internal control process within the Group. The outsourced Internal Auditors report directly
to the AC. They are given full access to all the documents relating to the Company and Group’s governance,
financial statements and operational assessments.
The Board acknowledges that risks management and internal control are an integral part of good governance
as risk is inherent in all type of business activities. It is, however, not the Group’s objective to eliminate risk
totally but to provide structural means to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in all the Group’s
activities and to balance between the cost and benefit of managing and treating risks, and the anticipated
returns that will be derived from.
During the financial year under review, the outsourced Internal Auditors had conducted reviews on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the controls on the flour milling business unit and sales orders, delivery and
billing process of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
59
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Cont’d)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)
5.1 Risk Management and Internal Control (cont’d)
To ensure that the responsibilities of Internal Auditors are fully discharged, the AC evaluates the performance
of the Internal Auditors for the FYE 2024 based on the following evaluation criteria as set out in the Internal
Auditors’ Annual Assessment Form:-
a. Calibre of the audit firm;
b. Quality of the internal audit engagement team;
c. Quality of communication and interaction with the internal auditors;
d. Internal audit scope and quality processes;
e. Audit governance and independence; and
f. Internal audit fee.
The AC concluded its assessment that the Internal Auditors have sufficient experiences and resources to
satisfy their terms of reference and adequately deliver quality services to the Group.
The Internal Auditors have and will continue to keep abreast with developments in the profession, relevant
industry and regulations.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PART I – ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
6.1 Continuous Communication with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of being transparent and accountable to the Company’s stakeholders
and as such has various channels to maintain communication with them. The annual report, quarterly
announcements on financial results, relevant announcements on the Group’s business and activities, as well
as the Company’s website are the primary mode of communication with all its stakeholders.
The Company is committed to upholding high standards of transparency and promotion of investor confidence
through the provision of comprehensive, accurate and quality information on a timely and even basis.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through
the Annual Report, AGM and announcements via Bursa Securities. During the AGM, sufficient time will be
allocated for shareholders to ask questions about the Group and its operations.
The Company’s website, www.kfmb.com.my, is established for the shareholders and stakeholders to access
information regarding the Group. Information on the website includes amongst others the Group’s corporate
structure, main business activities and announcements to Bursa Securities.
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
6.2 General Meetings
The Company’s AGM remains the principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders where they are
encouraged to meet Board to have greater insight into the Group operations. Shareholders who are unable
to attend are allowed to appoint proxies to attend, speak and vote on their behalf. During AGM, shareholders
are given the opportunities to raise questions related to the Group’s activities and prospects as well as to
communicate their expectations and concerns to the Company. The Board and the Senior Management
together with the External Auditors and Company Secretaries are available to provide feedback and
responses to the questions raised by shareholders during the meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
60
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS (Cont’d)
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS (CONT”D)
6.2 General Meetings (cont’d)
The notice of the Thirty-Ninth AGM (“39th AGM”) of the Company was circulated to the shareholders at least
twenty-eight (28) days before the AGM which gives shareholders sufficient time to prepare themselves to
attend the AGM or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on their behalf. The notice for the forthcoming
Fortieth AGM (“40th AGM”) will send to the shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the date of the
AGM as well.
An extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”) will be held when shareholders’ approvals are required on specific
matters.
During the proceedings of the 39th AGM convened on 21 March 2024, the Chairman ensured that shareholders
are given the opportunity to comment or raise issues and questions whether pertaining to issues on the
agenda, the annual report, the Group’s strategy or developments in the Group. All questions raised by the
shareholders were answered and addressed accordingly.
The Company has always made the necessary preparation for poll voting for all resolutions tabled at the
AGM and EGM. The Company will explore the suitability and feasibility of employing electronic means for
poll voting.
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A(1) of MMLR of Bursa Securities, all resolutions deliberated during the general
meeting will be put to vote by way of poll and the voting results will be validated by an independent scrutineer
and released to Bursa Securities on the same day.
6.3 Effective Communication and Proactive Engagement
All Directors attended the 39th AGM held on 21 March 2024 saved for Mr. Wong Yau Min who was absent due
to emergency business trip that demand his attention. The Chairman of the Board and its Board Committees
members were available to respond to shareholders’ queries concerning the Company and the Group at the
39th AGM. The External Auditors were also invited to attend the AGM and assist the Board in addressing
relevant queries made by the shareholders.
FromtheCompany’sperspective,theAGM also serves as a forum for Directors to engage with the shareholders
personally to understand their needs and seek their feedback. The Board welcomes questions and feedback
from the shareholders during the shareholders’ meetings and ensures their queries are responded to properly
and systematically.
The summary of the key matters discussed at the AGM will be made public on the Company’s website for
the shareholders’ information.
STATEMENT BY THE BOARD ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
The Board has deliberated, reviewed and approved this Statement. The Board considers and is satisfied that to
the best of its knowledge, the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the MCCG, the relevant chapters of
the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities on corporate governance and all applicable laws and regulations
throughout the FYE 2024, except for the departure set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
61
The members of the Audit Committee (“AC” or “the Committee”) of the Company are pleased to present their
report for the financial year ended 30 September 2024 (“FYE 2024”).
The current members of the AC are as follows: -
Members Designation
Low Koon Min (Chairperson) Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Rasli bin Muda (Member) Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan (Member) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director / Vice
Chairman
The Company has complied with Paragraph 15.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad, which requires all members of the Committee to be Non-Executive Directors, with a majority
being Independent Non-Executive Directors. Additionally, the AC Chairperson, Ms. Low Koon Min, is a member
of the CIMA and the MIA.
The TOR of the AC can be accessed from the corporate website of the Company at www.kfmb.com.my.
Meetings
The Committee shall meet at least four (4) times annually, or more frequently as circumstances dictate. As part
of the duty to foster open communication, the internal auditors and a representative(s) of the external auditors (if
required) will normally attend the meetings. Other Board members and the senior management team may attend
upon invitation by the Committee. The Company Secretaries or any other person appointed by the Committee for
this purpose shall act as Secretary for the Committee and as a reporting procedure, the minutes shall be circulated
to all members of the Committee and the Board.
During the financial year under review, the AC held a total of four (4) meetings. Details of attendance of the
Committee members are as set out below:
Committee Members Attendance
Low Koon Min 4/4
Mohd Rasli bin Muda 4/4
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 4/4
Summary of works for the FYE 2024
The summary of works undertaken by the Committee for the FYE 2024, amongst others, included the following: -
a) In overseeing the Company’s financiall reporting, reviewed the unaudited quarterly financial statements and
the annual audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company and recommended the same for
approval by the Board upon being satisfied that the financial reporting and disclosure requirements of the
relevant authorities have been complied with;
b) Reviewed with the external auditors on the audit planning memorandum, results of the audit, the audit report
and the management letter, including management’s response;
c) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and the Group and issues arising from the
audit of the financial statements highlighted by the external auditors;
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
62
Summary of works for the FYE 2024 (cont’d)
d) Reviewed with the internal auditors, the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings on the
Risk Management and Internal Controls of the Group through the review of an internal audit report tabled and
management responses thereof;
e) Reviewed with the external auditors, the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion
in the Annual Report;
f) Reviewed the related party transactions and/or recurrent related party transactions that transpired within
the Group on a quarterly basis to ascertain that the disclosure procedures are established to monitor the
transaction if any;
g) Self-appraised the performance of the Committee, reviewed and evaluated the performance of the external
auditors and internal auditors for the FYE 2024 and submitted the evaluation to the nomination committee
for assessment;
h) Review the updated Terms of Reference of the AC for adoption by enhancing and incorporating the
sustainability component;
i) Reviewed the AC Report, Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report,
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as well as Additional Compliance Information to ensure
adherence to legal and regulatory reporting requirements before recommending to the Board for approval for
inclusion in the Company’s Annual Report;
j) Reviewed the Circular to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for
Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature;
k) Reviewed and monitored declarations, updates and measures to address any Conflict of Interest (“COI”) or
potential COI situations that may arise within the Group. During the FYE 2024, the Committee reviewed the
Group’s COI disclosures and noted that no COI or potential COI situation was reported to the Committee;
l) Reviewed with the internal auditors, the internal audit report for the internal audit function and considered
the findings of internal audit investigations and management responses thereon, and ensure that appropriate
actions are taken on the recommendations raised by the internal auditors; and
m) Considered and recommended the re-appointment of TGS TW PLT as the external auditor and their audit fee
to the Board for consideration based on the competency, efficiency and transparency as demonstrated by
the auditors during their audit.
Internal Audit (“IA”) Function
The IA functions of the Group, as an integral and essential part of the risk management process, have been
outsourced to a professional firm, namely Kloo Point Risk Management Services Sdn. Bhd. to maintain
independence and attain efficiency in the review and maintenance of the systems of control. The IA monitors
compliance with policies and procedures and the effectiveness of the internal control systems and highlights
significant findings in respect of any non-compliance. On the other hand, the AC will have to monitor and review
the effectiveness of the IA activities performed during the financial year. The annual audit plan will be reviewed and
approved by the AC and the findings of the audits will submit to the Committee for review. The summary of work
of the IA function is disclosed in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control.
For the FYE 2024, the Committee noted that the IA function is independent and has performed its audit assignments
with impartially, proficiency and due professional care.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
63
Introduction
The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance requires the Board to maintain a sound system of risk management
and internal control to safeguard Shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. The Board of Lotus KFM Berhad
(“LKFM”) is committed to maintaining a sound system of internal control and effective risk management and
confirms that there is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing all significant risks faced by the
Group that has been in place for the financial year and up to the date of approval of this Statement.
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”), the Board is pleased to present herewith the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal control for the Group for the financial
year ended 30 September 2024 (“FYE 2024”).
Board’s Responsibilities
The Board recognises the importance of good risk management practices and sound internal controls as a platform
for good corporate governance. The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility in maintain a sound system
of risk management and internal control within the Group to ensure good corporate governance. The Group’s
risk management and system of internal controls are structured to provide reasonable assurance to achieve the
followings:
- Effective and efficient operations;
- Accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting;
- Compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and
- An environment to promote integrity, good ethics and conduct.
The process is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board and is in accordance with the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of Listed Issuers. The Audit Committee (“AC”) assists
the Board in reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management and
has received assurance from the Management that the system is operated adequately and effectively in all material
aspects during the financial year.
In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls in relation to the audit conducted by
internal auditors during the financial year. The Audit issues and the actions taken by the management to address
the issues raised by the internal auditor were discusses during the Board meeting.
However, due to inherent limitations in any internal control system, such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate risks that may impede the achievement of the Group’s business and corporate objectives. In this
regard, the systems and procedures put in place are aimed at minimising and managing risks. All aspects of
financial, organisational, operational, compliance controls as well as risk management procedures are contained
within this system of risk management and internal control.
Risk Management
Risk management is firmly embedded in the Group’s management system. It clearly defined the authority,
responsibility, and accountability in implementing the risk management process and internal control system. The
Board regards risk management as an integral part of the Group’s business operations. The Group had established
a risk management process to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group and formulate
appropriate measures to address those risks.
The responsibility for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system has been delegated
by the Board to the AC. In turn, the AC assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system
and the governance system through independent reviews performed by the internal audit function and external
auditors. The Management assists the Board in implementing the process by identifying, evaluating, and managing
significant risks applicable to their respective areas of business and formulating suitable internal controls to
mitigate and control those risks.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
64
Internal Control System
The Board is committed to maintain a strong control structure and environment for the proper conduct of the
Group’s business operations. The key elements are as follows:
- Organisation and definition of the management structure of Group including areas of responsibilities and
segregation of authorities and limits;
- The Board and AC meet on a quarterly basis and on an ad-hoc basis where there is a need arise to discuss
matters raised by the management, on strategic and operational matters inclusive of potential risks and
control issues;
- The Board had delegated the responsibilities to several committees and to the management of the Company
to implement and monitor designated tasks;
- Performance reports are provided to the Board to facilitate review and monitoring of financial performance;
- Proper guidelines within the Group for recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance
management, training and development, employee communication and human resource administration;
- Structured training and development programs conducted both internally and externally covering all levels
of staff to upgrade their knowledge, skill, and competency;
- Segregation of duties to reduce the scope for error and to prevent collision;
- Health and safety policies and procedures are in place to assist in maintaining a safe working environment
for all employees;
- Sufficient insurance coverage on major asset classes is in place to ensure the Group’s assets are adequately
covered against risks that can result in material losses;
- The working team are set up from time to time to address business and operational issues to meet the
business objectives and operational requirements of the Group;
- Policies and procedures are systematically documented and are in place to guide employees in their daily
operations; and
- Senior Management regularly meets and communicates with employees of different levels to obtain first-
hand knowledge of significant operational matters and risks.
The overall system of internal control is satisfactory and has not resulted in any material losses, contingencies
or uncertainties that would require public disclosure. The Board continues to review and implement measures to
strengthen the internal control environment of the Group.
Internal Audit Function
The Group’s internal audit function was outsourced to an external professional services firm, to assist the AC
in providing an independent assessment on the adequacy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Group’s internal
control system. The internal audit function had been outsourced to Kloo Point Risk Management Services Sdn.
Bhd., a third-party professional internal audit service firm which is independent of the operations and activities of
the Group.
The internal audit plan entails the audit scope, coverage and frequency based on a risk-based approach and is
approved by the AC.
For the financial year under review, the outsourced internal audit function has carried out the following audits:-
• Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures
i) Implementation of the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures
ii) Whistleblowing policy
iii) Implementation of the Human Resources policies and procedures in managing corruption
iv) The reporting and monitoring process of the anti-corruption compliance programme
v) Corruption risk assessment
vi) Training and communication of policies and procedures
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
65
Internal Audit Function (Cont’d)
For the financial year under review, the outsourced internal audit function has carried out the following audits:-
(cont’d)
• Human Resources Management
i) Recruitment and selection process
ii) Recordkeeping and safeguarding of employee personnel files
iii) Termination and exit procedures
iv) Performance management and evaluation
The result of their reviews is reported directly to the AC which includes significant internal audit findings,
recommendations for improvements, Management’s response and proposed action plans. Follow-up reviews of
the implementation of action plans are carried out to ensure that the matters highlighted in the internal audit
reports have been adequately addressed.
Based on the internal audit reviews conducted, none of the weaknesses noted has resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that would require a separate disclosure in this annual report.
The total cost incurred for the FYE 2024 for internal audit function of the Group was RM30,807 (2023: RM30,959).
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Listing Requirements, the external auditors
have performed a limited assurance engagement on this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Group
for the FYE 2024. Based on their review, the external auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come
to their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the
processes adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system of risk management and
internal control of the Group.
The Board is of the view that the Company’s risk management and internal control system is operating effectively
and adequately, in all material aspects, and has received the same assurance from the Financial Controller of
the Company. The Board confirms that the risk management process in identifying, evaluating and managing
significant risks faced by the Company had been in place throughout the FYE 2024 and up to the date of approval
of this statement. The Board maintains an on-going commitment to continue taking appropriate measures to
enhance and strengthen the risk management and internal control system of the Group.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
66
1) UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company did not raise funds through any corporate exercise during the financial year ended 30
September 2024 (“FYE 2024”).
2) AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid or payable to firms or corporations affiliated to the External
Auditors by the Company and the Group for the FYE 2024 are as follows: -
Details of fees
Company
RM'000
Group
RM'000
Audit fees 70 107
Non-audit fees 13 13
3) MATERIAL CONTRACTS
No material contracts (not being contracts entered in the ordinary course of business) have been entered into
by the Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved Directors’ and/or major shareholders’ interest, either
still subsisting at the end of the FYE 2024 or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
4) RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (“RRPTs”)
The details of the Shareholders’ Mandate for the RRPTs are set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated
24 January 2025 which is available on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s website and the Company’s
website.
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the FYE 2024 are disclosed in
Note 25 to the audited financial statements for the FYE 2024.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
67
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, the Board of Directors (“Board”) is required to prepare the financial statements for each financial year
which have been made out in accordance with the applicable Financial Reporting Standards in Malaysia and to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at 30 September 2024 and of
the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Board has undertaken the following measures: -
- Ensure the Group and the Company have applied relevant and appropriate accounting policies consistently
and in line with applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia;
- made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
- prepared the financial statements on going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation,
having made enquiries that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy on the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Group to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirmed that they have complied with the above requirements for the annual financial statements
for the financial year ended 30 September 2024.
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
68
69
Directors’ Report
74
Statement by Directors
74
Statutory Declaration
75
Independent Auditors’ Report
79
Statements of Financial
Position
81
Statements of Profit or Loss
and Other Comprehensive
Income
82
Statements of Changes in
Equity
84
Statements of Cash Flows
87
Notes to the Financial
Statements
Financial
Statements
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
69
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group
and of the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2024.
Principal activities
The Company is principally engaged in flour milling and trading of its related products. The principal activities of
its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries
during the financial year.
Financial results
				
Group Company
				2024 2024
				RM RM
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year,
  representing total comprehensive
  income/(loss) attributable to owners of the Company			 154,267 (1,181,460)
Dividends
There were no dividend proposed, declared or paid by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
The Board of Directors do not recommend any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
Issue of shares and debentures
During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up share capital from RM89,206,992 to
RM90,888,863 by way of issuance of 12,687,800 new ordinary shares pursuant to conversion of 12,687,800 unit
of warrants for total consideration of RM1,681,871.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.
There was no issuance of debentures during the financial year.
Warrants
The movement of the warrants during the financial year are as follows:
Number of units
		At			At
		1.10.2023 Issued Exercised 30.9.2024
Warrant B 2019/2024		 263,988,860 – (12,687,800) 251,301,060
The salient features of the warrants are disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
70
Provision
There were no material transfers to or from provisions during the financial year other than as disclosed in the
financial statements.
Directors
The Directors in office during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Chia Weng Lock
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan*
Lee Wai Fun*
Low Koon Min
Mohd Rasli bin Muda
Yap Ee Seong
Yau Ming Teck
Wong Yau Min
Lim Lian Chee
* Director of the Company and of its subsidiaries
The names of Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date of
this report, not including those Directors mentioned above, are as follows:
Lee Lip Khang
Nordiana Binti Nordin
The information required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia is
deemed incorporated herein by such reference to the financial statements of the respective subsidiaries and made
a part hereof.
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests and deemed interests in the shares and options over shares of the Company and of its related
corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end (including
their spouses or children) according to the Register of Directors’ Shareholding are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		At 			At
		1.10.2023 Bought Sold 30.9.2024
The Company
Direct interests
Mohd Rasli bin Muda		 470,000 – – 470,000
Lee Wai Fun		 33,912,000 – – 33,912,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 200,740,000 – – 200,740,000
Yau Ming Teck		 58,500,000 – – 58,500,000
Chia Weng Lock		 8,330,000 – – 8,330,000
Lim Lian Chee		 145,000 – – 145,000
Indirect interests
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan (#)		300,000,000 – – 300,000,000
Chia Weng Lock (*)		58,136,000 15,000 – 58,151,000
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
71
Directors’ interests in shares (Cont’d)
The interests and deemed interests in the shares and options over shares of the Company and of its related
corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end (including
their spouses or children) according to the Register of Directors’ Shareholding are as follows: (cont’d)
Number of warrants
		At 			At
		1.10.2023 Bought Sold 30.9.2024
The Company
Direct interests
Lee Wai Fun		 16,820,000 – – 16,820,000
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 86,725,000 – – 86,725,000
Yau Ming Teck		 17,750,000 – – 17,750,000
Chia Weng Lock		 4,000,000 – – 4,000,000
Lim Lian Chee		 286,000 – – 286,000
Indirect interests
Chia Weng Lock (*)		 24,015,000 – – 24,015,000
(#) Deemed interest by virtue of shares in Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd.
(*) Deemed interest by virtue of shares in CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd.
By virtue of his interests in the shares of the Company, Datuk Wong Sak Kuan is deemed to has interest in the
shares of all the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that the Company has an interest under Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016.
Other than as disclosed above, none of the other Directors in office at the end of the financial year have any interest
in shares in the Company or its related corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive
a benefit (other than a benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable
by Directors as shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the
Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest.
The Directors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company are as below:
				
Group and Company
					
RM
Salaries and other emoluments					 240,000
Defined contribution plans					
33,600
Social security contributions					
2,318
Directors’ fee					
276,000
					
551,918
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangement whose object was
to enable the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company
or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
72
Indemnity and insurance costs
There was no indemnity given to or insurance premium paid for any Directors, officers and auditors of the Company
during the financial year.
Other statutory information
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took
reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
allowance for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that adequate allowance had been made for
doubtful debts and there were no bad debts to be written off; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business
including the value of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the
Company have been written down to an amount which the current assets might be expected so to
realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render it necessary to write off any bad debts or the amount of the allowance for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial
extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading; or
(iii) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements misleading; or
(iv) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or
liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability of the Group or of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
year.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within
the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may substantially affect the
ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(iii) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of the
operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
73
Subsidiaries
The details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Auditors
The Auditors, TGS TW PLT (202106000004 (LLP0026851-LCA) & AF002345), have expressed their willingness to
continue in the office.
Auditors’ remuneration for the Group and the Company as set out in Note 21 to the financial statements are
RM107,000 and RM70,000 respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 2 January 2025.
_______________________________ _____________________________
DATUK WONG SAK KUAN LEE WAI FUN
KUALA LUMPUR
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
74
We, the undersigned, being the two Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors,
the financial statements set out on pages 79 to 126 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at
30 September 2024 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 2 January 2025.
_______________________________ _______________________________
DATUK WONG SAK KUAN LEE WAI FUN
KUALA LUMPUR
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(1) of the Companies Act 2016
I, Datuk Wong Sak Kuan, being the Director primarily responsible for the financial management of Lotus KFM
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the financial statements
set out on pages 79 to 126 are correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to
be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by
the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory on 2 January 2025 )
)
) _____________________________________
		 DATUK WONG SAK KUAN
Before me,
		
_____________________________________
		 Commissioner for Oaths
		 SHI’ ARATUL AKMAR BINTI SAHARI
		 (No. W788)
		
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
75
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Lotus KFM Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 30 September 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
policy information, as set out on pages 79 to 126.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 30 September 2024, and of their financial performance and of their cash flows for
the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and other ethical responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
(i) Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for trade receivables
Key audit matters How we addressed the key audit matters
Refer to Note 8 to the financial statements, the
Group and the Company have material amount of
trade receivables that amounted to RM6,410,923
and RM5,849,945 respectively. The adequacy of
assessment on recoverability of trade receivables
require the use of estimates and judgements of the
management. The Group and the Company apply
a simplified approach in calculating allowance for
expected credit losses (“ECLs”). Therefore, the Group
and the Company do not track changes in credit
risk, but instead recognise a loss provision based on
lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group and
the Company consider amongst others, their historical
credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking
factors specific to the receivables and the economic
environment.
We performed the following audit procedures,
amongst others:
• We evaluated the management’s assessments
on indicators of impairment or reversal of
impairment.
• We evaluated the reasonableness of the Group’s
and of the Company’s ECL model and adequacy
of allowance for impairment loss by assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s transaction history
with the customers and checking subsequent
receipts from the customers.
• We tested the accuracy and reliability of the trade
receivables ageing report used in the Group’s
and the Company’s ECL model.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
76
Report on the audit of the financial statements (Cont’d)
Key audit matters (Cont’d)
(ii) Revenue recognition
Key audit matters How we addressed the key audit matters
Refer to Note 19 to the financial statements, on
recognition of revenue in accordance with MFRS 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is
recognised through a five-step model by identifying
the contracts, identifying performance obligation,
determine transaction price, allocate transaction
price to performance obligation and recognise
revenue.
Whilst revenue recognition and measurement is
not complex for the Group and the Company,
revenue targets form part of the Group’s and of the
Company’s key performance measures which could
create an incentive to record revenue incorrectly.
We performed the following audit procedures,
amongst others:
• We evaluated the internal controls pertaining to
the timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of
revenue recognised in the financial statements.
• We also conducted substantive tests to confirm
the revenue recognised, tested journal entries
posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual
or irregular items and performed analytical
procedures on the trend of revenue recognised
to identify any unusual fluctuations.
• We performed cut-off test on sampling basis around
the financial year end to check whether revenue is
recognised in the correct accounting period.
• Weunderstoodandreviewedtheappropriateness
of revenue recognition policies.
Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate
the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
77
Report on the audit of the financial statements (Cont’d)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and the Company to
cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our
audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
78
Report on the audit of the financial statements (Cont’d)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (Cont’d)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected
to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
TGS TW PLT
202106000004 (LLP0026851-LCA) & AF002345
Chartered Accountants
KUAN JUN XIAN
03758/06/2025 J
Chartered Accountant
KUALA LUMPUR
2 January 2025
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
79
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 4 55,117,942 56,179,997 19,652,168 21,288,463
Investment in subsidiaries 5 – – 6,014,003 6,124,003
Other investment 6 1 1 1 1
		55,117,943 56,179,998 25,666,172 27,412,467
Current assets
Inventories 7 290,653 836,339 290,653 836,339
Trade receivables 8 6,410,923 6,356,863 5,849,945 4,945,217
Other receivables 9 16,703,497 10,086,803 7,219,599 7,183,423
Amount due from
 
subsidiaries 10 – – 31,022,417 23,451,676
Tax recoverable		202,164 184,972 200,748 183,556
Fixed deposits with
 
licensed banks 11 12,403,590 10,112,345 10,384,938 10,112,345
Cash and bank balances		 11,145,238 16,810,259 9,104,068 14,621,740
		47,156,065 44,387,581 64,072,368 61,334,296
Total assets		102,274,008 100,567,579 89,738,540 88,746,763
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital 12 90,888,863 89,206,992 90,888,863 89,206,992
Warrant reserves 13 8,181,894 8,594,985 8,181,894 8,594,985
Accumulated losses		 (18,551,377) (18,705,644) (20,925,963) (19,744,503)
Total equity		80,519,380 79,096,333 78,144,794 78,057,474
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
80
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities 14 6,793,540 7,584,078 6,137,440 6,927,978
Deferred tax liabilities 15 7,648,002 7,677,080 – –
		14,441,542 15,261,158 6,137,440 6,927,978
Current liabilities
Trade payables 16 4,778,711 3,662,282 3,255,532 1,526,063
Other payables 17 1,291,772 919,706 981,900 612,969
Contract liabilities 18 428,336 891,533 428,336 891,533
Lease liabilities 14 790,538 730,746 790,538 730,746
Tax payable		
23,729 5,821 – –
		7,313,086 6,210,088 5,456,306 3,761,311
Total liabilities		21,754,628 21,471,246 11,593,746 10,689,289
Total equity and liabilities		102,274,008 100,567,579 89,738,540 88,746,763
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(cont'd)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
81
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue 19 50,700,489 58,507,920 41,623,237 51,610,614
Cost of sales		 (48,764,075) (54,364,503) (41,293,955) (48,754,153)
Gross profit		1,936,414 4,143,417 329,282 2,856,461
Other income		 727,512 1,292,798 727,512 1,392,262
Selling and distribution expenses		 (105,184) (135,333) (105,184) (135,333)
Administrative expenses		 (2,725,027) (2,835,893) (2,283,719) (2,239,237)
Other expenses		 – (90,899) (110,000) (90,899)
(Loss)/Profit from operations		 (166,285) 2,374,090 (1,442,109) 1,783,254
Finance costs 20 (273,575) (299,227) (273,575) (299,227)
Finance income 20 582,957 440,159 534,224 433,673
Profit/(Loss) before tax 21 143,097 2,515,022 (1,181,460) 1,917,700
Tax income 22 11,170 146,871 – 135,000
Profit/(Loss) for the financial
  year/Total comprehensive
  income/(loss) for the financial year		 154,267 2,661,893 (1,181,460) 2,052,700
Profit/(Loss) for the financial
  year attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 154,267 2,661,893 (1,181,460) 2,052,700
Total comprehensive income/
  (loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 154,267 2,661,893 (1,181,460) 2,052,700
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (sen) 24 0.02 0.26
Diluted earnings per share (sen) 24 0.01 0.24
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
82
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
		 Share Warrant Accumulated Total
		
capital reserve losses equity
Note RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 October 2022		 88,700,686 8,719,341 (21,367,537) 76,052,490
Profit for the financial year,
  representing total comprehensive
  income for the financial year		 – – 2,661,893 2,661,893
Transaction with owners:
Issuance of shares pursuant
  to warrants exercised 12,13 506,306 (124,356) – 381,950
At 30 September 2023 		 89,206,992 8,594,985 (18,705,644) 79,096,333
At 1 October 2023		 89,206,992 8,594,985 (18,705,644) 79,096,333
Profit for the financial year,
  representing total comprehensive
  income for the financial year		 – – 154,267 154,267
Transaction with owners:
Issuance of shares pursuant
  to warrants exercised 12,13 1,681,871 (413,091) – 1,268,780
At 30 September 2024		 90,888,863 8,181,894 (18,551,377) 80,519,380
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
83
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
		 Share Warrant Accumulated Total
		
capital reserve losses equity
Note RM RM RM RM
Company
At 1 October 2022		 88,700,686 8,719,341 (21,797,203) 75,622,824
Profit for the financial year,
  representing total comprehensive
  income for the financial year		 – – 2,052,700 2,052,700
Transaction with owners:
Issuance of shares pursuant
  to warrants exercised 12,13 506,306 (124,356) – 381,950
At 30 September 2023		 89,206,992 8,594,985 (19,744,503) 78,057,474
At 1 October 2023		 89,206,992 8,594,985 (19,744,503) 78,057,474
Loss for the financial year,
  representing total comprehensive
  loss for the financial year		 – – (1,181,460) (1,181,460)
Transaction with owners:
Issuance of shares pursuant
  to warrants exercised 12,13 1,681,871 (413,091) – 1,268,780
At 30 September 2024		 90,888,863 8,181,894 (20,925,963) 78,144,794
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
84
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from
  operating activities
  Profit/(Loss) before tax		 143,097 2,515,022 (1,181,460) 1,917,700
Adjustments for:
  Depreciation of property,
  
plant and equipment		1,750,424 1,760,677 1,636,295 1,646,548
  Gain on disposal
   of other investment		 – (479,999) – (479,999)
  Gain on modification
   of lease contract		 – (140,821) – (140,821)
 
Interest expense		273,575 299,227 273,575 299,227
 
Interest income		 (582,957) (440,159) (534,224) (433,673)
  Provision for slow
  moving inventories		 – 90,899 – 90,899
  Net addition/(reversal) of
  impairment losses
  on investment
  in subsidiaries		 – – 110,000 (123,998)
  Waiver of debts		 – (24,534) – –
Operating profit before
 
working capital changes		1,584,139 3,580,312 304,186 2,775,883
Changes in working capital:
 
Inventories		545,686 553,059 545,686 553,059
 
Receivables		(6,670,754) 657,770 (940,904) 1,449,957
 
Payables		1,488,495 2,457,132 2,098,400 1,085,707
 
Contract liabilities		 (463,197) (523,505) (463,197) (523,505)
Cash (used in)/generated
 
from operations		(3,515,631) 6,724,768 1,544,171 5,341,101
 
Tax paid		 (17,192) (70,890) (17,192) (70,890)
 
Tax refund		– 5,827 – –
  Interest received		 291,712 200,776 261,631 194,290
Net cash (used in)/from
  operating activities		 (3,241,111) 6,860,481 1,788,610 5,464,501
Cash flows from
  investing activities
 
Interest received 		291,245 239,383 272,593 239,383
  Acquisition of property,
   plant and equipment A (688,369) (996,913) – –
  Proceeds from disposal
   of other investment		 – 480,000 – 480,000
Net cash (used in)/from
  investing activities		 (397,124) (277,530) 272,593 719,383
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
85
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(cont'd)
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from
 financing activities
  Advances to subsidiaries		 – – (7,570,741) (407,071)
  Issuance of shares pursuant					
   to warrants exercised		 1,268,780 381,950 1,268,780 381,950
 
Interest paid		 (273,575) (299,227) (273,575) (299,227)
 
(Placement)/Uplift of fixed					
  
deposit pledged with					
  licensed banks		 (204,069) 2,277,276 (204,069) 2,277,276
  Repayments of lease liabilities B (730,746) (687,775) (730,746) (687,775)
Net cash from/(used in)
 
financing activities		 60,390 1,672,224 (7,510,351) 1,265,153
Net cash (decrease)/increase in
 
cash and cash equivalents		(3,577,845) 8,255,175 (5,449,148) 7,449,037
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of the financial year		 18,827,963 10,572,788 16,639,444 9,190,407
Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of the financial year		 15,250,118 18,827,963 11,190,296 16,639,444
Cash and cash equivalents
  at end of the financial
  year comprises:
Cash and bank balances		 11,145,238 16,810,259 9,104,068 14,621,740
Fixed deposits with
 
licensed banks		12,403,590 10,112,345 10,384,938 10,112,345
		23,548,828 26,922,604 19,489,006 24,734,085
Less: Fixed deposits pledged
	  with licensed banks 11 (8,298,710) (8,094,641) (8,298,710) (8,094,641)
		15,250,118 18,827,963 11,190,296 16,639,444
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
86
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
A. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Total acquistion of property,
  plant and equipment		 688,369 4,086,338 – 3,089,425
Less: Aquisition by means
	  of lease liabilities		 – (3,089,425) – (3,089,425)
Total cash payment		 688,369 996,913 – –
B. Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Included in net cash (used in)/
  from operating activities
Payment relating to
  short-term leases 21 57,959 57,305 57,959 57,305
Included in net cash from/
  (used in) financing activities
Interest paid on lease liabilities 20 273,575 299,227 273,575 299,227
Payment of lease liabilities		 730,746 687,775 730,746 687,775
			 1,004,321 987,002 1,004,321 987,002
			 1,062,280 1,044,307 1,062,280 1,044,307
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(cont'd)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
87
1. Corporate information
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on
the Main Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office of the Company is located at Third Floor, No. 77, 79 & 81, Jalan SS 21/60, Damansara
Utama, 47400 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The principal place of business of the Company is located at Kawasan Lembaga Pelabuhan Kuantan KM25,
Jalan Kuantan/Kemaman, Tanjung Gelang, 26080 Kuantan, Pahang Darul Makmur.
The Company is principally engaged in flour milling and trading of its related products. The principal activities
of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries
during the financial year.
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical
cost convention, unless otherwise indicated in the financial statements.
(i) Adoption of new and amended standards
During the financial year, the Group and the Company have adopted the following amendments
to MFRSs issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) that are mandatory for
current financial year:
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 -
Comparative Information
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules
The adoption of the new and amendments to MFRSs did not have any significant impact on the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company, except for the followings:
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
2. Basis of preparation (Cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
(i) Adoption of new and amended standards (cont’d)
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Disclosure of Accounting
Policies
The amendments require the disclosure of “material”, rather than “significant”, accounting
policies. The amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure
of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting policy
information that users need to understand other information in the financial statements.
Although the amendments did not result in any changes to the Group’s and the Company’s accounting
policies, it impacted the accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements. The
material accounting policy information is disclosed in the Note 3 to the financial statements.
(ii) Standard issued but not yet effective
The Group and the Company have not applied the following new and amendments to MFRSs that
have been issued by the MASB but are not yet effective for the Group and the Company:
			 Effective dates
			 for financial
			 years beginning
			 on or after
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as 1 January 2024
		  Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 Supplier Finance Arrangements 1 January 2024
  and MFRS 7
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 9 Amendments to the Classification and 1 January 2026
  and MFRS 7 Measurement of Financial Instruments
Annual Improvement Amendments to MFRS 1 1 January 2026
  - Volume 11	  Amendments to MFRS 7
		  Amendments to MFRS 9
		  Amendments to MFRS 10
		  Amendments to MFRS 107
MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in 1 January 2027
		  Financial Statements
MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public 1 January 2027
		  Accountabilities Disclosures
Amendments to MFRS 10 Sales or Contribution of Assets Deferred until
  and MFRS 128	  between an Investor and its further notice
		  Associate or Joint Venture
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
89
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
2. Basis of preparation (Cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
(ii) Standard issued but not yet effective (cont’d)
The Group and the Company intend to adopt the above new and amendments MFRSs when they
become effective.
The initial applications of the above-mentioned MFRSs are not expected to have any significant
impacts on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
(b) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Group’s and the
Company’s functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to
the nearest thousand except when otherwise stated.
(c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial statements require management to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses,
assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the reporting date. However,
uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a
material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in the future.
Judgements
The following are the judgements made by management in the process of applying the Group’s and the
Company’s accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the
financial statements:
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal and termination options - Group and Company
as lessee
The Group and the Company determine the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease,
together with any periods covered by an option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be
exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to
be exercised.
The Group and the Company have several lease contracts that include extension and termination
options. The Group and the Company apply judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain
whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That is, it considers all relevant
factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. After the
commencement date, the Group and the Company reassess the lease term if there is a significant
event or change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to
exercise the option to renew or to terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements
or significant customisation to the leased asset).
The Group and the Company include the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases of land and
building with non-cancellable period included as part of the lease term as these are reasonably certain
to be exercised because there will be a significant negative effect on operation if a replacement asset
is not readily available. Furthermore, the periods covered by termination options are included as part of
the lease term only when they are reasonably certain not to be exercised.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
2. Basis of preparation (Cont’d)
(c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (cont’d)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end
of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next reporting period are set out below:
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
The Group and the Company regularly review the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment
based on factors such as business plan and strategies, expected level of usage and future technological
developments. Future results of operations could be materially affected by changes in these estimates
brought about by changes in the factors mentioned above. A reduction in the estimated useful lives
of property, plant and equipment would increase the recorded depreciation and decrease the value
of property, plant and equipment. The carrying amount at the reporting date for property, plant and
equipment is disclosed in Note 4 to financial statements.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The Group and the Company assess whether there is any indication that property, plant and equipment
is impaired at the end of each reporting period. Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying
amount of an asset with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is measured at the higher of
the fair value less cost of disposal for that asset and its value in use. The value in use is the net present
value of the projected future cash flow derived from that asset discounted at an appropriate discount
rate. Projected future cash flows are calculated based on historical, sector and industry trends, general
market and economic conditions, changes in technology and other available information. Changes to
any of these assumptions would affect the amount of impairment.
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries
The Company reviews its investments in subsidiaries when there are indicators of impairment.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an investment with its recoverable
amount. Significant judgement is required in determining the recoverable amount.
Estimating the recoverable amount requires the Company to make an estimate of the expected future
cash flows from the cash-generating units and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order
to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount at the reporting date for
investment in subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unutilised tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances and
other deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be
available against which the unutilised tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances and other deductible
temporary differences can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the
amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future
taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. The carrying value of unrecognised deferred
tax assets is disclosed in Note 22 to the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
2. Basis of preparation (Cont’d)
(c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (cont’d)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Inventories valuation
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group and the Company
estimate the net realisable value of inventories based on an assessment of expected selling prices.
Demand levels and pricing competition could change from time to time. If such factors result in an
adverse effect on the Group’s and the Company’s products, the Group and the Company might be
required to reduce the value of its inventories. Details of inventories are disclosed in Note 7 to the
financial statements.
Determination of transaction prices
The Group and the Company are required to determine the transaction price in respect of each of
its contracts with customers. In making such judgement the Group and the Company assess the
impact of any variable consideration in the contract due to discounts or penalties, the existence of any
significant financing component and any non-cash consideration in the contract.
There is no estimation required in determining the transaction price, as revenue from sale of goods are
based on invoiced values. Discounts are not considered as they are not only given in rare circumstances.
Provision for expected credit loss of financial assets at amortised cost
The Group and the Company review the recoverability of their receivables at each reporting date to
assess whether an impairment loss should be recognised. The impairment provisions for receivables
are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. The Group and the Company
use judgement in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation,
based on the Group’s and the Company’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward
looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
The Group and the Company use a provision matrix to calculate expected credit loss for trade and
other receivables. The provision rates are based on number of days past due.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience.
At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-
looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic
conditions and expected credit loss is a significant estimate. The carrying amounts at the reporting
date for receivables are disclosed in Notes 8, 9 and 10 to the financial statements.
Discount rate used in leases
Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group and the Company
use the incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate is
the interest rate that the Group and the Company would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, the
funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic
environment. Therefore, the incremental borrowing rate requires estimation, particularly when no
observable rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions
of the lease. The Group and the Company estimate the incremental borrowing rate using observable
inputs when available and is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
2. Basis of preparation (Cont’d)
(c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (cont’d)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Income taxes
Judgement is involved in determining the provision for income taxes. There are certain transactions
and computations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of
business.
The Group and the Company recognise liabilities for expected tax issues based on estimates of whether
additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts
that were initially recognised, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions
in the period in which such determination is made.
3. Material accounting policies
The Group and the Company apply the material accounting policies set out below, consistently throughout
all periods presented in the financial statements unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The
Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over
the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the
Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The
consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets
transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
and contingent liabilities assumed in business combination are measured initially at their fair
values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non- controlling interest in the acquiree
on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed in profit or loss as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquirer’s previously held equity interest
in the acquiree is re-measured at its acquisition-date fair value and the resulting gain or loss is
recognised in profit or loss.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which
the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement
period (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities
are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed
at the acquisition date, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
93
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
3. Material accounting policies (CONT’D)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(i) Subsidiaries (cont’d)
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between
Group entities are eliminated. Unrealised losses are eliminated only if there is no indication of
impairment. Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiary companies have been changed
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investment in subsidiaries are stated at cost
less accumulated impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between
net disposal proceeds and their carrying amounts are recognised in profit or loss. Where an
indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is assessed and written
down immediately to its recoverable amount.
(ii) Loss of control
Upon the loses control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognised the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, including any goodwill, and non-controlling interests and other components of
equity related to the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any
surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains
any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is remeasured at fair value at the date that
control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity- accounted investee or as a financial
asset depending on the level of influence retained.
(b) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and less any
impairment losses.
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on straight line basis to write off the cost or
valuation of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life. Capital work-in-progress
is not depreciated until the assets are ready for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated based on the estimated useful lives of the assets
as follows:
Leasehold lands Over the lease term
Buildings, factory and civil works 20 to 50 years
Factory Over the lease term
Office Over the lease term
Wheat silos Over the lease term
Plant and machinery 10 to 30 years
Equipment and fixtures 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period to ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent
with previous estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits
embodied in the property, plant and equipment.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
3. Material accounting policies (cONT’D)
(b) Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
(iii) Bearer plant
A bearer plant is a living plant that is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce, is
expected to bear produce for more than one period and has a remote likelihood of being sold as
agricultural produce. The bearer plant of the Group are eucalyptus trees.
Cost of bearer plants consists of plantation development costs incurred from the commencement
of planting of tree up to the maturity of the crop cultivated.
Immature bearer plants are measured at accumulated costs of planting of bearer plants, similar
to accounting for a self-constructed item of property, plant and equipment. Bearer plants are
classified as immature until the trees are available for harvest. At that point, bearer plants are
measured at amortised cost and depreciated over their useful life.
(iv) Derecognition
Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds,
if any, and the net carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
(c) Leases
As lessee
(i) Lease and non-lease components
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease components, the Group and
the Company allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease components
on the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of properties in which the
Group and the Company are lessees, they have elected not to separate non-lease components
and will instead account the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
(ii) Recognition exemption
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognised right-of-use assets and liabilities
for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets.
The Group and the Company recognise the lease payments associated with these leases as an
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(iii) Depreciation
The ROU assets under cost model is depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the ROU assets or the end of
the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the ROU assets are determined on the same basis
as those of property, plant and equipment as follows:
Leasehold lands Over the lease term
Factory Over the lease term
Office Over the lease term
Wheat silos Over the lease term
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
95
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
3. Material accounting policies (cONT’D)
(c) Leases (cont’d)
As lessor
When the Group and the Company act as lessors, they determine at lease inception whether each lease
is a finance lease or an operating lease. Leases in which the Group and the Company do not transfer
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income from operating lease recognised as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The lease payment recognised is included as part of “Other income”. Initial direct costs incurred in
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and
recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
(d) Financial instruments
At the reporting date, the Group and the Company have financial assets at fair value through profit
and loss (“FVTPL”) and financial assets at amortised cost on their statements of financial position.
The Group’s financial asset at FVTPL includes other investment and financial assets at amortised cost
include trade and other receivables, fixed deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances.
The Company’s financial asset at FVTPL includes other investment and financial assets at amortised
cost include trade and other receivables, amount due from subsidiaries, fixed deposits with licensed
banks and cash and bank balances.
At the reporting date, the Group and the Company carry only financial liabilities at amortised cost on
their statements of financial position. The Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities at amortised
cost include trade and other payables, and lease liabilities.
(e) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable values.
Cost of raw materials and consumables comprise cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing
it to their present location and condition are determined on a weighted average basis.
Cost of finished goods consists of direct materials, direct labour and appropriate proportion of
production overheads (based on normal operating capacity) are stated on standard cost basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(f) Contract liabilities
Contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to customers for which the Group
and the Company have received the consideration or has billed the customers. The Group’s and the
Company’s contract liability is the excess of the billings to-date over the revenue recognised. Contract
liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group and the Company perform their obligation under
the contracts.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
3. Material accounting policies (cONT’D)
(g) Revenue recognition
(i) Revenue from contracts with customers
The Group and the Company recognise revenue from the following major source:
Sales of goods - wholesale
The Group and the Company manufacture and sell flour, starch, chemical, wood and bamboo
chips and related products in the wholesale market. Revenue from sale of goods is recognised
when control of the products has transferred, being the products are delivered to the customer.
Following delivery of the goods to the wholesaler’s specific location, the wholesaler has full
discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, and bears the risks of
obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.
Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract net of rebates, discounts and
taxes. Payment of the transaction price is due immediately at the point the customer purchases
the goods.
A receivable is recognised by the Group and the Company when the goods are delivered as this
represents the point in time at which the right to consideration is unconditional, because only the
passage of time is required before payment is due. No element of financing is deemed as the
revenue recognised with a credit term of 14 to 90 days, which is consistent with market practice.
(ii) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. The aggregate costs
of incentives provided to lessees are recognised as a reduction of rental income over the lease
term on a straight-line basis.
(iii) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on accruals basis using the effective interest method.
(h) Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-makers are responsible for allocating
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments and make overall strategic decisions.
The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the
products and services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers
different products and serves different markets.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
97
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
4. Property, plant and equipment
			
Buildings,				
Immature Plant Equipment		
Capital
		 Leasehold factory and			
Wheat bearer and and Motor work-in-
		 lands civil works Factory Office silos plant machinery fixtures vehicles progress Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1 October 2022 34,112,050 9,876,990 5,261,139 3,884,277 439,790 - 41,202,102 4,693,171 124,093 2,483,330 102,076,942
Additions – – – 3,089,425 – 996,913 – – – – 4,086,338
Modification of
 
lease contract – – – (3,884,277) – – – – – – (3,884,277)
Reclassification – – – – – – 2,483,330 – – (2,483,330) –
At 30 September
 
2023 34,112,050 9,876,990 5,261,139 3,089,425 439,790 996,913 43,685,432 4,693,171 124,093 – 102,279,003
Additions 377,506 – – – – 310,863 – – – – 688,369
At 30 September
 
2024 34,489,556 9,876,990 5,261,139 3,089,425 439,790 1,307,776 43,685,432 4,693,171 124,093 – 102,967,372
Accumulated
 depreciation
At 1 October 2022 103,300 7,608,903 928,437 1,099,323 159,924 – 26,257,675 4,359,164 124,083 – 40,640,809
Charge for the
 
financial year 114,129 114,558 309,479 489,847 53,308 – 570,721 108,635 – – 1,760,677
Modification of
 
lease contract – – – (1,245,900) – – – – – – (1,245,900)
At 30 September
 
2023 217,429 7,723,461 1,237,916 343,270 213,232 – 26,828,396 4,467,799 124,083 – 41,155,586
Charge for the
 
financial year 114,129 111,751 309,479 514,904 53,308 – 559,738 87,115 – – 1,750,424
At 30 September
 
2024 331,558 7,835,212 1,547,395 858,174 266,540 – 27,388,134 4,554,914 124,083 – 42,906,010
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
4. Property, plant and equipment (cONT’D)
			
Buildings,				
Immature Plant Equipment		
Capital
		 Leasehold factory and			
Wheat bearer and and Motor work-in-
		 lands civil works Factory Office silos plant machinery fixtures vehicles progress Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
Accumulated
  impairment losses
At 1 October 2022/
  30 September 2023/
 
30 September 2024 – 1,729,204 – – – – 3,214,216 – – – 4,943,420
Carrying amount
At 30 September
 
2024 34,157,998 312,574 3,713,744 2,231,251 173,250 1,307,776 13,083,082 138,257 10 – 55,117,942
At 30 September
 
2023 33,894,621 424,325 4,023,223 2,746,155 226,558 996,913 13,642,820 225,372 10 – 56,179,997
		 Buildings, 					
Equipment
		 factory and			 Wheat Plant and and Motor Capital work-
		 civil works Factory Office silos machinery fixtures vehicles in-progress Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company
Cost
At 1 October 2022 9,876,990 5,261,139 3,884,277 439,790 41,202,102 4,693,171 124,093 2,483,330 67,964,892
Additions – – 3,089,425 – – – – – 3,089,425
Modification of
 
lease contract – – (3,884,277) – – – – – (3,884,277)
Reclassification – – – – 2,483,330 – – (2,483,330) –
At 30 September 2023/
30 September 2024 9,876,990 5,261,139 3,089,425 439,790 43,685,432 4,693,171 124,093 – 67,170,040
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
99
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
4. Property, plant and equipment (cONT’D)
		 Buildings, 					
Equipment
		 factory and			 Wheat Plant and and Motor Capital work-
		 civil works Factory Office silos machinery fixtures vehicles in-progress Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company (cont’d)
Cost (cont’d)
Accumulated
 depreciation
At 1 October 2022 7,608,903 928,437 1,099,323 159,924 26,257,675 4,359,164 124,083 – 40,537,509
Charge for the
 
financial year 114,558 309,479 489,847 53,308 570,721 108,635 – – 1,646,548
Modification of
 
lease contract – – (1,245,900) – – – – – (1,245,900)
At 30 September
 
2023 7,723,461 1,237,916 343,270 213,232 26,828,396 4,467,799 124,083 – 40,938,157
Charge for the
 
financial year 111,751 309,479 514,904 53,308 559,738 87,115 – – 1,636,295
At 30 September
 
2024 7,835,212 1,547,395 858,174 266,540 27,388,134 4,554,914 124,083 – 42,574,452
Accumulated
  impairment losses
At 1 October 2022
/30 September 2023
/30 September 2024 1,729,204 – – – 3,214,216 – – – 4,943,420
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2024 312,574 3,713,744 2,231,251 173,250 13,083,082 138,257 10 – 19,652,168
At 30 September 2023 424,325 4,023,223 2,746,155 226,558 13,642,820 225,372 10 – 21,288,463
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
4. Property, plant and equipment (cONT’D)
(a) Including in net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are right-of-use assets as follows:
		 Group Company
			 2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Leasehold lands		34,157,998 33,894,621 – –
Factory		3,713,744 4,023,223 3,713,744 4,023,223
Office		2,231,251 2,746,155 2,231,251 2,746,155
Wheat silos		173,250 226,558 173,250 226,558
			40,276,243 40,890,557 6,118,245 6,995,936
(b) Depreciation of right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group Company
			 2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Leasehold lands		114,129 114,129 – –
Factory		309,479 309,479 309,479 309,479
Office		514,904 489,847 514,904 489,847
Wheat silos		53,308 53,308 53,308 53,308
			991,820 966,763 877,691 852,634
(c) Additional to the right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group Company
			 2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Office		 – 3,089,425 – 3,089,425
(d) Immature bearer plant represent planting expenditure which consist of expenses incurred in connection
with the planting of the Eucalyptus trees.
(e) Included in the carrying amount of the leasehold lands of the Group is an amount of RM28,783,130
(2023: RM28,405,624) which is not subject to depreciation as the leasehold lands are not commenced
in use.
Group and Company as lessor
The Group and the Company have entered into operating leases in their right-of-use assets consisting of
office. This lease is on short-term basis. This lease includes a clause to enable upward revision of the rental
charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market conditions. Rental income recognised by the
Group and the Company during the financial year is RM577,200 (2023: RM541,800).
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
101
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
5. Investment in subsidiaries
			 Company
					2024 2023
				RM RM
In Malaysia
At cost
Unquoted shares				6,324,005 6,324,005
Less: Accumulated impairment losses				 (310,002) (200,002)
					6,014,003 6,124,003
Investment in subsidiaries are impaired at reporting date when the recoverable amount of the subsidiaries is
lower than cost of investment. The movement of accumulated impairment losses during the financial year is
as follows:
			 Company
					2024 2023
				RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 200,002 324,000
Net addition/(reversal)				
110,000 (123,998)
At end of the financial year				 310,002 200,002
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Place of
business/
Country of
incorporation
Effective
interest (%)
Principal activities
2024 2023
Direct subsidiaries
KFM Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
(“KMSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Trading of industrial related products.
Lotus Plantation Sdn. Bhd.
(“LPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Holding companies, planting, replanting,
transplanting, thinning and conserving
of forests and timber tracts, and
wholesale of a variety of goods
without any particular specialisation
not elsewhere classified.
LKB Plantation Sdn. Bhd.
(“LKPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Holding companies, planting, replanting,
transplanting, thinning and conserving
of forests and timber tracts, and
wholesale of a variety of goods
without any particular specialisation
not elsewhere classified.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
5. Investment in subsidiaries (Cont’d)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (cont’d)
Name of company
Place of
business/
Country of
incorporation
Effective
interest (%)
Principal activities
2024 2023
Subsidiaries of LPSB
ASV Jaya Resources Sdn. Bhd.
(“AJRSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 To plant, grow cultivate, produce and
raise forest plantations of all kinds or
varities of forest plants, tree and crops
and nature products of any kind.
Sam Jaya Plantation Sdn. Bhd.
(“SJPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 To plant, grow cultivate, produce and
raise forest plantations of all kinds or
varities of forest plants, tree and crops
and nature products of any kind.
Hijau Ria Solutions Sdn. Bhd.
(“HJRSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Wholesale of lumber and timber.
Ladang Lojing Sdn. Bhd.
(“LLSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Forestry operation on a fee or contract
basis for logging service activities.
Khas Jadi Sdn. Berhad
(“KJSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Timber logging and production of round
wood used in an unprocessed form.
6. Other investment
		 Group and Company
					2024 2023
				RM RM
Unquoted shares in Malaysia, at FVTPL
At beginning of the financial year				 1 2
Less: Disposal during the financial year				 – (1)
At end of the financial year				 1 1
7. Inventories
		 Group and Company
					2024 2023
				RM RM
Raw materials				168,033 691,281
Finished goods				36,142 54,929
Consumables				86,478 90,129
					290,653 836,339
Recognised in profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as cost of sales				 39,158,470 46,294,260
Provision for slow moving inventories				 – 90,899
The provision of slow moving inventories is made when the related inventories were obsolete.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
103
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
8. Trade receivables
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Trade receivables		6,461,317 6,407,257 5,900,339 4,995,611
Allowance for ECLs		 (50,394) (50,394) (50,394) (50,394)
			6,410,923 6,356,863 5,849,945 4,945,217
The trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are recognised at their original invoice amounts which
represent their fair values on initial recognition. The normal credit terms granted to the customers ranged
from 14 days to 90 days (2023: 14 to 90 days). Other credit terms are assessed and approved by the
management on case-by-case basis.
The movements of expected credit losses are as follows:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
At beginning/end of
 
the financial year		50,394 50,394 50,394 50,394
The following table provide information about the exposure to credit risk and allowance for ECLs for trade
receivables:
				
Gross		
Net
				amount ECLs amount
			RM RM RM
Group
2024
Not past due			 4,265,872 – 4,265,872
Past due:
Less than 30 days			 1,205,927 – 1,205,927
30 to 60 days			 821,726 – 821,726
60 to 90 days			 81,029 – 81,029
Past due more than 90 days			 86,763 (50,394) 36,369
				 6,461,317 (50,394) 6,410,923
2023
Not past due			 4,153,586 – 4,153,586
Past due:
Less than 30 days			 1,962,907 – 1,962,907
30 to 60 days			 5,390 (4,198) 1,192
60 to 90 days			 79,560 (22,970) 56,590
Past due more than 90 days			 205,814 (23,226) 182,588
				 6,407,257 (50,394) 6,356,863
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
8. Trade receivables (Cont’d)
The following table provide information about the exposure to credit risk and allowance for ECLs for trade
receivables: (cont’d)
				
Gross		
Net
				amount ECLs amount
			RM RM RM
Company
2024
Not past due			 4,052,230 – 4,052,230
Past due:
Less than 30 days			 879,166 – 879,166
30 to 60 days			 801,151 – 801,151
60 to 90 days			 81,029 – 81,029
Past due more than 90 days			 86,763 (50,394) 36,369
				 5,900,339 (50,394) 5,849,945
2023
Not past due			 3,426,517 – 3,426,517
Past due:
Less than 30 days			 1,278,330 – 1,278,330
30 to 60 days			 5,390 (4,198) 1,192
60 to 90 days			 79,560 (22,970) 56,590
Past due more than 90 days			 205,814 (23,226) 182,588
				 4,995,611 (50,394) 4,945,217
9. Other receivables
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Non-trade receivables		68,861 78,604 68,861 78,604
Advances		8,389 9,164 8,389 9,164
Advances to a supplier		6,710,000 6,710,000 6,710,000 6,710,000
Deposits		2,153,966 2,160,892 254,862 261,788
Prepayment		7,762,281 1,128,143 177,487 123,867
			16,703,497 10,086,803 7,219,599 7,183,423
Included in non-trade receivables of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM68,861 (2023:
RM78,604) due from a company in which a Director has interest which is unsecured, non-interest bearing
and repayable on demand.
The advances to a supplier of the Group and of the Company was paid to a company in which a Director has
interest for purchase of inventories.
Included in deposits of the Group are amount of RM449,104 (2023: RM449,104) paid for acquisition of
subsidiaries and an amount of RM1,340,000 (2023: RM1,340,000) paid to local authority for permit, license
and right for the land usage.
Included in the prepayment of the Group are amount of RM7,534,800 (2023: RM969,800) related to logging
premium, permit fee, and border marking fee paid to the Perak State Forestry Department.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
105
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
10. Amount due from subsidiaries
Amount due from subsidiaries are non-trade in nature, unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
11. Fixed deposits with licensed banks
Fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period bear
an effective interest rate ranging from 2.00% to 3.70% (2023: 2.00% to 3.34%) and 2.00% to 3.35% (2023:
2.00% to 3.34%) respectively. The maturity period of the fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and
of the Company are ranging from 30 to 90 (2023: 30 to 90) days.
Fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company amounting to RM8,298,710 (2023:
RM8,094,641) are pledged as security for bank borrowings of the Group and of the Company.
12. Share capital
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			Units Units RM RM
Issued and fully paid
At beginning of
 financial year		1,022,794,404 1,018,974,904 89,206,992 88,700,686
Issuance of share
- Exercise of warrants		 12,687,800 3,819,500 1,681,871 506,306
At end of the
 financial year		1,035,482,204 1,022,794,404 90,888,863 89,206,992
During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up share capital from RM89,206,992 to
RM90,888,863 (2023: RM88,700,686 to RM89,206,992) by way of issuance of 12,687,800 (2023: 3,189,500)
new ordinary shares pursuant to conversion of 12,687,800 (2023: 3,189,500) unit of warrants for total
consideration of RM1,681,871 (2023: RM506,306).
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to
the Company’s residual assets.
13. Warrant reserves
		 Group and Company
					2024 2023
					RM RM
Warrant reserves				8,181,894 8,594,985
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
13. Warrant reserves (Cont’d)
On 26 November 2019, the Company issued 238,797,710 free detachable warrants on the basis of one (1)
warrant for every two (2) rights shares subscribed, and 58,290,350 free detachable warrants on the basis of
one (1) warrant for every two (2) ordinary shares subscribed upon issuance of settlement shares.
		 Tenure Issue Expiry Exercise
			
(years) date date Price
Warrant B 2019/2024 		 5 28.11.2019 25.11.2024 0.10
The warrants may be exercised at any time during the tenure of the warrants of five (5) years including and
commencing from the issue date of the warrants and ending on the expiry date. Each warrant carries the
entitlement to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the Company at the exercise price of RM0.10 each
stated above and shall be satisfied fully in cash and shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the
respective Deed Pools.
Subject to the provision in the respective Deed Pools, the exercise price and the number of warrants held
by each warrant holder shall be adjusted by the Board of Directors of the Company in consultation with
the adviser and certification of the external auditors, in the event of alteration of the share capital of the
Company.
The fair value allocated to the warrants reserve is derived by adjusting the proceeds of the above issuance
to the fair value of the shares and warrants on a proportionate basis.
During the financial year, 12,687,800 (2023: 3,819,500) warrants were exercised as RM0.10 (2023: RM0.10)
each amounting to RM1,268,780 (2023: RM381,950). This resulted in the issuance of 12,687,800 (2023:
3,819,500) new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrants reserve of RM413,091 (2023: RM124,356) to share
capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised amounted to RM1,681,871 (2023: RM506,306).
The movement of the warrants during the financial year is as follows:-
		 Number of units
			 At 1.10.2023 Issued Exercised At 30.9.2024
Warrant B 2019/2024		 263,988,860 – (12,687,800) 251,301,060
		 Number of units
			
At 1.10.2022 Issued Exercised At 30.9.2023
Warrant B 2019/2024		 267,808,360 – (3,819,500) 263,988,860
14. Lease liabilities
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Non-current		6,793,540 7,584,078 6,137,440 6,927,978
Current		790,538 730,746 790,538 730,746
			7,584,078 8,314,824 6,927,978 7,658,724
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
14. Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities at the end of the reporting period:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Within 1 year		1,036,776 1,004,322 1,036,776 1,004,322
Between 1 - 5 years		 3,761,275 4,158,974 3,761,275 4,158,974
More than 5 years		4,571,269 5,210,345 3,510,769 4,149,845
			9,369,320 10,373,641 8,308,820 9,313,141
Less: Future finance charge		 (1,785,242) (2,058,817) (1,380,842) (1,654,417)
Present value of lease liabilities		 7,584,078 8,314,824 6,927,978 7,658,724
The Group and the Company lease various land and properties. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual
basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions.
15. Deferred tax liabilities
			 Group
					2024 2023
					
RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 7,677,080 7,694,758
Recognised in profit or loss				 (29,078) (17,678)
At end of the financial year				 7,648,002 7,677,080
The component of deferred tax liability arose as a result of taxable temporary difference from property, plant
and equipment.
16. Trade payables
The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group and the Company was 30 days (2023: 30 days).
Included in trade payables of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM3,566,395 and RM3,255,532
(2023: RM2,496,441 and RM1,526,063) due from companies in which a Director has interest.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
17. Other payables
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Non-trade payables		717,143 365,448 459,835 108,140
Accruals		430,329 413,858 377,765 364,429
Deposits		144,300 140,400 144,300 140,400
			
1,291,772 919,706 981,900 612,969
Included in non-trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM257,308 (2023: RM256,441) due to Directors
of the Group and of the subsidiary which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Included in non-trade payables of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM284 (2023: RM142)
due to a company in which a Director has interest which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable
on demand.
Included in deposit of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM144,300 (2023: RM140,400) due
to companies in which a Director has interest which is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
18. Contract liabilities
			 Group and Company
					2024 2023
					
RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 891,533 1,415,038
Addition				4,043,250 6,222,000
Recognised as revenue				 (4,506,447) (6,745,505)
At end of the financial year				 428,336 891,533
The contract liabilities refer to advances received from a customer which will be set off against future revenue
made with the Group and the Company.
Revenue expected to be recognised in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or
partially satisfied) at the reporting date:
			 Group and Company
					2024 2023
					
RM RM
Within 1 year				 428,336 891,533
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
19. Revenue
Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods less indirect tax, discounts and returns.
The Group’s and the Company’s revenue disaggregated by pattern of revenue recognition is as follows:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contracts with customer
Sale of flour and related products 41,623,237 51,610,614 41,623,237 51,610,614
Sales of chemical substance		 8,694,497 6,897,306 – –
Sales of wood chip
 
and bamboo chip		
382,755 – – –
			50,700,489 58,507,920 41,623,237 51,610,614
Timing of revenue recognition
At a point in time		 50,700,489 58,507,920 41,623,237 51,610,614
Geographical market
Malaysia		50,700,489 58,507,920 41,623,237 51,610,614
20. Finance cost/Finance income
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Finance cost
Interest expense of lease liabilities 		 273,575 299,227 273,575 299,227
Finance income
- bank interest		291,712 200,776 261,631 194,290
- fixed deposits with licensed banks 		 291,245 239,383 272,593 239,383
		582,957 440,159 534,224 433,673
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
21. Profit/(Loss) before tax
Profit/(Loss) before tax is determined after charging/(crediting) amongst others, the following items:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration
- statutory audit		
107,000 95,000 70,000 63,000
- other services		13,000 15,000 13,000 15,000
- underprovision in the
  previous financial year		 – 3,000 – 1,000
Depreciation of property,
 
plant and equipment		1,750,424 1,760,677 1,636,295 1,646,548
Gain on disposal of
 
other investment		 – (479,999) – (479,999)
Net addition/(reversal) of impairment
  losses on investment in subsidiaries		 – – 110,000 (123,998)
Provision of slow
 
moving inventories		 – 90,899 – 90,899
Gain on modification
  of lease contract		 – (140,821) – (140,821)
Realised gain on
 
foreign exchange		 – (1) – (1)
Short–term lease (a)		57,959 57,305 57,959 57,305
Rental income		 (577,200) (541,800) (577,200) (541,800)
Waiver of debts		 – (24,534) – –
(a) The Group and the Company lease office and equipments with contract terms of not more than one
year. These leases are short-term lease and low value assets leases. The Group and the Company have
elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases.
22. Tax income
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Tax income recognised
  in profit or loss
Current tax
Current financial year		 22,158 5,807 – –
Over provision in previous
  financial year		 (4,250) (135,000) – (135,000)
			 17,908 (129,193) – (135,000)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of
  temporary differences		 (27,278) (26,278) – –
(Over)/Under provision in
  previous financial year		 (1,800) 8,600 – –
			 (29,078) (17,678) – –
			 (11,170) (146,871) – (135,000)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
111
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
22. Tax income (CONT’D)
A reconciliation of income tax expenses applicable to profit/(loss) before tax at the statutory tax rate to
income tax expenses at the effective income tax of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Profit/(Loss) before tax 		 143,097 2,515,022 (1,181,460) 1,917,700
At Malaysian statutory
  tax rate of 24%
  (2023: 24%) 		 34,343 603,605 (283,550) 460,248
Expenses not deductible
 
for tax purposes		351,559 327,866 336,638 251,454
Income not subject to tax 		 (138,528) (154,662) (138,528) (184,422)
Movement of deferred tax assets
  not recognised		 (252,494) (797,280) 85,440 (527,280)
Over provision of tax
  expense in previous
  financial year		 (4,250) (135,000) – (135,000)
(Over)/Under provision
  of deferred tax in
  previous financial year		 (1,800) 8,600 – –
			 (11,170) (146,871) - (135,000)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Property, plant and equipment		 (10,705,000) (9,961,000) (10,705,000) (9,961,000)
Provision		50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Inventories		128,000 128,000 128,000 128,000
Unabsorbed business
 
losses		57,993,229 59,935,286 55,936,000 56,470,000
Unutilised capital
 
allowances		19,909,000 18,275,000 19,909,000 18,275,000
Unutilised reinvestment
 
allowances		9,973,000 9,973,000 9,973,000 9,973,000
			77,348,229 78,400,286 75,291,000 74,935,000
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
22. Tax income (Cont’d)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets (cont’d)
In accordance with the provision of the Finance Act 2018, the unabsorbed business losses are available for
utilisation in the next seven consecutive years from when it was incurred, for which, any excess at the end
of the seventh year, shall be disregarded. The other temporary differences do not expire under current tax
legislation.
The Finance Act 2021 stated that the time frame to carry forward unabsorbed business losses for year of
assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment be extended from seven to ten consecutive years of
assessment. The other temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items as they may not have sufficient
taxable profits to be used to offset.
The unutilised reinvestment allowances will be expiring within financial year 2025 under Malaysian tax
legislation.
The unutilised capital allowances do not expire under current tax legislation of Malaysia. Unabsorbed
business losses will expire at the following year of assessment (“YA”):
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
YA 2025		53,172,389 55,114,446 51,139,000 51,673,000
YA 2029		1,408,000 1,408,000 1,408,000 1,408,000
YA 2031		2,083,000 2,083,000 2,083,000 2,083,000
YA 2032		333,000 333,000 333,000 333,000
YA 2033		996,840 996,840 973,000 973,000
			57,993,229 59,935,286 55,936,000 56,470,000
Any amount not utilised upon expire period of the above year of assessment will be disregarded.
23. Staff costs
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Salaries and other
 
emoluments		869,088 866,412 811,887 808,903
Defined contribution plans		 100,258 102,934 92,899 95,502
Social security contributions		12,873 12,763 11,781 11,650
Directors’ fees		276,000 273,000 276,000 273,000
			1,258,219 1,255,109 1,192,567 1,189,055
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
113
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
23. Staff costs (Cont’d)
Included in staff costs is aggregate amount of remuneration received and receivable by the Directors of the
Company and of the subsidiaries during the financial year as below:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Directors
Salaries and other
 
emoluments		240,000 239,355 240,000 239,355
Defined contribution plans		33,600 33,504 33,600 33,504
Social security contributions		2,318 2,306 2,318 2,306
			275,918 275,165 275,918 275,165
Non-executive Directors
Directors’ fees		276,000 273,000 276,000 273,000
			551,918 548,165 551,918 548,165
24. Earnings per share
(a) Basic earnings per share
The basic earnings per share are calculated based on the consolidated income for the financial year
attributable to owners of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue
during the financial year as follows:
			 Group
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Profit attributable to
  owners of the parent				 154,267 2,661,893
Weighted average number of
  ordinary shares at 30 September				 1,024,942,746 1,019,311,071
Basic earnings per ordinary shares (in sen)			 0.02 0.26
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
24. Earnings per share (Cont’d)
(b) Diluted earnings per share
Diluted per share are calculated based on the consolidated income for the financial year attributable to
owners of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue have been adjusted
for the dilutive effects of all potential ordinary shares during the financial year as follows:
			 Group
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Profit attributable to
  owners of the parent				 154,267 2,661,893
Weighted average number
  of ordinary shares at 30 September			 1,164,092,913 1,125,795,225
Diluted earnings per ordinary shares (in sen)			 0.01 0.24
25. Related party disclosures
(a) Identifying related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and of
the Company if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or joint control
the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company
either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel comprise the Directors and management
personnel of the Group and of the Company, having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company directly or indirectly.
(b) Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. In addition to the related party balances disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Transactions with related parties
- Purchase		 (38,245,495) (43,762,633) (38,245,495) (43,762,633)
- Plantation cost charged by		 310,863 970,378 - -
- Rental charged to		577,200 541,800 577,200 541,800
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
115
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
25. Related party disclosures (Cont’d)
(c) Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors are disclosed in Note 23 to the financial statements. The emoluments
of key management personnel are as follows:
			 Group and Company
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Salaries and other emoluments				 120,000 119,755
Defined contribution plans				 19,872 14,105
Social security contributions				 2,496 2,100
					142,368 135,960
26. Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below show the details of changes in the liabilities of the Group and of the Company arising from
financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes:
				 At 		 At
				1.10.2023 Repayment 30.9.2024
				 RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities			 8,314,824 (730,746) 7,584,078
Company			
Lease liabilities			 7,658,724 (730,746) 6,927,978
		 At 				
At
		 1.10.2022 Drawdown Repayment Modification 30.9.2023
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 8,692,372 3,089,425 (687,775) (2,779,198) 8,314,824
Company
Lease liabilities 8,036,272 3,089,425 (687,775) (2,779,198) 7,658,724
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
116
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
27. Segment information
(a) Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two major business units based on their
products and services, which comprises the following:
Business segments Business activities
Flour milling and trading Flour milling and trading of flour, starch and chemical
Plantation Investment holding and plantation activities
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making
decisions about resources allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated
based on operating profit or loss which, in certain respects as explained in the table below, is measured
differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions between segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects
of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The measurement basis and
classification are consistent with those adopted in the previous financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
117
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
27. Segment information (cONT’D)
(a) Business segments (cont’d)
Group		
Flour milling			
Adjustments
			and		
Total and
		 trading Plantation segments elimination Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM
2024
Revenue
External customers		50,317,734 382,755 50,700,489 – 50,700,489
Results
Profit from operations		 1,710,894 (126,755) 1,584,139 – 1,584,139
Finance income		582,800 157 582,957 – 582,957
Finance costs		(273,575) – (273,575) – (273,575)
Depreciation		 (1,636,295) (14,637) (1,650,932) (99,492) (1,750,424)
Taxation		(13,215) 507 (12,708) 23,878 11,170
			 370,609 (140,728) 229,881 (75,614) 154,267
Assets
Segment assets		93,676,708 49,017,868 142,694,576 (41,311,101) 101,383,475
Additional to non-current assets
  other than deferred tax assets C – 688,369 688,369 – 688,369
Tax recoverable		200,748 1,416 202,164 – 202,164
			93,877,456 49,707,653 143,585,109 (41,311,101) 102,274,008
Liabilities
Segment liabilities		12,503,252 41,330,867 53,834,119 (39,751,222) 14,082,897
Deferred tax liabilities		 – 1,000 1,000 7,647,002 7,648,002
Tax payable		13,215 10,514 23,729 – 23,729
			12,516,467 41,342,381 53,858,848 (32,104,220) 21,754,628
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
27. Segment information (cONT’D)
(a) Business segments (cont’d)
Group (cont’d)		 Flour milling			 Adjustments
			and		
Total and
		 trading Plantation segments elimination Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Revenue
External customers		58,507,920 – 58,507,920 – 58,507,920
Results
Profit from operations		 3,894,339 (314,027) 3,580,312 – 3,580,312
Finance income		440,159 – 440,159 – 440,159
Finance costs		(299,227) – (299,227) – (299,227)
Depreciation		 (1,646,548) (14,637) (1,661,185) (99,492) (1,760,677)
Other non-cash items B 653,919 24,534 678,453 (123,998) 554,455
Taxation		135,000 (12,007) 122,993 23,878 146,871
			 3,177,642 (316,137) 2,861,505 (199,612) 2,661,893
Assets
Segment assets		 88,448,524 34,154,155 122,602,679 (26,306,410) 96,296,269
Additional to non-current assets
other than deferred tax assets C 3,089,425 996,913 4,086,338 – 4,086,338
Tax recoverable		183,556 1,416 184,972 – 184,972
			91,721,505 35,152,484 126,873,989 (26,306,410) 100,567,579
Liabilities						
Segment liabilities		11,889,905 26,634,463 38,524,368 (24,736,023) 13,788,345
Deferred tax liabilities		 – 6,200 6,200 7,670,880 7,677,080
Tax payable		 – 5,821 5,821 – 5,821
			11,889,905 26,646,484 38,536,389 (17,065,143) 21,471,246
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
119
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
27. Segment information (cONT’D)
(a) Business segments (cont’d)
Nature of adjustments and eliminations to arrive at amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements
A. Profit from inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
B. Other material non-cash expenses/(income) consist of the following items as presented in the
respective notes to the financial statements:
		 Group
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Gain on disposal of other investment			 – (479,999)
Gain on modification of lease contract			 – (140,821)
Provision for slow moving inventories			 – 90,899
Waiver of debts				 – (24,534)
					
– (554,455)
C. Additions to non-current assets consists of:
		 Group
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Property, plant and equipment			 688,369 4,086,338
(b) Geographical information
Non-current assets information and revenue by geographical segment is not presented as the Group’s
activities are conducted principally in Malaysia.
(c) Information about major customer
The following are major customer with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s and of the
Company’s total revenue:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Flour miling and trading
Customer A		18,884,739 26,853,336 18,884,739 26,853,336
Customer B		8,694,497 6,897,306 – –
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
120
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments
(a) Classification of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis at amortised cost or FVTPL.
The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position by
the class of financial instruments to which they are assigned, and therefore by the measurement basis:
		 Group Company
			2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
At FVTPL
Financial asset
Other investment		1 1 1 1
At amortised cost
Financial assets
Trade receivables		6,410,923 6,356,863 5,849,945 4,945,217
Other receivables 		 2,231,216 2,248,660 332,112 349,556
Amount due from
 
subsidiaries		 – – 31,022,417 23,451,676
Fixed deposits with
 
licensed banks		12,403,590 10,112,345 10,384,938 10,112,345
Cash and bank
 
balances		11,145,238 16,810,259 9,104,068 14,621,740
			32,190,967 35,528,127 56,693,480 53,480,534
			32,190,968 35,528,128 56,693,481 53,480,535
At amortised cost
Financial liabilities
Trade payables		4,778,711 3,662,282 3,255,532 1,526,063
Other payables		
1,291,772 919,706 981,900 612,969
Lease liabilities		7,584,078 8,314,824 6,927,978 7,658,724
			13,654,561 12,896,812 11,165,410 9,797,756
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s and the Company’s financial risk management policy is to ensure that adequate financial
resources are available for the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s operation whilst
managing their credit, liquidity and market risks. The Group and the Company operate within clearly
defined guidelines that are approved by the Board and the Group’s and the Company’s policy is not to
engage in speculative transaction.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
121
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or counterparty
to a financial instrument fails to meet their contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit
risk arises principally from its trade and other receivables, fixed deposits with licensed banks and
cash and bank balances. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from trade and
other receivables, amount due from subsidiaries, fixed deposits with licensed banks and cash
and bank balances. There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
The Group and the Company have adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy
counterparties. Management has a credit policy in place to control credit risk by dealing with
creditworthy counterparties and fixed deposits with banks with good credit rating. The exposure
to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and action will be taken for long outstanding
debts.
The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to subsidiaries. The Company monitors
on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayment made by the subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether any of the trade receivables
and amount due from subsidiaries are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full)
when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and
the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, receivables
that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded on the statements of financial position at
the end of the reporting period represent the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure
to credit risk except for financial guarantees provided to banks for banking facilities granted to
certain subsidiaries.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
As at the end of the financial year, the Group and the Company have 1 and 1 (2023: 1 and 3) major
customers respectively and accounted for approximately 31% and 33% (2023: 22% and 32%) of
the Group’s and of the Company’s trade receivables outstanding.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
122
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group or the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
to financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s funding requirements and liquidity risk are managed with the
objective of meeting business obligations on a timely basis. The Group and the Company finance
their liquidity through internally generated cash flows and minimises liquidity risk by keeping
committed credit lines available.
The following table analyses the remaining contractual maturity for financial liabilities. The tables
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the
earliest date on which the Group and the Company can be required to pay:
		 On demand			Total Total
		 within 1 to 5 More than contractual carrying
		 1 year years 5 years cash flows amounts
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2024
Non-derivative
 financial
  liabilities
Trade payables 4,778,711 – – 4,778,711 4,778,711
Other payables 1,291,772 – – 1,291,772 1,291,772
Lease liabilities 1,036,776 3,761,275 4,571,269 9,369,320 7,584,078
		 7,107,259 3,761,275 4,571,269 15,439,803 13,654,561
Financial
 
guarantee* 77,200 – – 77,200 –
2023
Non-derivative
  financial
  liabilities
Trade payables 3,662,282 – – 3,662,282 3,662,282
Other payables 919,706 – – 919,706 919,706
Lease liabilities 1,004,322 4,158,974 5,210,345 10,373,641 8,314,824
		 5,586,310 4,158,974 5,210,345 14,955,629 12,896,812
Financial
 
guarantee* 100,000 – – 100,000 –
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
123
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk (cont’d)
The following table analyses the remaining contractual maturity for financial liabilities. The tables
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the
earliest date on which the Group and the Company can be required to pay: (cont’d)
		 On demand			Total Total
		 within 1 to 5 More than contractual carrying
		 1 year years 5 years cash flows amounts
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Company
2024
Non-derivative
  financial
  liabilities 					
Trade payables 3,255,532 – – 3,255,532 3,255,532
Other payables 981,900 – – 981,900 981,900
Lease liabilities 1,036,776 3,761,275 3,510,769 8,308,820 6,927,978
		 5,274,208 3,761,275 3,510,769 12,546,252 11,165,410
Financial
 
guarantee* 77,200 – – 77,200 –
2023
Non-derivative
  financial
  liabilities
Trade payables 1,526,063 – – 1,526,063 1,526,063
Other payables 612,969 – – 612,969 612,969
Lease liabilities 1,004,322 4,158,974 4,149,845 9,313,141 7,658,724
		 3,143,354 4,158,974 4,149,845 11,452,173 9,797,756
Financial
 
guarantee* 100,000 – – 100,000 –
* Based on the maximum amount that could be called for under the financial guarantee.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
124
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
(iii) Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s fixed rate deposits placed with licensed banks are exposed to a
risk of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates.
The Group and the Company manage their interest rate risk of its deposits with licensed financial
institutions by placing them at the most competitive interest rates obtainable, which yield better
returns than cash at bank and maintaining a prudent mix of short and long-term deposits.
The interest rate profit of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
		 Group Company
			 2024 2023 2024 2023
			RM RM RM RM
Fixed rate instrument
Financial asset
Fixed deposits with
 
licensed banks		12,403,590 10,112,345 10,384,938 10,112,345
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
Fair value of sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at
fair value through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting
period would not affect profit or loss.
(c) Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and the Company which are
maturing within the next 12 months approximated their carrying amounts due to the relatively short-
term maturity of the financial instruments or repayable on demand terms.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
125
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
28. Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(c) Fair value of financial instruments (cont’d)
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value
for which fair value is disclosed, together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the
statements of financial position.
				 Fair value
				 of financial
				instruments
				 carried at fair Total fair Carrying
				 value Level 3 value amount
				RM RM RM
Group and Company
2024
Financial asset
Other investment:
- unquoted investment			1 1 1
2023
Financial asset
Other investment:
- unquoted investment			1 1 1
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables, payables, cash and cash equivalents approximate
their fair value due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments and insignificant
impact of discounting.
(i) Policy on transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer. There were no transfers between
levels during current and previous financial year.
(ii) Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities.
(iii) Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset of liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from
prices).
Non-derivative financial instruments
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value
of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of
the reporting period.
(iv) Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value for the financial assets and liabilities are estimated using unobservable inputs.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
126
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont'd)
29. Financial guarantee
		 Group and Company
					2024 2023
					RM RM
Secured:
Financial guarantee for the
  purpose of electrical supply				 77,200 100,000
30. Capital management
The Group’s and of the Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s and the
Company ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholder and benefits for
other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may adjust the amount of
dividends paid to shareholder, return capital to shareholder, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
There was no change in the Group’s and the Company’s approach to capital management during the financial
year.
The Group and the Company are not subject to any external imposed capital requirements.
31. Date of authorisation for issue
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with
a resolution of the Directors on 2 January 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
127
Total number of Issued Shares : 1,283,310,774 Ordinary Shares
Class of Equity Securities : Ordinary Shares (“shares”)
Voting Right : One vote for every share held
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE OF SHAREHOLDERS
		 No. of 		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings		 Holders % Shares %
Less than 100		 92 2.40 1,985 *
100 – 1,000		 903 23.53 759,683 0.06
1,001 – 10,000		 1,469 38.28 7,139,900 0.56
10,001 – 100,000		 975 25.40 39,522,016 3.08
100,001 – less than 5% of issued shares		 395 10.29 592,981,190 46.21
5% and above of issued shares		 4 0.10 642,906,000 50.10
Total		 3,838 100.00 1,283,310,774 100.00
* negligible
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders)
No. of Ordinary Shares
		 Direct 		 Indirect
Name of Substantial Shareholders		 Interest % Interest %
Lotus Essential Sdn. Bhd.		 300,000,000 23.38 – –
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan		 220,740,000 17.20 300,000,000 (a) 23.38
Yau Ming Teck		 70,000,000 5.45 – –
CWL Ventures Sdn. Bhd.		 82,166,000 6.40 – –
Chia Weng Lock		 12,330,000 0.96 82,166,000 (b) 6.40
Note: -
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Lotus Essential Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies
Act 2016.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in CWL Ventures Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies
Act 2016.
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 31 December 2024
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
128
DIRECTOR’S INTEREST AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings)
No. of Ordinary Shares
		 Direct 		 Indirect
Name of Directors		 Interest % Interest %
Datuk Wong Sak Kuan 		 220,740,000 17.20 300,000,000 (a) 23.38
Yau Ming Teck		 70,000,000 5.45 – –
Lee Wai Fun		 51,527,000 4.02 – –
Chia Weng Lock		 12,330,000 0.96 82,166,000 (b) 6.40
Mohd Rasli Bin Muda		 470,000 0.04 – –
Low Koon Min		 – – – –
Yap Ee Seong		 – – – –
Wong Yau Min		 – – – –
Lim Lian Chee		 431,000 0.03 – –
Note: -
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Lotus Essential Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies
Act 2016.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in CWL Ventures Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies
Act 2016.
30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
					
No. of
No. Name Shares Held %
1. LOTUS ESSENTIAL SDN BHD 300,000,000 23.38
2. DATUK WONG SAK KUAN 190,740,000 14.86
3. CWL VENTURES SDN. BHD. 82,166,000 6.40
4. YAU MING TECK 70,000,000 5.45
5. LIM CHIUN CHEONG 56,969,580 4.44
6. LEE WAI FUN 51,527,000 4.02
7. WONG PENG KHOON 21,790,880 1.70
8. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WONG
SAK KUAN (7000571)				 20,000,000 1.56
9. TOH YAN TAI 15,808,100 1.23
10. CHONG FONG TAI 14,620,000 1.14
11. BINTANG SARI SDN BHD 13,390,000 1.04
12. WEE KA SENG 12,888,000 1.00
13. WONG ONN ONN 12,823,950 1.00
14. YAU CHI HANG 12,582,030 0.98
15. CHIA WENG LOCK 12,330,000 0.96
16. TOH WAH CHONG 11,845,700 0.92
17. WONG WAI LIK 11,000,000 0.86
18. WONG MING MING 10,763,900 0.84
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
129
30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024 (Cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
					
No. of
No. Name Shares Held %
19. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
- PLEDGED SECURITIES FOR WONG SAK KUAN			 10,000,000 0.78
20. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KUAN TECK		 9,683,500 0.75
21. TEO SOON KEE 9,512,800 0.74
22. LEE CHENG CHENG 9,481,500 0.74
23. CHAN PECK YIN 8,805,580 0.69
24. H.S. MAH HEART & MEDICAL CENTRE SDN. BHD. 8,605,000 0.67
25. SETARA MENTARI SDN BHD 8,480,000 0.66
26. TENG CHOONG HOONG 7,346,000 0.57
27. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
- PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HOO YEEK FOO		 7,022,100 0.55
28. AUGUSTINE KOK HWAI NAM 7,000,000 0.55
29. CHENG SOO SHING 6,570,000 0.51
30. CHUI MEE CHUEN 6,250,000 0.49
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
130
A summary of LKFM-owned properties is set out as below:
Location Tenure
Date of
Revaluation/
Date of
Acquisition Area Description
Age of
Building
Net
Carrying
Amount
RM’000
Pajakan Negeri
550, Lot 1863 Mukim
Sungai Karang,
Kuantan, Pahang.
21 years and 3.5
months lease
expiring on 30
December 2027
15 September
1985
25,425 sq.
metres
Office and
Factory
39 years
and
32 years
3,714
Pajakan Negeri
550, Lot 1863 Mukim
Sungai Karang,
Kuantan, Pahang.
17 years and 7
months lease
expiring on 30
December 2027
1 June 2010 4,253 sq.
metres
Wheat silos 22 years 173
List of
Properties Held By the Group
as at 30 September 2024
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
131
NOTICE of
Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fortieth Annual General Meeting (“40th AGM” or ”Meeting”) of LOTUS KFM
BERHAD (“LOTUS” or “the Company”) will be held at Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden Golf Club,
IOI Resort City, 62502 Putrajaya on Wednesday, 19 March 2025 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, to
transact the following businesses:-
A G E N D A
As Ordinary Business:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30
September 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
thereon.
PLEASE REFER TO
EXPLANATORY NOTE 1
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM300,000
for the period commencing from the date immediately after the 40th AGM
until the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause
85 of the Company’s Constitution:
i. Mr. Yau Ming Teck ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
ii. Ms. Lee Wai Fun ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
iii. Mr. Wong Yau Min ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
4. To re-appoint TGS TW PLT as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion
of the next AGM of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 5
As Special Business:
To consider and if thought fit, pass with or without any modifications, the following
resolutions:
5. GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE AND ALLOT
SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES
ACT 2016 (“ACT”)
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 6
“THAT subject always to the Constitution of the Company, the Act, the Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals of the relevant
governmental/ regulatory authorities, where required, the Directors of the
Company, be and are hereby authorised and empowered pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, to issue and allot new ordinary shares in the
Company (“Shares”) to such persons, at any time, and upon such terms and
conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute
discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be
issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued
shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at any point of
time (“Mandate”) AND the Directors be and also empowered to obtain the
approval for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued
on Bursa Securities AND such authority shall continue in force until the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held
next after the approval was given or at the expiry of the period within which
the next AGM is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever
is the earlier.
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
132
AND THAT the new Shares to be issued pursuant to the Mandate, shall,
upon issuance and allotment, rank pari passu in all respects with the existing
shares of the Company, save and except that they shall not be entitled to
any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that
which may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such
new Shares.”
6. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE AND/
OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’
MANDATE”)
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 7
“THAT authority be and is hereby given in line with Paragraph 10.09 of Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities, for the Company and/or its subsidiaries
(“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent related party transactions with
the related party(ies) as set out in Section 2.8 of the Circular to Shareholders
in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate dated 24
January 2025 which are necessary for the day-to-day operations of the
Group within the ordinary course of business of the Group, made on an arm’s
length basis and on normal commercial terms which are those generally
available to the public and are not detrimental to the minority shareholders
of the Company;
AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of
this resolution until:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general
meeting at which the ordinary resolution for the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate was passed, at which time it shall lapse, unless
the authority is renewed by a resolution passed at the next AGM; or
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after that date
it is required by law to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act
(but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to
Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
of the Company at a general meeting,
whichever is earlier.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby
authorised to do all acts, deeds and things as they may be deemed fit,
necessary, expedient and/or appropriate in order to implement the Proposed
Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate with full power to assent to all or any
conditions, variations, modifications and/or amendments in any manner as
may be required by any relevant authorities or otherwise and to deal with all
matters relating thereto and to take all such steps and to execute, sign and
deliver for and on behalf of the Company all such documents, agreements,
arrangements and/or undertakings, with any party or parties and to carry out
any other matters as may be required to implement, finalise and complete,
and give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate in the
best interest of the Company.”
NOTICE of Annual General Meeting
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
133
7. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
By order of the Board
TEA SOR HUA (MACS 01324) (SSM PC NO.: 201908001272)
LIM KEE SAN (MAICSA 7067348) (SSM PC NO.: 202308000295)
Company Secretaries
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
24 January 2025
Notes:
i. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than one (1)
proxy to attend and vote at the Meeting. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member
shall specify the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
ii. A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A member may appoint any person to be his proxy.
A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak and
vote at the Meeting.
iii. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly
authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer
or attorney duly authorised.
iv. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint at least one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds
with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
v. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to
the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account
it holds. The appointment of multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings
represented by each proxy is specified.
vi. To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in
the following manners and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the
time for holding the Meeting or adjournment meeting:-
(a) In Hardcopy Form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn.
Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.
(b) By Electronic Means
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@
sshsb.com.my.
vii. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 63 of the Company’s Constitution to
issue a General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 11 March 2025. Only members whose name appears in the
Record of Depositors as at 11 March 2025 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
viii. All the resolutions set out in this Notice of the Meeting will be put to vote by poll.
ix. The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
x. Kindly check Bursa Securities’ website and the Company’s website at https://www.kfmb.com.my/ for the
latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
NOTICE of Annual General Meeting
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
134
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO ORDINARY AND SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2024
This Agenda is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require the
formal approval of members for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, the Agenda is not be put forward
for voting.
2. Item 2 of the Agenda – Directors’ Fees and Benefits
The estimated Directors’ fees and benefits are calculated based on the current Board size and the number
of scheduled Board and Committee meetings to be held. This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’
fees and benefits for the period commencing from the date immediately after this 40th AGM until the date
of the next AGM to be held in the year 2026. In the event the proposed amount is insufficient due to more
meetings or an enlarged Board size, approval will be sought at the next AGM for the shortfall.
3. Items 3 of the Agenda – Re-election of Directors
Clause 85 of the Company’s Constitution provides that one-third (1/3) of the Directors of the Company for
the time being or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third
(1/3) shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election provided always that all Directors shall retire from
office at least once every three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. Hence, three (3) out of nine (9)
Directors of the Company are to retire in accordance with Clause 85 of the Company’s Constitution.
Following thereto, Mr. Yau Ming Teck, Ms. Lee Wai Fun and Mr. Wong Yau Min will retire by rotation pursuant
to Clause 85 of the Company’s Constitution (collectively referred to as “the Retiring Directors”). The Retiring
Directors being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 40th AGM.
The Board has endorsed the Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s recommendation to seek
shareholders’ approval to re-elect the said Retiring Directors as they possess the required skill sets to
facilitate and contribute to the Board’s effectiveness and value.
The Retiring Directors had abstained from all deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for
re-election at the Board meeting.
The details and profiles of the Retiring Directors are provided in the Directors’ Profile contained in the
Company’s Annual Report 2024.
4. Item 5 of the Agenda - General Authority for the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act
The Ordinary Resolution 6 proposed under item 5 of the Agenda, is to seek a general mandate for issuance
and allotment of shares by the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. This Ordinary Resolution,
if passed, is to empower the Directors to issue and allot new shares in the Company up to an amount not
exceeding in total ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for such
purposes as the Directors consider would be in the interest of the Company. This would avoid any delay and
cost involved in convening a general meeting to approve the issuance and allotment of such new shares.
This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion
of the next AGM or the expiration of the period within which the next AGM is required by law to be held,
whichever is earlier.
This general mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for issuance and allotment of shares for any
possible fund-raising activities, including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of
funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s).
NOTICE of Annual General Meeting
(cont'd)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
135
4. Item 5 of the Agenda - General Authority for the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act (cont’d)
The Company had at its Thirty-Ninth AGM held on 21 March 2024 (“39th AGM”), obtained a general mandate
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act from its shareholders, to empower the Directors to issue and allot
shares in the Company to such persons, at any time, and upon such terms and conditions and for such
purposes, as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of
shares to be issued does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company (excluding
treasury shares) at any point of time (“General Mandate”). This General Mandate will expire at the conclusion
of the 40th AGM.
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued and allotted pursuant to the General
Mandate granted to the Directors at the 39th AGM which will lapse at the conclusion of the 40th AGM.
5. Item 6 of the Agenda – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate
The Ordinary Resolution 7 proposed under Item 6 of the Agenda, if passed, will renew the authority given
to the Company and/or its subsidiaries a mandate to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue and/or trading nature pursuant to Paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Securities. The mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at
the next AGM of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 24 January 2025 for further information.
NOTICE of Annual General Meeting
(cont'd)
LOTUS KFM BERHAD  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2024
136
Date Time Venue
Wednesday, 19 March 2025 10 a.m. Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden
Golf Club, IOI Resort City, 62502 Putrajaya
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
1. A member who is entitled to participate and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint more than one (1) proxy
to participate and vote in his/her stead. If you are not able to participate in the 40th AGM, you are encouraged
to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Proxy Form.
2.		
The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hardcopy form or by electronic means in the following manner
and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof:-
(i) In hardcopy form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn.
Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic form
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@
sshsb.com.my.
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
4. If you wish to participate in the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any proxy form for the Meeting. You
will not be allowed to participate in the 40th AGM together with the proxy(ies) appointed by you.
5. If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the Meeting and subsequently decide to personally participate
in the Meeting, please write in to lily@sshsb.com.my to revoke the earlier appointment of your proxy(ies) at
least forty-eight (48) hours before the commencement of the Meeting. Upon revocation, your proxy(ies) will
not be allowed to participate in the 40th AGM. In such event, kindly advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.
PROCEDURES OF THE MEETING
In the interest of public health including the well-being of our members, members must cooperate with the following
precautionary measures put in place by our Company should our members or proxies wish to attend the Meeting
in person. Your safety and health are our Company’s top priority.
(a) A member is encouraged to register ahead of the Meeting to allow the Company to make the necessary
arrangements in relation to the Meeting, i.e. infrastructure, logistics and meeting venue(s) to accommodate
the meeting participants by providing the below details by email to connie.ng@lotuskfm.com.my:-
i) Full name;
ii) Identity Card or Passport Number;
iii) Contact number (optional – for better co-ordination); and
iv) CDS account number
The date of Record of Depositors for the 40th AGM is 11 March 2025. As such, only members whose names
appear in the Company’s Record of Depositors as at 11 March 2025 shall be entitled to attend the 40th AGM
and participate, speak and vote thereat.
ADMINISTRATIVE
NOTES
FOR THE FORTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF LOTUS KFM BERHAD (“LOTUS” OR
“COMPANY”) (“40TH AGM” OR “MEETING”)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 |  LOTUS KFM BERHAD
137
PROCEDURES OF THE MEETING (CONT’d)
(b) Members are encouraged to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting (or any other person) to act as proxy
to attend and vote at the Meeting on their behalf by submitting the proxy form with predetermined voting
instructions.
(c) NO door gift will be provided to the members/proxies at the Meeting venue and NO refreshment will be
served at the Meeting venue.
(d) The Company will closely monitor the situation and reserve the right to take further measures or short-notice
arrangements as and when appropriate in order to minimise any risk to the Meeting.
(e) Recording/Photography
By participating in this 40th AGM, you agree that no part of the Meeting proceedings may be recorded,
photographed, stored in any retrieval systems, reproduced, transmitted or uploaded in any form, platform
or social media or by any means whether it is mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording or otherwise
without the prior written consent of the Company. The Company reserves the right to take appropriate legal
actions against anyone who violates this rule.
Shareholders are advised to check Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s website and Company’s website at
http://www.kfmb.com.my/ for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
ENQUIRY
If you have any enquiry regarding the 40th AGM, please contact the following persons during office hours from 9.00
a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Monday to Friday (except public holidays) prior to the Meeting: -
For Registration matters: For Proxy Form matters:
Name: Ms. Connie
Telephone No.: +603-8959 4883
Email: connie.ng@lotuskfm.com.my
Name: Ms. Lily
Telephone No.: +603 2084 9000
Email: lily@sshsb.com.my
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES
(cont'd)
This page has been intentionally left blank
LOTUS KFM BERHAD
198401007083 (119598-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We * _________________________________________ NRIC/Passport/Registration No.*________________________
(full name in capital letters)
of__________________________________________________________________________________________________
(full address)
with email address___________________________________ mobile phone no _______________________________
being a member/members* of LOTUS KFM BERHAD (“the Company”) hereby appoint(s):-
Full Name (in capital letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Full Address (in capital letters)
Contact No.:
Email Address:
and*
Full Name (in capital letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Full Address (in capital letters)
Contact No.:
Email Address:
or failing him/her*, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our* proxy/proxies* to vote for me/us* on my/our*
behalf at the Fortieth Annual General Meeting (“40th AGM” or “Meeting”) of the Company to be held at
Eugenia Ballroom (Ground Floor), Palm Garden Golf Club, IOI Resort City, 62502 Putrajaya on Wednesday,
19 March 2025 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate spaces how you wish your votes to be cast. If no specific direction
as to vote is given, the Proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his/her* discretion.
No. Ordinary Resolutions For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM300,000 for the
period commencing from the date immediately after the 40th AGM until the next
AGM of the Company.
2. To re-elect Mr. Yau Ming Teck as Director.
3. To re-elect Ms. Lee Wai Fun as Director.
4. To re-elect Mr. Wong Yau Min as Director.
5. To re-appoint TGS TW PLT as Auditors of the Company.
6. To approve the general authority for Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
7. To approve the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue and/or Trading Nature.
* delete whichever is not applicable
Dated this_____________day of____________ 2025 _______________________________________
Signature/ Common Seal of Member(s)
✄
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
NOTES:
i. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote
at the Meeting. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of his shareholdings
to be represented by each proxy.
ii. A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A member may appoint any person to be his proxy. A proxy appointed
to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak and vote at the Meeting.
iii. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing
or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
iv. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act
1991, it may appoint at least one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company
standing to the credit of the said securities account.
v. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of multiple proxies shall not be
valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
The Share Registrar
LOTUS KFM BERHAD
198401007083 (119598-P)
c/o Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
1st Fold Here
2nd Fold Here
AFFIX
STAMP
vi. To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manners
and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time for holding the Meeting or adjournment
meeting:-
(a) In Hardcopy Form
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara
Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan,
Malaysia.
(b) By Electronic Means
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via fax to +603-2094 9940 or by email to eservices@sshsb.com.my.
vii. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 63 of the Company’s Constitution to issue a General Meeting Record of
Depositors as at 11 March 2025. Only members whose name appears in the Record of Depositors as at 11 March 2025 shall be
entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
viii. All the resolutions set out in this Notice of the Meeting will be put to vote by poll.
ix. The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
x. Kindly check Bursa Securities’ website and the Company’s website at https://www.kfmb.com.my/ for the latest updates on the
status of the Meeting.
