2 • Notice of
Annual General Meeting
5 • Statement Accompanying
Notice of Annual General
Meeting
5 • Administrative Notes –
Covid-19 Outbreak Safety
Measures
6 • Corporate Information
7 • Profile of the Board of
Directors
10 • Audit Committee Report
13 • Overview Statement of
Corporate Governance
19 • Statement of Risk
Management and
Internal Controls
21 • Directors’ Responsibility
Statement and Other
Information
22 • Sustainability Report
29 • Statement of Management
Discussion & Analysis
34 • Directors’ Report
39 • Statements of Financial
Position
40 • Statements of
Comprehensive Income
41 • Statements of Changes
in Equity
42 • Statements of Cash Flows
45 • Notes to the Financial
Statements
111 • Statement by Directors /
Statutory Declaration
112 • Independent Auditors’
Report
116 • Analysis of Shareholdings
118 • List of Group Properties
• Form of Proxy
Table of
CONTENTS
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at * The Katerina
Hotel, Opal Room, Level M, No. 8 Jalan Zabedah, 83000 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia on Wednesday,
2 June 2021 at 11.30 a.m.
AGENDA RESOLUTION NO.
1. To present the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2020 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve payment of an increased amount of Directors’ fee of RM130,000.00 for
the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
3. To approve an amount of RM10,000.00 per month as allowance to the Non-
Executive Chairman from the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting to the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution:-
4.1 YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee
4.2 Encik Kamal Bin Abd Karim
4.3 Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
4.4 Madam Fong May Khuan
5. To appoint Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT as Auditors of the Company for
the financial year ending 31 December 2021 and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
6. To transact any other business appropriate to an Annual General Meeting, for which
due notice shall have been given in accordance with the Company’s Constitution
and/or the Companies Act, 2016.
7. As SPECIAL BUSINESS, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution:-
ORDINARY RESOLUTION - AUTHORITY TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES IN GENERAL
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
“That, subject to the Companies Act, 2016 and approvals from the relevant
governmental or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016 to allot and issue
shares in the Company from time to time upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may in their discretion deem fit provided that the
aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the issued shares of the Company for the time being and that such authority
shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of
the Company.”
–
Ordinary
Resolution 1
Ordinary
Resolution 2
Ordinary
Resolution 3
Ordinary
Resolution 4
Ordinary
Resolution 5
Ordinary
Resolution 6
Ordinary
Resolution 7
–
Ordinary
Resolution 8
By Order of the Board
JESSICA CHIN TENG LI
(MAICSA 7003181) (SSM PC No.: 202008002790)
Company Secretary
Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia
28 April 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 3
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Continued)
NOTES:
Entitlement to Attend and Proxy
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint at least 1 proxy to attend and vote
instead of him/her. Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 12,
Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia, not less
than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting.
For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company shall be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 57(B) of the Company’s Constitution
and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, to issue a Record of Depositors as
at 24 May 2021. Only a depositor whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2021 shall be
entitled to attend the Meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on his/her behalf.
Pre-Registration to Attend
1. Members are required to register ahead of the Meeting to allow the Company to make the necessary
arrangements in relation to the Meeting i.e. infrastructure, logistics and meeting venue(s) to accommodate
the Meeting participants.
2. Please do read and follow the following procedures to pre-register your physical attendance at the Meeting
via the TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online:
• Login in to TIIH Online website with your user name (i.e. e-mail address) and password under the
“e-Services”. If you have not registered as a user of TIIH Online, please refer to the tutorial guide posted
on the homepage for assistance to sign up.
• Select the corporate event: “(REGISTRATION) HWATAI 46th AGM”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select “Register for Physical Attendance at Meeting Venue”.
• Review your registration and proceed to register.
• System will send an e-mail to notify that your registration for Physical Attendance at Meeting Venue is
received and will be verified.
• After verification of your registration against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, the system will
send you an e-mail after 31 May 2021 to approve or reject your registration to attend physically at the
Meeting Venue.
3. If you have any enquiry prior to the Meeting, you may contact the Share Registrar at:
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn Bhd
Registration No. 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Telephone Number
General Line 603-2783 9299
En Zulhafri Bin Abdul
Rahman
603-2783 9289
En Ahmad Syafiq 603-2783 9248
Fax Number 603-2783 9222
Email Is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
4
Audited Financial Statements (Agenda No. 1)
Item 1 of the Agenda is meant for discussion only, as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016
requires the Directors to only lay before the Company at its annual general meeting its annual financial statements
and thus, does not require a formal approval of the members for the audited financial statements. Hence, this item
of the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
Directors’ Fee (Agenda No. 2)
An increment in Directors’ Fee by RM40,000.00 from RM90,000.00 in the previous financial year to RM130,000.00
for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 is proposed for members’ approval.
Based on the annual review of Directors’ remuneration conducted by the Remuneration Committee, the Board
had, at the Directors’ Meeting held on 23 February 2021, agreed to propose for members’ approval an increase in
Directors’ Fee for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 in the following manner:-
Position in the
Board
Fees per
Director for
Financial Year
2019 (RM)
A
Proposed
Increment
(RM)
B
Proposed Fee
per Director for
Financial Year
2020 (RM)
C = A + B
No. of
Directors
D
Proposed
Total Fee for
Financial Year
2020 (RM)
C x D
Chairman of the
Board
30,000 0 30,000 1 30,000
Executive Director 10,000 0 10,000 1 10,000
Non-Executive
Director (Senior)
20,000 10,000 30,000 1 30,000
Non-Executive
Director (Junior)
10,000 10,000 20,000 3 60,000
130,000
Auditors (Agenda No. 5)
The Auditors, Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Ordinary Resolution – Authority to the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act, 2016 (Agenda No. 7)
The proposed Ordinary Resolution on Authority to the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016, if passed, will give a renewed mandate to the Directors of the Company with
full power to issue shares in the Company up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued shares of the
Company for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the interest of the Company. This would enable
the Directors to take swift action in case of a need for any possible fund raising corporate exercise or in the event of
business opportunities arise which involve the issuance of new shares, thus avoiding any delay and cost involved
in convening a general meeting to specifically approve such an issue of shares. This renewed mandate, unless
revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares of the Company were issued pursuant to the mandate granted to the
Directors at the last Annual General Meeting held on 19 August 2020, which mandate will lapse at the conclusion of
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 5
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Continued)
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
No individual other than the retiring Directors is seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming Forty-Sixth Annual
General Meeting of the Company. The details of the retiring Directors standing for re-election are set out in the
Directors’ Profile appearing on pages 7 to 9 of this Annual Report. An assessment on all the retiring Directors had
been conducted by the Nomination Committee.
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES – COVID-19 OUTBREAK SAFETY MEASURES
Health Check and Declaration
In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, your safety is our priority. As a precautionary measure, you are strongly advised
not to attend the Meeting and to appoint proxy(ies) to attend in your stead, if:-
i. you are unwell with sore throat, flu, cough, fever, diarrhea and/or shortness of breath; or
ii. you have travel history to high risk countries affected by Covid-19 in the past 14 days; or
iii. you have contact with a person who is confirmed with Covid-19 infection in the past 14 days.
Upon your arrival at the Meeting venue, you may be required to undergo to a temperature screening and to complete
a self-declaration form. Face masks will be provided to those who come without masks. Based on prevailing safety
and health guidelines, you may not be allowed into the Meeting, if:-
a. your temperature reading is above 37.5 o
C or you show symptoms of respiratory illness such as sore throat,
flu, cough, and/or shortness of breath; or
b. based on your self-declaration, you are advised to self-isolate.
No Refreshment and No Door Gifts/Goody-bags
To ensure physical distancing and to reduce the number of crowd at the Meeting, there will be no refreshment
served nor distribution of door gifts/goody-bags to all attendees of the Meeting.
Note: * As the COVID-19 outbreak is an ever evolving situation, the venue, date and mode of the Meeting may be
changed according to the circumstances then and any such changes will be publicly announced through Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
6
COMPANY SECRETARY
Jessica Chin Teng Li
(MAICSA 7003181)
(SSM PC No.: 202008002790)
REGISTERED OFFICE &
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS
ADDRESS
No. 12, Jalan Jorak
Kawasan Perindustrian Tongkang
Pecah
83010 Batu Pahat
Johor Darul Takzim
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 607-415 1688
Fax No.: 607-415 1135
CORPORATE OFFICE
No. L9, Jalan ML 16
ML-16 Industrial Park
43300 Seri Kembangan
Selangor Darul Eshan
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-8964 5600
Fax No.: 603-8964 5400
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn Bhd
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-2783 9299
Fax No.: 603-2783 9222
AUDITORS
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT
Chartered Accountants
Baker Tilly Tower
Level 10, Tower 1, Avenue 5
Bangsar South City
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-2297 1000
Fax No.: 603-2282 9980
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
RHB Bank Berhad
Bank Muamalat Malaysia Berhad
AmBank (M) Berhad
Bangkok Bank Berhad
Affin Islamic Bank Berhad
LISTING
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
Main Market – Listed since 1992
WEBSITE
www.hwatai.com
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See
(Chairman)
Datuk Soo Chung Yee
(Group Chief Executive Director)
Yee Fook Loong
Kamal Bin Abd Karim
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
Fong May Khuan
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 7
Mr. Soo Thien Ming, Malaysian, male, aged 73, is the Chairman
on the Board of the Company. He was appointed to the Board
on 26 April 1996. Mr. Soo is a Barrister-At-Law of Lincoln’s Inn,
London. He is an advocate and solicitor by profession and has
been in practice for 46 years. He is also a Notary Public. He
holds several directorships in private companies in Malaysia and
abroad.
He is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee.
Mr. Soo has a direct shareholding of 30,949,567 ordinary shares
in the Company as at 31 March 2021 representing 41.36% of the
Company’s total issued shares. He is deemed to have an interest
in the equity holdings held by the Company in its subsidiaries by
virtue of his interest in the Company.
He is the father of YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee, the Group Chief
Executive Director of the Company.
Mr. Soo does not have any conflict of interest with the Company
nor any conviction for any offence, public sanction or penalty
imposed by any relevant regulatory bodies.
YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee, Malaysian, male, aged 42, is the
Group Chief Executive Director. He was appointed to the Board
on 16 August 2004. YBhg. Datuk Soo holds a Bachelor of Arts
from the University of Derby, United Kingdom. He was awarded
the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award (Emerging Entrepreneur
– Malaysia) in 2007 and the JCI Creative Young Entrepreneur
Award (Junior Chamber International – Malaysia) in 2008. He
also holds several directorships in private companies in Malaysia
and abroad.
He is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
He is the son of Mr. Soo Thien Ming, the Chairman of the
Company.
YBhg. Datuk Soo has a direct shareholding of 1,249,100 ordinary
shares in the Company as at 31 March 2021 representing 1.67%
of the Company’s total issued shares.
YBhg. Datuk Soo does not have any interest in the securities of
the Company’s subsidiaries. He also does not have any conflict
of interest with the Company nor any conviction for any offence,
public sanction or penalty imposed by any relevant regulatory
bodies.
PROFILE OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MR. SOO THIEN MING @
SOO THIEN SEE
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Fong May Khuan Fong May Khua
YBHG. DATUK SOO
CHUNG YEE
Non-Independent Executive Director
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
8
Mr. Yee Fook Loong, Malaysian, male, aged 65, was appointed to
the Board on 1 November 2017. He is an associate member of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and a
member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He was with
the Park May Group for more than 10 years until 1995; with his
last position as an executive director of Park May Berhad (now
known as Konsortium Transnasional Berhad), a public listed
company. Mr. Yee now holds directorships in several private
companies in Malaysia.
Mr. Yee is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He does not have any family relationship with any directors and/
or major shareholders of the Company. He does not have any
interest in the securities of the Company or its subsidiaries. He
does not have any conflict of interest with the Company nor any
conviction for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
Encik Kamal Bin Abd Karim, Malaysian, male, aged 42, was
appointed to the Board on 27 June 2016. He holds a Bachelor of
Laws LLB (Hons) from International Islamic University Malaysia.
Encik Kamal, an advocate & solicitor, was admitted to the
Malaysian Bar in year 2003 and has been practicing at Messrs.
Soo Thien Ming & Nashrah ever since. He is also a partner of the
said firm.
Encik Kamal sits in the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee,
Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee.
He does not have any family relationship with any directors and/
or major shareholders of the Company. He does not have any
interest in the securities of the Company or its subsidiaries. He
does not have any conflict of interest with the Company nor any
conviction for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(Continued)
MR. YEE FOOK LOONG
Independent Non-Executive Director
ENCIK KAMAL BIN
ABD KARIM
Independent Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 9
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, female, aged 32, was
appointed to the Board on 27 June 2016. She holds a Bachelor of
Laws LLB (Hons) from International Islamic University Malaysia.
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah is an advocate & solicitor practicing at
Messrs. Ang & Koh.
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah sits in the Audit Committee, Nomination
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk Management
Committee.
She does not have any family relationship with any directors and/
or major shareholders of the Company. She does not have any
interest in the securities of the Company or its subsidiaries. She
does not have any conflict of interest with the Company nor any
conviction for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
Madam Fong May Khuan, female, aged 38, was appointed to the
Board on 1 August 2018. She is a member of CPA Australia and
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. Madam Fong worked
with TAMS Management Services Sdn. Bhd. as an accounts
manager. She was also involved in organising annual seminars
for analysing the Malaysian National Budget.
Madam Fong May Khuan is a member of the Audit Committee.
She does not have any family relationship with any directors and/
or major shareholders of the Company. She does not have any
interest in the securities of the Company or its subsidiaries. She
does not have any conflict of interest with the Company nor any
conviction for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(Continued)
PUAN AISYAH KAMALIAH
BINTI ABU BAKAR
Independent Non-Executive Director
MADAM FONG
MAY KHUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
10
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
1. COMPOSITION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
Yee Fook Loong * (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director
Kamal Bin Abd Karim Independent Non-Executive Director
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar Independent Non-Executive Director
Fong May Khuan * Independent Non-Executive Director
* A member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee is available in the Company’s website www.hwatai.com.
3. AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, a total of four (4) Audit Committee Meetings were held.
Details of the attendance of each Committee Member are as follows:-
Name of Audit Committee Member Attendance
Yee Fook Loong (Chairman) 3 of 4
Kamal Bin Abd Karim 4 of 4
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar 4 of 4
Fong May Khuan 4 of 4
4. ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the activities of the Audit Committee included the
following:
a. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results before recommending them for the Board’s approval
for public announcement. The reviews were conducted through discussions with the Financial
Controller.
b. ReviewedanddiscussedwiththeExternalAuditorstheirauditplanbeforecommencementofthefinancial
year end audit. The matters reviewed and discussed in the audit plan included the independence of the
External Auditors, consideration of fraud, related party disclosures, statutory timeline & audit timeframe,
audit & financial reporting considerations from the impact of coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic outbreak,
risk assessment & audit approach, focus areas of the audit, accounting developments, introduction
of the External Auditors’ engagement team and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and External
Auditors.
c. Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors their audit review, significant findings and the
management’s responses in respect of the financial year end audit. The matters reviewed and discussed
in the audit review included the External Auditors terms of engagement, independence of the External
Auditors, status of the audit and also focus areas of the audit such as risk management & internal
controls, any fraud related matters, related party transactions, audit & financial reporting considerations
from the impact of coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic, potential key audit matters and matters for control
improvements. The significant audit findings reviewed and discussed included recoverability of long
outstanding trade receivables and impairment review on investment in subsidiaries, and potential key
audit matters comprising trade receivables and investment in subsidiaries.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 11
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(Continued)
4. ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE (Continued)
d. Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors the Group’s audited financial year end statements
together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports before recommending them for the Board’s approval
for public announcement. The review and discussion also included the potential key audit matter and
the management representation letter. The review and discussion were conducted to ensure that the
auditedfinancialyearendstatementsaredrawnupinaccordancewiththeMalaysianFinancialReporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act,
2016, and give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and of their
financial performance and cash flows.
e. Reviewed the related party transactions that had arisen within the Company and Group. The Audit
Committee is satisfied that the transactions with directors, substantial shareholders and persons
connected are insignificant and duly disclosed.
f. Reviewed with the Internal Auditor the internal audit reports, findings and recommendations and
management’s responses, and discussed actions taken by the management to improve the internal
control system in various divisions in the Group.
g. Convened meetings with the External Auditors without the attendance of the management. One (1) of
such meetings was held during the financial year.
h. Reviewed the suitability in terms of performance, competency and professionalism of the External
Auditors to be recommended for re-appointment, and secured the assurance on independence from
the External Auditors.
5. INTERNAL AUDIT
The Internal Audit function involves the implementation of independent and systematic reviews of the
processes and guidelines of the Group and the reporting of their application and compliance to the Audit
Committee and Board of Directors. The Internal Audit function also involves the reporting of the state of
internal control of the various operations within the Group and the extent of compliance with the established
policies and procedures and the suggestion of any additional improvement opportunities in the areas of
internal control, systems and efficiency improvement.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the following Internal Audit activities which were
performed in-house, were carried out:-
a. Mapping of the current state of procedures and process.
b. Testing, evaluating and identifying potential areas that lack internal control.
c. Analysing and assessing certain key operation processes, report findings and make recommendation
for improvements.
d. Reviewing compliance with established policies and procedures, as well as assessing the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
12
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(Continued)
5. INTERNAL AUDIT (Continued)
e. The specific divisions in which Internal Audit was carried out during the financial year are as follows:-
i. Purchasing (Johor) – Purchasing Department Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included
approval matrix & approval limit for purchase order, comparative analysis of purchases of raw
materials and packing materials between two years period, purchase controls, delivery lead
times of various raw and packing materials, new suppliers & new materials evaluation control
procedure, new suppliers & new materials selection and approved suppliers evaluation.
ii. International Sales (Johor) – International Sales & Shipping Audit. The Internal Audit conducted
included approval matrix for authorising various documents, sales order procedure, shipping
department procedure, comparative sales performance between two years period, sales
contribution from customers and the comparison of their sales value between two years period,
comparison of actual sales performance against budget between two years period and sales
receivables ageing.
iii. Finance (Johor) - Debtors Ageing and Credit Control Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included
trade debtors ageing for local and overseas customers, debtors ageing list of local customers
(Peninsular Malaysia), credit limit & credit terms of local customers (Peninsular Malaysia),
net balances due from distributors which provide warehousing and distribution service to the
Company’s subsidiary, debtors ageing list of local customers (East Malaysia) and debtors ageing
list of overseas customers.
iv. Human Resources (Johor) – Human Resource Department Audit (on workers Grades C & D). The
Internal Audit conducted included recruitment procedure, comparative annual manpower turnover
rates between two years period, comparative year end manpower between two years period,
human resources functions, comparative total gross remuneration payout between two years
period, procedure for applying approval of foreign workers, basic salary report of local and foreign
workers, comparative breakdown of claims received from the Human Resources Development
Fund (HRDF) between two years period, amount of HRDF contribution, comparative training cost
per head count between two years period, training per man-hour for food related safety and non-
food related safety, comparative number of cases of staff injury arising from accident between
two years period, safety & health procedure and accident & incident investigation & reporting
procedure.
v. Finance (Johor) – Petty Cash Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included approval matrix for
authorising petty cash vouchers, safekeeping of petty cash monies, purposes of petty cash funds,
petty cash control system, petty cash withdrawal methods, procedure for petty cash requests,
comparative monthly petty cash reimbursements between two years period, details of petty cash
reimbursements and procedure for handling petty cash.
The internal audit department consists of one personnel who holds a Bachelor degree and who is free from any
relationships or conflicts of interest to carry out the Internal Audit function independently. The current number of
resources in the internal audit department is sufficient to carry out all Internal Audit activities as the Group is a mid-
size organisation. The Group incurred approximately RM70,000/- for the Internal Audit function during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 13
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors is committed and continues to ensure the compliance with the principles and best practices
as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 (“Code”) to ensure high standards of corporate
governance are practiced in the Group. The Board is pleased to provide the following overview statement on how
the Group has applied the principles and best practices as set out in the Code. The details of the Group’s application
of each practice of the Code during the financial year may be downloaded from the Company’s website www.
hwatai.com.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A. The Board.
The Board leads and controls the Group. The Board is bestowed with the duty and responsibility to ensure the
interests of the shareholders are protected. The duties and responsibilities of the Board which are separated
from that of the management, are spelt out in the Board Charter which is available in the Company’s website.
Where appropriate, formal structures and committees are in place to facilitate the Board in carrying out its
duties. All Board committees report to the Board.
The Board meets on a regular and scheduled basis, at least 4 times a year.
B. Composition and Board Balance.
The Board comprises 6 members to reflect the interests of the major shareholder, management, and minority
shareholders.
The Chairman, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, heads the Board with an Executive Director
and 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors together bring a wide range of business, financial, industrial and legal experience to lead the
Group in the area of business strategies, performance, utilization of resources and standards of conduct.
Generally, the Executive Director is responsible for carrying out the day to day operational functions while the
Non-Executive Directors will play the supporting role by contributing their knowledge and experience in the
business strategic plans.
Where areas of conflict of interest arise, the Director concerned will have to declare his/her interest and
abstain from participating in the decision making process.
C. Board Meetings and Supply of Information.
A Board report is prepared prior to the Board meeting and sufficient notice is given to the Directors to review
the papers and agenda for the meeting.
Generally, the Board papers provide information on the operating results, financial, corporate development,
minutes of Board Committees and acquisitions and disposals proposals, if any.
In furtherance of the Directors’ duties, all members, either as full Board or in their individual capacities, will
have access to all information of the Group.
Directors are also free to seek independent advice should the need arise and have direct access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
14
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
C. Board Meetings and Supply of Information (Continued)
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the total number of Directors’ Meetings convened was 4.
The details of attendance of Directors at these Meetings are as follows:
Name of Director Number of Meetings Attended
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See 2 of 4
Datuk Soo Chung Yee 4 of 4
Yee Fook Loong 3 of 4
Kamal Bin Abd Karim 4 of 4
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar 4 of 4
Fong May Khuan 4 of 4
D. Appointments to the Board.
In compliance with the Code on the appointment of Directors, the Board had set up a Nomination Committee
to advise the Board on the nomination of new Board members and assess Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Nomination Committee comprises Mr. Soo Thien Ming, En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan Aisyah
Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors and a majority of whom are independent.
Mr. Soo Thien Ming, who is a Non-Independent Director holds the Chair of the Nomination Committee as
his extensive chairmanship experience will assist in leading the Nomination Committee professionally and
effectively.
The Committee shall make recommendations to the Board on the appropriate appointments of new Directors
and also to fill seats on committees of the Board. In making recommendation to the Board on the candidate
for appointment, the Committee shall determine various criteria including qualities, experience, skills,
level of commitment and time that the candidate can contribute and shall also take into consideration the
composition and mix skills of the existing Board. Whilst the Committee respects the requirement for gender
diversity, emphasis shall first be placed on the qualities, experience and skills of a candidate irrespective
of gender, which would best correspond to the composition of the Board so as to function effectively and
efficiently. Nevertheless, with 2 females Board members, Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar and Madam
Fong May Khuan, the Company fulfilled the 30% female representation on the Board and this is a testament
of the Company’s support for gender diversity.
In addition, the Nomination Committee assesses the contribution of individual Board members, the
effectiveness of the Board and the committees of the Board on an annual basis.
The duties and responsibilities are spelt out in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee which
is available in the Company’s website.
During the financial year, the Committee had carried out an evaluation of each Director’s ability to contribute
to the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, including an assessment of the independent directors
on their independence. It also evaluated the Directors who were due for retiring and proposed these retiring
Directors to the Board to be put forward for re-election by the shareholders.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 15
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
E. Re-election.
In accordance to the Company’s Constitution, an election of Directors shall take place each year at an Annual
General Meeting and all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every 3 years.  Directors appointed
by the Board are subject to retirement at the next Annual General Meeting held following their appointments
in accordance with the Company’s Constitution. All retiring Directors are eligible for re-election.
The tenure of an Independent Director should not exceed a cumulative term of 9 years. Upon completion
of the 9 years, the Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board subject to the director’s re-
designation as a Non-Independent Director. The Board must justify and seek shareholders’ approval in the
event it retains, as an Independent Director, a person who has served in that capacity for more than 9 years.
In addition, if the Board continues to retain an Independent Director after the 12th year, the Board should seek
annual shareholders’ approval through a 2-tier voting process. Under the 2-tier voting process, shareholders’
votes will be cast in the following manner whereby the resolution is deemed successful if both Tier 1 and Tier
2 votes support the resolution:-
• Tier 1 : Only the *Large Shareholders of the Company vote; and
• Tier 2 : Shareholders other than *Large Shareholders vote.
* Large Shareholders means a person who:-
- is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, not less than 33% of the voting shares in the
Company;
- is the largest shareholder of voting shares in the Company;
- has the power to appoint or cause to be appointed a majority of the Directors of the Company;
- has the power to make or cause to be made, decisions in respect of the business or
administration of the Company, and to give effect to such decisions or cause them to be
given effect to.
DIRECTORS’ TRAINING
The Nomination Committee is tasked to facilitate Board induction and training programmes.
All the Directors had attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme within 4 months from their respective dates
of appointment.
During the financial year, the Directors were unable to attend any formal training due to their demanding work
schedules and commitments. Nevertheless, the Directors, all being professionals in their respective fields, are well-
informed of new corporate developments especially in their individual areas of expertise. In addition, the Directors
were also updated by the Management and the External Auditors on any latest material development on various
relevant rules and regulations.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
16
DIRECTORS’ AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S REMUNERATION
The Board set up the Remuneration Committee to review the policy and make recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration package and benefits annually as accorded to the Executive Directors.  The Executive Directors shall
not participate in the decision makings relating to their own remunerations.
The members of the Remuneration Committee comprise Mr. Soo Thien Ming, En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, all of whom are non-executive directors. Mr. Soo Thien Ming is the Chairman of
the Committee.
Fees payable to the Directors are proposed by the Remuneration Committee to the Board who will then recommend
for shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Generally, the remuneration package will be structured according to the skills, experience and performance of the
Executive Directors to ensure the Group attracts and retains the Directors needed to run the Group successfully,
whereas the remuneration package for the Non-Executive Directors will hinge on their contribution to the Group in
terms of their knowledge and experience.
The breakdown of the Directors’ remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefit in kind during the
financial year ended 31 December 2020 is disclosed below:-
Name of Director Position Directors’
Fees
Salaries Allowance Bonus Other
emoluments *
Soo Thien Ming
@ Soo Thien See
Chairman RM30,000 – RM120,000 – –
Datuk Soo Chung
Yee
Group Chief
Executive
Director
RM10,000 RM1,409,998 RM132,128 RM170,173
Yee Fook Loong Independent
Director
RM30,000 – – –
Kamal Bin Abd
Karim
Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
Aisyah Kamaliah
Binti Abu Bakar
Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
Fong May Khuan Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
* Note: Other emoluments refer to employer’s statutory contributions.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 17
DIRECTORS’ AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S REMUNERATION (Continued)
The Company has a total of 4 personnel in positions of senior manager and above. The breakdown of the
remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefit in kind of these top 4 senior management during
the financial year ended 31 December 2020 in bands of RM50,000 is disclosed below. The disclosure below is not
on a named basis as it is imperative for the Company to maintain employees’ remuneration private and confidential
to avoid unhealthy comparison which might lead to discontentment among employees and an unharmonious
working environment:-
Number of Senior Management
Ranges of Remuneration Salaries Bonus Allowances Other emoluments *
RM0 – RM50,000 – 4 4 4
RM50,001 – RM100,000 1 – – –
RM100,001 – RM150,000 1 – – –
RM150,001 – RM200,000 1 – – –
RM200,001 – RM250,000 1 – – –
* Note: Other emoluments refer to employer’s statutory contributions.
SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue between the Group and Investors
The Group recognizes the importance of accountability to the shareholders and as such, conveys information on
the Group’s performance, directions, other matters of interest to the shareholders by way of annual reports, relevant
circulars, public announcements, the Company’s website and the issuance of press releases.
Annual General Meeting
Annual General Meeting is used as a primary mode of communication to report on the Group’s performance. Notice
of Annual General Meeting is issued at least 28 days before the date of meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders are encouraged to raise any questions pertaining to any issues
regarding the Group.
The Chairman, assisted by the Directors are available to answer any queries and discuss matters pertaining to the
business activities of the Group.
All resolutions in the Agenda of Annual General Meeting shall be put to vote by poll, and the results of such votes
shall be announced to the public detailing the number of votes cast for and against.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
18
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial Reporting
In preparing the annual financial statements and quarterly financial results, the Directors take steps to ensure a
clear, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s positions and prospects.
The Audit Committee is tasked to review and recommend for Board approval the Group’s annual financial statements
and quarterly financial results.
The Statement by Directors pursuant to section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out on page 111 of this
Annual Report.
Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board recognizes its responsibilities to maintain a sound system of risk management and internal controls
to safeguard shareholders’ investment and Group’s assets. The Risk Management Committee is established to
oversee the Group’s risk management framework and policies. The Risk Management Committee comprises a
majority of independent directors, namely, YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee, En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan Aisyah
Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar.
ThereviewofthesystemofriskmanagementandinternalcontrolsissetoutundertheStatementofRiskManagement
and Internal Controls set out on pages 19 to 20 of this Annual Report. The Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Controls had been reviewed by the external auditors.
Audit Committee / Relationship with Auditors
The Audit Committee works closely with the external auditors and maintains a transparent professional relationship
with them.
A summary of the activities of the Audit Committee during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on
pages 10 to 12 of this Annual Report.
Ethical Conduct and Sustainability
Employees are introduced to the ethical corporate culture of the Group during employee induction and thereafter,
employees are constantly monitored to ensure the culture is upheld in their dealings within the Group and also in
their association with our customers, distributors, suppliers, governmental and regulatory authorities and other
business associates. Any employee may report directly to the Chairman of any ethical misconduct discovered
within the Group. A written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, a written Whistleblowing Policy and a written
Anti-Corruption Policy are established to form a guide to all employees. These said code and policies are available
in the Company’s website.
The Group consistently conducts its business in a manner which underpins sustainability. The Sustainability Report
is set out on pages 22 to 28 of this Annual Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Company continued with its tradition of contributing annually to various schools and non-profit organisations
such as associations of the handicapped and disabled persons and homes for the aged, both monetarily and in-
kind.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 19
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors of HwaTai Industries Berhad (“HTIB”) is pleased to present its Statement of Risk Management
and Internal Controls for the financial year ended 31 December 2020, which has been prepared pursuant to paragraph
15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements and guided by
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Controls: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issues.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for maintaining the Group’s system of Risk Management
and Internal Controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets, as well as for regularly
reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the internal control system. Due to limitations inherent in any system of
internal control, it is important to note that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure
to achieve corporate objectives. Therefore, the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group Chief Executive Director, the General Manager and the Financial Controller had given their verbal
assurance that, to their best knowledge and belief, the Group’s risk management and internal control system is
operating adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal control
system of the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board also recognises that risk management should be an integral part of the Group culture and is a continuous
on going process of identifying, evaluating, minimising and managing of significant risk faced by the Group. The
management is responsible for creating risk awareness culture and to build the necessary environment for effective
risk management. In addition, the Heads of Department are responsible for managing the risk of their department
on a day to day basis. Significant issues related to risk management and internal controls are highlighted to the
Board. If deemed necessary, assistance from external parties shall be consulted on issues in which the Board
needs to seek an opinion.
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
Key elements of the Group’s internal controls that have been in place for the financial year which include the
following:
1. The Group has a well defined organisation structure with clear lines of reporting, responsibilities and level of
authority.
2. There are clear definition of authorisation procedures for major operating functions including purchases,
capital expenditures, payments, credit control and stock control. Authority of the Directors is required for key
treasury matters which include loan and trade financing, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
3. There is a budgeting and business planning process in each financial year to establish plans and targets for
each operating units. The performance of each operating unit is monitored through monthly reports.
4. The Group’s management team meets at least once a month to review and monitor the business development,
discuss and resolve key operational and management issues and review the performance against the
business plan and budget for each operating units within the Group.
The management also highlights any significant issues and changes in the business, major policy matters,
external environment affecting the Group and financial performance of each operating unit to the Board of
Directors and Audit Committee when the Board and Committee meet quarterly.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
20
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
(Continued)
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS (Continued)
5. Adequate financial and operational information systems are in place to capture and present timely and
pertinent business information.
6. The Audit Committee reviews the quarterly financial results and yearly audited financial statements prior to
the approval by the Board of Directors.
7. The Audit Committee also reviews the internal auditor’s reports and monitors the status of the implementation
of corrective actions to address internal control weaknesses.
8. In addition to the internal controls, the Board of Directors and management have ensured that safety and
health regulations have been considered and complied with.
9. The Company was accredited ISO 9002 since 1996 and upgraded to ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems
since year 2002. Documented internal procedures and standard operating procedures have been put in place
and surveillance audits are conducted by the assessors of the ISO certification body to ensure that the system
is adequately implemented.
10. Emphasis is given to food safety. The Company was accredited the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP) system certification since year 2000. The Company continually implements and intergrades
more food safety systems and was certified with ISO 22000 in year 2018. Good Manufacturing Practice is
documented and practiced to ensure food safety.
11. Ecosystem and environmental health are also concerns of the Company. Necessary actions and plans have
been put in place to ensure compliance of company products, activities and services with legal environmental
laws and regulations.
12. In ensuring each operating unit is functioning efficiently, much emphasis is placed on personnel employed.
The professionalism and competence of the staff are maintained through a structural recruitment process,
performance appraisal system and wide variety of training and development programs.
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of Bursa Securities Listing Requirements, the External Auditors have conducted
a limited assurance engagement on this Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls. Their limited
assurance engagement was performed in accordance with ISAE3000, Assurance Engagement other than Audits or
Review of Historical Financial Information and Audit Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, Guidance for Auditors on
the Review of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control included in the Annual Report.
Based on their procedures performed, the External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to
their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance
with disclosure required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls:
Guidance for Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, nor is factually inaccurate. AAPG 3 does not require the
External Auditors to consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control system.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 21
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of the Listing Requirements of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”) to issue a statement explaining their responsibility for preparing the annual
audited financial statements.
The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group as at the financial year end and of the financial
performance and cashflows of the Company and of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements of the Company and of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020 as set out herein on pages 39 to 110 of this Annual Report, the Company and the
Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates. The Directors also consider that all applicable approved accounting standards have
been followed in respect of the preparation of the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2016.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
OTHER INFORMATION
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving the interests of the
Directors and chief executive who is not a director or major shareholder, either still subsisting at the end of the
financial year or entered into since the end of the previous financial year. The Company and its subsidiaries do not
have any such chief executive.
Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group by the Auditors, Messrs.
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, during the financial year totalled approximately RM94,000/- and RM133,000/-
respectively.
Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group by the Auditors,
Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, or a firm or corporation affiliated to them during the financial year totalled
approximatelyRM21,000/-andRM38,000/-respectively.Theseservicescomprisedthecomputationandsubmission
of tax and also review of certain statements and information as required by Bursa Malaysia.
Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
The total Rights Issue proceeds of RM13,916,000/- from the Company’s Rights Issue completed on 14 April 2015
was fully utilised on 15 June 2020 as announced on even-date.
Recurrent Related Party Transaction of a Revenue Nature
There was no recurrent related party transaction of a revenue nature which requires Shareholders’ mandate during
the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
AND OTHER INFORMATION
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
22
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Sustainability Governance
Hwa Tai Group’s sustainability goal is driven by the Board of Directors.
A working group has been set up to assist the Board in embedding sustainability in Hwa Tai Group’s business
approach. The working group is responsible in determining strategies, policies and objectives on sustainability
matters taking into consideration economic, environmental and social impacts, and also in sustainability
management.
All possible impacts will be evaluated and recommendations will be made in order to have better control on
sustainability matters and also increase efficiency in use of resources.
This working group is headed by the General Manager and assisted by various operating units. Each operating unit
is delegated the responsibility of managing its respective day-to-day operations by integrating sustainability in the
unit’s processes and procedures. All sustainability practice will be monitored by the General Manager who reports
to Group Chief Executive Director (GCED).
Risk
As Hwa Tai Group is a confectionery manufacturer, the main risk area which the working group identified that may
bring impact is food safety issues. We have in placed a product quality and food safety system to mitigate risks
concerning food safety, which is elaborated in the following paragraphs.
General Manager
(Head of Sustanability)
Group Chief Executive
Director (GCED)
Quality & Food
Safety Management
Representative
Senior Purchasing
Manager
International Sales
Manager
Research and
Development
Manager
Human Resource
Cum Safety Manager
Senior Production
Manager
Domestic Sales
Manager
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 23
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
Scope
This Statement covers the Group’s operations in Malaysia with main emphasis on quality and food safety control
processes.
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors
1. Marketplace
Product Quality & Food Safety System
From data of World Health Organization (WHO), an estimation of 600 million, about 1 in 10 people in the world
fall ill after eating contaminated food and 420,000 die every year, resulting in the loss of 33 million healthy life
years (DALYs). Unsafe food creates a vicious cycle of disease and malnutrition, particularly affecting infants,
young children, elderly and the sick.
As a responsible food manufacturer, we do take seriously in this part by understanding our role in manufacture
of high quality, delicious and reliable products in hygienic conditions in compliance with relevant legislations
and directives. There are several food safety and quality systems in place to ensure our role is achieved and
maintained effectively.
We are successfully certified by SIRIM with ISO 22000 in year 2018 which is a food safety management
system that would provide customer confidence in our products. This is becoming more and more important
as nowadays customers demand safe food. By implementing and practicing ISO 22000 food safety
management system, we managed to ensure and maintain food safety and quality before delivering our
products to the market. Social responsibility is always a part of our business philosophy and we work towards
continuous improvement in our processing line in order to provide safe and healthy food consistently to
customers.
i. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
A management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of
biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to
manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
Through the Critical Control Points system, we identify and analyse elements that may pose any quality
and food safety risk to our products. The control system is developed to bring all possible risk elements
under control. Continuous monitoring on those elements through HACCP procedures, work instruction
and records helps to ensure our products are safe and in good quality to be consumed.
ii. International Organization for Standardization Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015)
A set of policies, processes and procedures is required for planning and execution (production/
development/service) in the core business area of the organization. The system ensures our products
are produced and monitored using zero defect principle in compliance with necessary parameters for
food safety such as colour, odour, textures and etc.
To have a better management of quality system, we are now accredited to ISO 9001:2015. This
standard is based on a number of quality management principles including a strong customer focus,
the motivation and implication of top management, the process approach and continual improvement.
By implement ISO 9001:2015, we can enhance our assurance in providing our valued customers
consistent, good quality products and services.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
24
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors (Continued)
1. Marketplace (Continued)
Product Quality & Food Safety System (Continued)
iii. Halal Assurance Management System
Quoted from Manual Procedure for Malaysia Halal Certification (2014),  the definition of halal according
to Trade Descriptions (Definition of  Halal)  Order  2011  and  Trade  Descriptions  (Definition  of  Halal)
(Amendment) Order 2012 is as follows:
a. When food or goods are described as halal or are described in any other expression to indicate
that the food or goods can be consumed or used by a Muslim, such expression means that the
food or goods are:
i. neither is nor consist of or contains any part or matter of an animal that is prohibited
by Shariah law for a Muslim to consume or that has not been slaughtered in accordance
with  Shariah  law  and  Fatwa;
ii. does not contain anything which is impure/ najs according to Shariah law and
Fatwa;
iii. does not intoxicate according to Shariah law and Fatwa;
iv. does not contain any part of a human being or its yield which are not allowed by Shariah
law  and  Fatwa;
v. is not poisonous or hazardous to health;
vi. has not been prepared, processed or manufactured using any instrument that is
contaminated with najs according to Shariah Law and Fatwa; and
vii. has not in the course of preparing, processing or storage been in contact with, mixed, or
in close proximity to any food that fails to satisfy paragraph (i) and (ii).
b. When services in relation to the food or goods are described in any other expression to indicate
that the services can be used by a Muslim, such expression means that the services in relation to
the food or goods are carried out in accordance with Shariah law.
We are proud to claim that all our products are Halal certified and comply with MS 1500:2019.
Thus, our products are safe to be consumed by Muslim.
iv. Internal Management System
In order to ensure completeness and integrity of our food safety and quality system including HACCP
and ISO system, we will conduct internal audit annually. This audit is inter-department oriented to
ensure the entire audit is conducted without any bias and all of our auditors are well trained.
We have conducted our internal audit in September, 2020 and below are the scope we covered;
a. ISO standard MS 9001 : 2015
b. HACCP standard MS 1480 : 2019
c. ISO 22000 : 2018
Besides, our company has also assigned an internal auditor to have counter audit on various functions
in the organization and all the outcomes will be directly reported to Audit Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 25
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors (Continued)
2. Workplace
Employees are the backbones of the business. Essentially employees are central to the smooth functioning
of business operations and play a vital role in the success and sustainability of the Group.
Equal opportunity for employment are provided within the Group. The Group, in fulfiling its corporate
responsibility as a caring employer places emphasis on building long lasting relationships with its employees.
The efforts towards achieving the above objectives are carried out in various aspects:
i. Employees Welfare and Well- being
The success of the Group depends on its employees hard work, loyalty, strong leadership, integrity and
devotion of theirs strengths to help the Group achieves its objectives.
The Group aims to enhance the employees welfare and well-being to build an engaged workforce that
stay focus and grow within the Group.
In pursuing this objective we provide the following:
a) Medical benefits, hospitalisation and Group insurance coverage.
b) Present Long Service Awards in recognition of loyalty, dedication and commitment.
c) Recognition of employees achievement in accomplishing the Company goals by rewarding bonus
and incentives to maintain a high performance work environment.
ii. Safe, Healthy and Conducive Environment
The Group strives to provide a safe, healthy, comfortable and conducive work environment for its
employees through the following initiatives:
a) Ensuring a safe workplace with 24 hours security surveillance.
b) The Group Occupational Safety and Health Committee initiates various health and safety
programs such safe practices in production, forklift safety operating procedure training, fire drills,
fire extinguisher training, as well as safe handling of chemicals.
c) Enforcement and enhancement of safe practices in all aspects at all times.
d) Constantly updating and promoting the awareness of safety precaution and health issues.
e) Safety gears like personal protective equipment i.e. ear plugs, safety shoes, masks, helmets
and others are provided to relevant employees to prevent the consequences of serious injuries.
Employees are required to wear the equipment at all times during work to minimise the effects of
workplace hazards.
f) Maintaining a workplace free of any form of abuse be it physical or verbal harassment and
discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, religion, gender, age or disability by encouraging
employees to report to the management if they have come to know of any such incidents.
iii. Training and Development
a) The Group seeks to promote and develop its human assets to be competent, multi-skilled and
well motivated to increase their career advancement opportunities.
b) To build a more effective workforce, the Human Resources Department develops the Annual
Training Plan, taking into consideration feedback from employees who can suggest the types
of training courses, continuous and structured job related trainings, seminars and workshops to
regularly enhance theirs technical skills and knowledge as well as soft management skills.
c) Requiring all new employees to participate in new employees orientation to get clear insights into
the Group’s operation.
d) Our training programmes are constantly revised and improved based on changing business
needs, and are delivered by internal and external training provider.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
26
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors (Continued)
3. Environment
We take a serious view of impacts on the environments caused by our operations. To ensure our operations
are environmentally responsible, we actively participate and cooperate with local authorities to manage our
waste and energy. Several steps are taken to govern and reduce impacts to the environment.
a. Waste Water Treatment System
Since year 2014 our waste water treatment system has been upgraded to hybrid treatment plant
which consists of chemical treatment and biological treatment process. Due to our manufacturing
operations expanded over the years; the increased wastewater flow gradually exceeded the capacity of
our previous wastewater plant. The difficulty was that we have space constraint which does not allow
us to accommodate massive wastewater treatment solution, thus we needed a hybrid plant that can
effectively treat the effluent.
One of the largest concerns facing is wastewater management. Our effluents are hard to be treated
as it comes with organic matters like fats and oils. Furthermore, inconsistent of influent conditions
brought on by factors such as load shocks, changes in temperature and production will also bring more
challenges in treatment. We need to incorporate a solution that could handle the plant’s peak-load and
fluctuations in wastewater processing.
To optimise the land area, hybrid waste water treatment plant has been designed by our consultant,
which allowed us to achieve wastewater objective without having to compromise on the parameters.
We are firm about maximizing wastewater treatment flow to allow additional capacity for greater flow
treatment requirement. To address that, we implemented a design flow of 50m³/day although the
current capacity required is about 20m³/day. We had also successfully reduced the concentration of
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) from above 3000mg/L to less than 100 mg/L and the moderation of
total suspended solids from above 300 mg/L to 10 mg/l (Standard A below 50mg/L).
With the above monitoring result, we are able to maintain our discharged effluent which contains
parameter within the limit of “Standard A” shown in seventh Schedule (Regulation 12, Acceptable
Conditions For Discharge of Industrial Effluent containing chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) For Specific
Trade Or Industry sector). To maintain performance of our wastewater treatment system, we do assign
a certified internal competence specialist in monitoring of our system. Other than that, daily monitoring
of effluent’s treatment result are also taken place to ensure our effluents complies with standard.
The focus of the waste management is to properly treat the raw wastewater to enable discharge into
local streams and we are always aligned with global environmental sustainability goals.
b. Waste Management
i. Oil Bund Facility (Palm Oil Storage Tank)
Bund wall is a constructed retaining wall with the function of ensuring potential polluting
substances are handled, processed or stored, for the purposes of containing any unintended
escape of materials.
In order to comply with Environment Quality Act 1974 of Department of Environment (DOE)
Malaysia, an oil bund facility has been constructed to prevent any leakage or spillage from tanks
and pipe of palm oil storage tank to its surrounding which may in turn pose harm on surrounding
biosystems. Holding capacity of the oil bund is 110 percent of our oil storage capacity.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 27
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors (Continued)
3. Environment (Continued)
b. Waste Management (Continued)
i. Oil Bund Facility (Palm Oil Storage Tank) (Continued)
(Approved design of oil bund by DOE)
ii. Scheduled Waste Management
In according to Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005, scheduled waste
means any waste falling within categories of waste listed in their first schedule of regulation.
Schedule wastes shall be stored in separate containers which are compatible with the scheduled
wastes to be stored, durable and which are able to prevent spillage or leakage into environment.
Incompatible scheduled waste shall be stored in separate containers, and such containers shall
be placed in separate secondary containment areas.
In aligned with the regulations, we have our safety and health team lead by certified environmental
professional in scheduled waste management (CePSWaM) to manage our relevant wastes on
both internal and external method.
iii. Replaced Energy Source to Natural Gas
Hwa Tai Group decided to invest in a new facility which enables the production plant to use
Natural Gas as energy source. We successfully converted all existing burning energy source to
Natural Gas in year 2018. Natural Gas is one of the world’s safest sources of energy used in the
industry and it is a better environmental preservation among the alternatives today. Conserving
natural resource and creating a more energy efficient plant would reduce pollution and minimise
harm to the environment.
We are always practicing production process that reduces impact on the environment by allowing
the creation of energy efficient process models. More development and upgrading projects will
be taken into consideration in keeping with our environmentally sustainable goals.
Oil Tank
Pipework
over wall
Pump
Bund wall
Collection
Sump
Moveable
Container
Copyright Reserved Track unload
connection point
Pump
Oil Tank
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
28
Corporate Responsibility towards Key Sectors (Continued)
4. Operation process management
Hwa Tai has made the first step into the industry 4.0 world of interconnectivity, remote observation and
moving from paper to electronic HACCP records. We are shifting focus towards sustainability and making
use of technology like Industrial Internet of Thing (IIot) to have better efficiency in terms of production and
process management.
With the implement of the new system, we are able to have real time machine data overview and high accuracy
of production data. These high accuracy and real time data would help us to make the best management
decisions.
5. Community
Hwa Tai continuously engages with non-government & non-profit organisations to do its part in CSR
programmes such as schools, old folks homes, ‘orang asli’ communities and etc.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 29
INTRODUCTION
Hwa Tai Industries Berhad (“Hwa Tai” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are mainly dealing in
manufacturing of biscuits and other confectionery under brand names, among others, HWA TAI, LUXURY, PALMERS
and PESTA.
In addition, the Group is involved in trading and distribution of its own products to various chain of outlets and is
also an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) for third party’s brand of biscuits.
OUR VISION & COMMITMENT
We aim to be a leading confectionery manufacturer in the region known for its product quality and variety.
Hwa Tai is committed to producing the best quality biscuit products for our customers all over the world and
creating business opportunities for our partners. We have over fifty-nine (59) years of manufacturing experience
and the ability to manage our entire value chain from procurement of raw materials to distribution of finished
products. From the Company’s very first beginning, we have recognized that the skilled and dedicated people who
work for us are critical to our success. We expect high standards from our staff - a team totally committed to the
provision of the highest quality service in the business.
Hwa Tai is a generous company which actively gives its best to the community. We aid the needy every year as our
company is operated by the belief that everyone should “Eat happily, Live healthily & Aid the needy”.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS
The table below highlights the Group’s key performance in FYE2020 and FYE2019:
FYE2020
RM’000
FYE2019
RM’000
Revenue 74,950 65,353
Cost of sales (52,540) (46,547)
Gross profit 22,410 18,806
Expenses (21,454) (21,804)
Other income 497 939
Share of loss from associated company (344) (413)
Profit/(Loss) before taxation 1,109 (2,472)
Taxation (15) 254
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year 1,094 (2,218)
Gross profit margin 30% 29%
The Group had recorded a revenue of RM74.95 million in the current financial year ended 31 December 2020
(“FYE2020”), an increase of approximately RM9.60 million equivalent to about 14.69%, as compared to RM65.35
million, a year ago, in the previous financial year ended 31 December 2019 (“FYE2019”).
The increase of revenue is mainly contributed by local markets in Peninsular and East Malaysia in general trade
segment as well as modern trade segment.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
30
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS (Continued)
Due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, Movement Control Order (“MCO”) was imposed by the Malaysia
Government starting from 18 March 2020 to curb its spread. Malaysians were forced to stay at home for long
periods following the imposition of MCO. Social distancing and other restrictions imposed due to Covid -19 have
meant people are not dining out as much as before and caused the increase in spending on groceries including our
biscuits for home consumption.
As part of the essential food sector, Hwa Tai has benefited from the outbreak as Hwa Tai was allowed to operate
throughout the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) period to produce and supply the biscuits to local markets.
The Group returned to the black in FYE2020, posted a profit of RM1.09 million as compared to a loss of RM2.22
million in FYE2019. The profit recorded in FYE2020 is mainly due to the increase in revenue which resulted a higher
margin from 29% in FYE2019 to 30% in FYE2020. Besides efficient cost control and streamlining of resources,
reversal of impairment loss for trade receivables also formed part of the contributions towards the achievement of
the profit in FYE2020.  
The breakdown of revenue of the Group is as below in FYE2020 and FYE2019:
FYE2020
RM’000 %
FYE2019
RM’000 %
Export sales 12,094 16 12,752 20
Local sales-
Hwa Tai & OEM Products 62,856 84 52,598 80
Agency products – – 3 –
Total 74,950 100 65,353 100
Our international market accounted to about 16% of the Group’s revenue in FYE 2020 as compared with 20% in
FYE2019. The remainder was from the domestic market of 84% and 80% in FYE2020 and FYE2019 respectively.
The Covid-19 is taking a toll on the Malaysian economy as well as many countries around the world. As our biscuits
are part of essential food, our export market was not adversely affected in FYE2020. The export sales showed a
slight decline of about 5.44% as compared with previous year. Certain countries like Thailand and Singapore, saw
an increase in demand in our biscuits during MCO period in FYE2020, but was offset by the drop of sales caused by
lock down of certain countries especially China in FYE 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic.
While our export market has room for growth, we may face challenges with more competition as the market is
getting crowded with more low cost producers surfacing from various other countries.
FYE2020 saw an increase of 19.50%, equivalent to about RM10.26 million in our local sales as compared to
FYE2019. Other than the increase in demand from consumers’ consumption of biscuits during MCO period arising
from Covid-19 pandemic , continuous spending on advertising and promotional expenses also played a vital role in
contributing to the increase of sales in Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia in our general trade segment as well
as modern trade segment.
To remain competitive in both international and domestic markets, distribution channel improvement, sales force
efficiency and effectiveness, continuous spending on advertising and promotional activities such as, among others,
roadshows, price rebates, engaging promoters, gondola ends, block displays, mailer supports, prize contests etc.
are carried out for our products to be more attractive and competitive to consumers.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 31
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS (Continued)
There was a slight increase in the Group’s gross profit margin at approximately 30% in FYE 2020 as compared with
29% in FYE2019. The slight increase of margin was mainly due to no major fluctuation prices of sugar, flour and
packaging materials, which are major cost components for our products. Moreover, there was no major movement
of foreign currency exchange (FOREX) on our export sales which mainly transacted in US Dollar in FYE2020 as
compared to FYE2019.
The Group had incurred total expenses of RM21.45 million in FYE2020, almost on par as compared with RM21.80
million in FYE2019, a marginal decrease of 1.63%. The expenses were mainly from advertising and promotional
expenses, staff cost and impairment loss on trade receivable. These expenses were also formed partly from selling
and distribution expenses, administration expenses and other expenses.
Other income of RM0.50 million in FYE2020 and RM0.94 million in FYE2019 was primarily derived from reversal of
impairment loss for associate and interests earned on fixed deposits placed at financial institutions for both of the
financial years.  
The Group had fully provided the impairment loss on the remaining cost of investment in our China associated
company, Shan Dong Yingerle Hwa Tai Food Industry Co. Ltd in financial year ended 31 December 2018 (“FYE2018”).
The impairment loss arose from prolonged decline in value of investment and significant financial difficulty in the
associated company. Thus, there will be no material impact on the Group’s results irrespective of the performance
of the associate neither in FYE2020 or coming years. Should there be any evidence which indicates that the
performance of the associated company is or will be better than expected, the Group will expect a write back of
these impairments.
In compliance with the disclosure of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard, a share of loss of RM344,000 in this
associate was recorded and the impact was mitigated by a reversal of partial impairment loss of RM342,000 for
this associate in FYE2020 which the impairment loss for its remaining cost of investments was fully provided in
FYE2018.
FINANCIAL POSITION
The table below highlights the Group’s financial position in FYE2020 and FYE2019:
FYE2020
RM’000
FYE2019
RM’000
Total assets 63,501 58,837
Total liabilities 39,907 36,339
Shareholders’ equity 23,588 22,490
Total borrowings
(Secured lease liabilities were included)
19,669 16,428
Cash and bank balances and short-term deposits 6,973 9,073
Net assets per share (sen) 31.52 30.05
Earnings/(Loss) per share (sen) 1.46 (2.97)
The shareholders equity increased to RM23.59 million in FYE2020 from RM22.49 million in FYE2019, an increase
of RM1.10 million. Total assets and total liabilities stood at RM63.50 million and RM39.91 million respectively in
FYE2020. An increase of RM4.66 million and RM3.57 million for total assets and total liabilities respectively were
recorded in FYE2020 as compared with FYE2019. Net assets per share and earnings per share were 31.52 sen and
1.46 sen respectively in FYE2020, reflected some improvement as compared with net asset per share and loss per
share of 30.05 sen and 2.97 sen respectively in FYE2019.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
32
FINANCIAL POSITION (Continued)
Included in short term deposits in FYE2019 is an amount of RM4.86 million, which is part of the RM7.00 million
Right Issue proceeds raised for capital expenditure from our previous corporate exercise in year 2015 as approved
by our shareholders at our Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 November 2014.
The Board has resolved to extend the utilization of the proceeds to 13 April 2020 and 13 July 2020 as announced
on 8 April 2019 and 9 April 2020 respectively. The balance of proceeds raised from the Rights Issue amounting to
RM7.00 million which was earmarked for capital expenses for business expansion which is to be utilized by the
timeframe of 13 July 2020 is now fully utilized as announced on 15 June 2020.
Investment in capital expenditure of approximately RM9.14 million in FYE2020 was primarily comprised of capital
work-in-progress amounting to RM6.77 million pertaining to the indirect fire convection biscuit line and the remainder
was mainly on factory upgrading and machineries. The Group expects to invest broadly the same in the year ahead
so as to keep up with technological changes where continuous capital expenditure investments are vital to improve
efficiency and productivity of our factory.
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS
In view of market competition and ever-growing demands from consumers, our Research and Development
division has continuously focused on product innovation, creativeness on developing healthier choices products
for consumers, market research in improving our current products to suit consumers preferences without
compromising on quality.
We have been continuously expanding our customer network by penetration to new markets locally and
internationally, developing and launching new products and also improve our product quality and variety. In line
with the new norm and e-commerce phenomenon, the Group also is working on various online shopping initiatives
to drive sales.
Apart from the above, the Group has continuously invested in factory upgrading and machineries to improve the
productionefficiencyforcostsavings.Ourfactoryhasbeenrenovatedanddesignedaccordingtofoodmanufacturing
standards in order to reduce the risk of contamination and facilitate the production of safe finished products.
Old factory roof system is removed and reinstalled with new insulated roof system for better manufacturing &
warehousing environment. The project of conversion of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) to Natural Gas, as a source
of burning energy for the production plant which will result in cost savings by approximately 50% was completed
in FYE2018.
As a player in the food industry, the Group is exposed to the risk associated with product quality and standard
as product safety and quality are of paramount importance to the Group. The risk may have financial impact as
well as reputation impact. Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing, plant & machinery
sanitization as well as employee personal hygiene to prevent contamination. Also the products traceability and
compliance with stringent quality system are in place too.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 33
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS (Continued)
Our business risk is mainly from potential labour shortages, price fluctuations of raw materials and changes in
consumer demand. These risks may lead to cost increase which will affect our profitability if such costs are not able
to be passed on to our consumers. To mitigate these risks, our management has taken steps such as remaining
flexible in sourcing raw materials and packing materials from different suppliers to ensure our Group is not overly
dependent on a single supplier without compromising its product quality. Also to acquire advanced machineries
and improve plant automation to be less dependent on labour. Compliance with Food and Beverage Standard and
licensing/approval from authorities are vital for us as a biscuit manufacturer. The management seeks to limit
these risks by maintaining strict compliance with the terms and conditions imposed by the respective authorities,
procure raw materials from reputable suppliers which have long standing business relationship with our Group.
In addition, the Group is also exposed to interest rate and liquidity risk as most of our borrowings are based on
floating interest rates, where any fluctuation in interest rates could lead to higher borrowing costs which will again
affect the profitability of the Group. We are not able to fully eliminate the risk of interest rate fluctuation faced and
notwithstanding this, the Group will carry out periodic reviews of cashflow position and funding requirements to
manage our exposure to adverse movements in interest rates.
DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors is not recommending any dividend in FYE2020.
OUTLOOK AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
We are cautiously optimistic at this juncture on the Covid-19 pandemic, optimism for economic recovery is
gathering momentum in Malaysia beginning with the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccines targeting immunizing 70% of
our population by the first quarter of 2022.
Moving forward, we anticipate the year ahead to remain difficult and challenging amidst the Covid-19 outbreak.
Local and world economy were badly affected and slowing down, volatility of Ringgit Malaysia against major foreign
currencies and the impact on volatile raw materials and packaging materials costs. These challenges have thus
increased our costs of production and customer acquisition.
We will constantly focus on improving the Group’s performance through the implementation of proactive measures,
the innovation of product portfolio, the broadening of our distributor network, enhancing our brand recognition
and products’ varieties for new business opportunities, cost rationalization, streamlining of resources and the
enhancement of operational efficiency.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
34
The directors hereby submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are that of a biscuit manufacturer and investment holding. The principal
activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these principal activities during the financial year.
RESULTS
				
Group Company
				
RM RM
		
Profit for the financial year 1,094,341 90,307
Attributable to:		
Owners of the Company				 1,095,342 90,307
Non-controlling interests				 (1,001) –
				 1,094,341 90,307
DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
The directors do not recommend the payment of any dividends in respect of the financial year ended 31 December
2020.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
allowance had been made for doubtful debts.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the amount written
off for bad debts or the amount of allowance for doubtful debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company inadequate to any substantial extent.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 35
CURRENT ASSETS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps
to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had been written down to an
amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed
to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
VALUATION METHODS
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render
adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading
or inappropriate.
CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) any contingent liabilities in respect of the Group or of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
In the opinion of the directors, no contingent or other liability of the Group or of the Company has become enforceable,
or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or
may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial
statements misleading.
ITEMS OF MATERIAL AND UNUSUAL NATURE
In the opinion of the directors,
(i) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year were not substantially
affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of
the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations
of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
36
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, no new issue of shares or debentures were made by the Company.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up the unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS
The directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date
of the report are:
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See*
Datuk Soo Chung Yee*
Kamal Bin Abd Karim
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
Yee Fook Loong
Fong May Khuan					
* Directors of certain subsidiaries. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See resigned from the subsidiaries on 9 March
2021.
Other than as stated above, the names of the directors of the subsidiaries of the Company in office during the
financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of the report are:
Yap Lee Yong
Teo Giap Cheng (Appointed on 8 March 2021)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept by the Company under Section 59 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the interests of directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares in the
Company and its related corporations during the financial year were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		
At			
At
		 1 January			 31 December
		 2020 Bought Sold 2020
The Company
Direct interest
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See		 30,949,567 – – 30,949,567
Datuk Soo Chung Yee		 – 879,400 – 879,400
By virtue of his interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia, Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See is deemed to have an interest in the ordinary shares of the
subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
Other than as stated above, none of the other directors in office at the end of the financial year had any interest in
ordinary shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 37
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive
any benefit (other than benefits included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable, by
the directors as disclosed in Note 20(a) to the financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company
or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a company in which
the director has a substantial financial interest.
Neither during, nor at the end of the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangements where the object
is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of the Company
or any other body corporate.
INDEMNITY TO DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
No amount of indemnity coverage has been given nor insurance premium paid for the directors and officers of the
Company during the financial year.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The available auditors’ reports on the accounts of the subsidiaries did not contain any qualification.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
The details of significant events subsequent to the end of the financial year are disclosed in Note 28 to the financial
statements.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The details of the auditors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
INDEMNITY TO AUDITORS
The indemnity to auditors of the Company is provided pursuant to Section 289 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia. No payment has been made to indemnify the auditors during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
38
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
This report was approved and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the
directors:
SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE
Director
DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE
Director
Date: 12 April 2021
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 39
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020
Group Company
		2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 17,676,158 11,768,273 16,677,553 10,595,754
Right-of-use assets 6 3,682,170 3,270,511 3,028,187 2,564,482
Investment in subsidiaries 7 – – 6,937,002 6,950,406
Investment in an associate 8 – – – –
Total non-current assets		 21,358,328 15,038,784 26,642,742 20,110,642
Current assets
Inventories 9 9,258,286 8,226,594 7,613,043 7,247,101
Trade and other receivables 10 25,052,522 25,965,473 21,042,204 22,505,489
Prepayments		 293,731 282,362 242,056 249,839
Tax recoverable		 564,819 250,000 564,819 250,000
Other investment 11 – 1,427 – 1,427
Cash, bank balances and 					
 short-term deposits 12 6,973,057 9,072,628 6,524,130 8,708,325
Total current assets		 42,142,415 43,798,484 35,986,252 38,962,181
TOTAL ASSETS		 63,500,743 58,837,268 62,628,994 59,072,823
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners
 of the Company
Share capital 13 29,933,308 29,933,308 29,933,308 29,933,308
Accumulated losses		 (6,660,136) (7,755,478) (2,043,384) (2,133,691)
Translation reserves		 314,637 312,598 – –
Shareholders’ equity		 23,587,809 22,490,428 27,889,924 27,799,617
Non-controlling interests		 6,362 7,363 – –
TOTAL EQUITY		 23,594,171 22,497,791 27,889,924 27,799,617
Non-current liability
Lease liabilities 6 1,350,886 1,211,469 1,239,105 1,025,754
Total non-current liability		 1,350,886 1,211,469 1,239,105 1,025,754
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 14 16,760,118 17,451,216 11,890,502 12,667,598
Contract liabilities 15 2,944,476 2,020,844 2,832,306 2,007,195
Loans and borrowings 16 18,260,543 15,226,459 18,260,543 15,226,459
Lease liabilities 6 590,549 429,489 516,614 346,200
Total current liabilities		 38,555,686 35,128,008 33,499,965 30,247,452
TOTAL LIABILITIES		 39,906,572 36,339,477 34,739,070 31,273,206
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 63,500,743 58,837,268 62,628,994 59,072,823
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
40
Group Company
		2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue 17 74,950,417 65,352,730 64,396,311 57,073,593
Cost of sales 18 (52,539,849) (46,546,728) (45,743,643) (40,835,274)
Gross profit		 22,410,568 18,806,002 18,652,668 16,238,319
Other income		 497,193 938,516 238,994 495,595
Selling and distribution expenses		 (11,895,155) (11,676,589) (10,420,031) (10,305,121)
Administrative expenses		 (8,949,023) (9,235,823) (7,832,651) (7,954,487)
Net reversal on impairment
 on financial instruments 353,175 100,799 391,027 167,399
Share of results of associate		 (343,692) (412,909) – –
Finance costs 19 (963,544) (992,202) (924,519) (963,900)
Profit/(loss) before tax 20 1,109,522 (2,472,206) 105,488 (2,322,195)
Income tax (expense)/credit 21 (15,181) 253,979 (15,181) 255,147
Profit/(loss) for the financial year		 1,094,341 (2,218,227) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Other comprehensive income/(loss),
 net of tax, items that may be
 reclassified subsequently to
 profit or loss					
Translation reserves of foreign
 operation 2,039 (41,237) – –  
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 for the financial year		 1,096,380 (2,259,464) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year
 attributable to:					
Owners of the Company		 1,095,342 (2,220,880) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Non-controlling interests		 (1,001) 2,653 – –
		 1,094,341 (2,218,227) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 attributable to:					
Owners of the Company		 1,097,381 (2,262,117) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Non-controlling interests		 (1,001) 2,653 – –
		 1,096,380 (2,259,464) 90,307 (2,067,048)
Earning/(loss) per ordinary
 share (sen) 22				
- basic		 1.46 (2.97)
- diluted		 1.46 (2.97)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 41
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
Attributable to owners of the Company
					
Non-
Share Accumulated Translation Shareholders’ controlling Total
capital losses reserves equity interests equity
Group RM RM RM RM RM RM
At 1 January 2019 29,933,308 (5,534,598) 353,835 24,752,545 4,710 24,757,255
Total comprehensive loss
 for the financial year –   (2,220,880) (41,237) (2,262,117) 2,653 (2,259,464)
At 31 December 2019 29,933,308 (7,755,478) 312,598 22,490,428 7,363 22,497,791
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year – 1,095,342 2,039 1,097,381 (1,001) 1,096,380
At 31 December 2020 29,933,308 (6,660,136) 314,637 23,587,809 6,362 23,594,171
Attributable to owners
of the Company
			 Share Accumulated Total
			 capital losses equity
Company			 RM RM RM
At 1 January 2019			 29,933,308 (66,643) 29,866,665
Total comprehensive loss
 for the financial year –   (2,067,048) (2,067,048)
At 31 December 2019			 29,933,308 (2,133,691) 27,799,617
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year –   90,307 90,307
At 31 December 2020			 29,933,308 (2,043,384) 27,889,924
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
42
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
Group Company
		2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 Profit/(loss) before tax 1,109,522 (2,472,206) 105,488 (2,322,195)
					
Adjustments for:					
 Impairment loss for:
 - trade receivables 918,856 810,958 871,037 769,211
 - amount owing by subsidiaries – – 4,815 9,298
 - investment in subsidiaries – – 13,404 –
 Reversal of impairment loss for:
 - trade receivables (1,270,575) (911,757) (1,261,513) (867,390)
 - amount owing by subsidiaries –    – (5,367) (78,518)
 - investment in associate (341,653) (454,146) – –
 Income on financial assets
  measured at amortised costs – (44,842) – (44,842)
 Bad debts recovered (1,458) – – –  
 Depreciation of:
 - property, plant and equipment 1,989,095 1,965,891 1,694,272 1,658,414
 - right-of-use assets 448,652 296,528 396,606 257,684
 Income from other investment (20) (43) (20) (43)
 Interest income (75,555) (307,428) (144,371) (307,428)
 Interest expenses 963,544 992,202 924,519 963,900
 Property, plant and equipment
  written off 3,343 1,954 3,274 1,954
 Loss/(gain) on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment 13,578 (2,715) 13,578 (199)
 Share of results of associate 343,692 412,909 – –
 Net loss/(gain) on unrealised
  foreign exchange 12,581 (30,719) 12,581 (30,719)
Operating cash flows before
 changes in working capital		 4,113,602 256,586 2,628,303 9,127
Changes in working capital:
 Inventories (1,031,692) (189,651) (365,942) (273,753)
 Receivables 1,253,547 (4,103,836) 1,280,368 (3,263,127)
 Prepayments (11,369) (100,146) 7,783 (89,183)
 Payables 232,534 1,244,143 56,353 14,286
Net cash flows generated from/
 (used in) operations		 4,556,622 (2,892,904) 3,606,865 (3,602,650)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 43
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
(Continued)
Group Company
		2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Net cash flows generated from/
 (used in) operations		 4,556,622 (2,892,904) 3,606,865 (3,602,650)
Interest paid 		 (840,007) (894,545) (817,693) (877,467)
Tax paid		 (330,000) (429,750) (330,000) (429,750)
Tax refunded		 – 495,418 – 494,397
Net cash flows generated from/
 (used in) operating activities		 3,386,615 (3,721,781) 2,459,172 (4,415,470)
					
INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchase of property, plant and
 equipment and right-of-use assets (a) (7,903,424) (1,330,657) (7,782,446) (1,252,858)
Proceeds from disposal of property, 					
 plant and equipment 4,041 76,249 4,041 73,249
Interest received		 75,555 307,428 144,371 307,428
Repayment from subsidiaries		 – – 553,026 588,417
Proceeds from disposal of other
 investment 1,447 – 1,447 –
Net cash flows used in investing
 activities		 (7,822,381) (946,980) (7,079,561) (283,764)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 Repayment of short term
  borrowings (b) (85,071,153) (72,788,682) (85,071,153) (72,788,682)
 Drawdown of short term
  borrowings (b) 88,891,447 74,254,682 88,891,447 74,254,682
 Payment of lease liabilities (b) (574,352) (379,970) (491,064) (324,790)
 Interest paid (123,537) (97,657) (106,826) (86,433)
Net cash flows generated from
 financing activities		 3,122,405 988,373 3,222,404 1,054,777
NET CHANGE IN CASH AND
 CASH EQUIVALENTS		 (1,313,361) (3,680,388) (1,397,985) (3,644,457)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 AT BEGINNING OF THE
 FINANCIAL YEAR		 5,809,169 9,489,557 5,444,866 9,089,323
Effects of the exchange rate changes
 on cash and cash equivalents – – – –
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT
 END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 12 4,495,808 5,809,169 4,046,881 5,444,866
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
44
(a) During the financial year, the Group and the Company made the following cash payments for the purchase of
property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets:
Group Company
		2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
Purchase of property, plant and		 9,139,102 2,023,226 9,018,124 1,709,039
 equipment and right-of-use assets
Financed by lease arrangement (1,235,678) (692,569) (1,235,678) (456,181)
Cash payments on purchase of property,
 plant and equipment and right-of-use
 assets 7,903,424 1,330,657 7,782,446 1,252,858
(b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities:
			 At		 Non-cash At
			 1 January Cash Acquisition/ 31 December
			2020 Flows Derecognition 2020
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 6 1,640,958 (574,352) 874,829 1,941,435
Bankers’ acceptance 16 11,963,000 3,820,294 – 15,783,294
			 13,603,958 3,245,942 874,829 17,724,729
Company
Lease liabilities 6 1,371,954 (491,064) 874,829 1,755,719
Bankers’ acceptance 16 11,963,000 3,820,294 – 15,783,294
			 13,334,954 3,329,230 874,829 17,539,013
			
Previously		
Adjusted 			
			 Reported at Effect of Balance at			 At
			 1 January Adoption of 1 January Cash Non-Cash 31 December
			2019 MFRS 16 2019 Flows Acquisition 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 6 795,723 532,636 1,328,359 (379,970) 692,569 1,640,958
Bankers’ acceptance 16 10,497,000 – 10,497,000 1,466,000 – 11,963,000
			 11,292,723 532,636 11,825,359 1,086,030 692,569 13,603,958
Company
Lease liabilities 6 707,927 532,636 1,240,563 (324,790) 456,181 1,371,954
Bankers’ acceptance 16 10,497,000 – 10,497,000 1,466,000 – 11,963,000
			 11,204,927 532,636 11,737,563 1,141,210 456,181 13,334,954
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 45
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
Hwa Tai Industries Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled
in Malaysia and listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The registered office and the
principal place of business of the Company are both located at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim.
The principal activities of the Company are that of a biscuit manufacturer and investment holding. The
principal activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these principal activities during the financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution
of the directors on 12 April 2021.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
2.1 Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), the International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs
The Group and the Company have adopted the following amendments/improvements to MFRSs for the
current financial year:
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs
MFRS 3 Business Combinations
MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
MFRS 9 Financial Instruments
MFRS 16 Leases*
MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements
MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Error
MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
* Early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16 Leases issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards
Board (“MASB”) on 5 June 2020.
The adoption of the above amendments/improvements to MFRSs did not have any significant effect on
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and did not result in significant changes to
the Group’s and the Company’s existing accounting policies, except for those as discussed below.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
46
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs (Continued)
Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations
The amendments clarify the definition of a business with the objective of assisting entities to determine
whether a transaction should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition.
The distinction is important because an acquirer does not recognise goodwill in an asset acquisition.
Amendments to MFRS 3 clarify that to be considered a business, an acquired set of activities and assets
must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute
to the ability to create outputs. The amendments also add an optional concentration test that permits
a simplified assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and assets is not a business. The
amendments are applied prospectively to all business combinations and asset acquisitions for which
the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2020.
Amendment to MFRS 16 Leases
The Group and the Company have early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16 that exempts lessees
from having to consider individual lease contracts to determine whether rent concessions occurring as
a direct consequence of the Coronavirus Disease (“COVID-19”) pandemic are lease modifications and
allows lessees to account for such rent concessions as if they were not lease modifications. It applies
to COVID-19-related rent concessions that reduce lease payments due on or before 30 June 2021.
The Group and the Company elected the practical expedient not to assess whether a rent concession
received from landlord is a lease modification.
2.3 New MFRSs and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new MFRSs and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs, that have been issued, but yet to be effective:
		 Effective for
financial periods
beginning on or after
New MFRS
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs
MFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting 1 January 2022^/
		 Standards		 1 January 2023#
MFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021/
1 January 2023
MFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 1 January 2023#
		 Operations
MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2021/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2021/
1 January 2022^/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred
MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2023#
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 47
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRSs and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(Continued)
The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new MFRSs and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs, that have been issued, but yet to be effective: (Continued)
		 Effective for
financial periods
beginning on or after
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs (Continued)
MFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2021/
1 January 2022^
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2023/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 107 Statements of Cash Flows 1 January 2023#
MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 1 January 2023
		 Errors
MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 119 Employee Benefits 1 January 2023#
MFRS 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Deferred/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 132 Financial instruments: Presentation 1 January 2023#
MFRS 136 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2023#
MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 138 Intangible Assets 1 January 2023#
MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 1 January 2021
MFRS 140 Investment Property 1 January 2023#
MFRS 141 Agriculture 1 January 2022^
^ The Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020
# Amendments as to the consequence of effective of MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
(a) The Group and the Company plan to adopt the above applicable new MFRS and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs when they become effective. A brief discussion on the above significant new
MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs are summarised below.
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018–2020
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018–2020 covers amendments to:
• MFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards – simplifies the
application of MFRS 1 by a subsidiary that becomes a first-time adopter after its parent in relation
to the measurement of cumulative translation differences.
• MFRS 9 Financial Instruments – clarifies the fees an entity includes when assessing whether
the terms of a new or modified financial liability are substantially different from the terms of the
original financial liability.
• Illustrative Examples accompanying MFRS 16 Leases – deletes from Illustrative Example 13 the
reimbursement relating to leasehold improvements in order to remove any potential confusion
regarding the treatment of lease incentives.
• MFRS 141 Agriculture – removes a requirement to exclude cash flows from taxation when
measuring fair value thereby aligning the fair value measurement requirements in MFRS 141 with
those in other MFRS Standards.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
48
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRSs and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(Continued)
Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations
The amendments update MFRS 3 by replacing a reference to an old version of the Conceptual
Framework for Financial Reporting with a reference to the latest version which was issued by MASB in
April 2018.
Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investments in Associates
and Joint Ventures
These amendments address an acknowledged inconsistency between the requirements in MFRS 10
and those in MFRS 128, in dealing with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its
associate or joint venture.
The main consequence of the amendments is that a full gain or loss is recognised when a transaction
involves a business, as defined in MFRS 3. A partial gain or loss is recognised when a transaction
involves assets that do not constitute a business.
Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments, MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement, MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, and MFRS 16
Leases
The Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2 amends some specific requirements in MFRS 9, MFRS
139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16, with respect to issues that affect financial reporting during the
reform of an interest rate benchmark.
The amendments provide a practical expedient whereby an entity would not derecognise or adjust the
carrying amount of financial instruments for modifications required by interest rate benchmark reform,
but would instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmark.
On hedging relationship, entities would be required to amend the formal designation of a hedging
relationship to reflect the modifications and/or changes made to the hedged item and/or hedging
instruments as a result of the reform. However, the modification does not constitute discontinuation of
the hedging relationship nor the designation of a new hedging relationship.
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements
The amendments include specifying that an entity’s right to defer settlement of a liability for at least
twelve months after the reporting period must have substance and must exist at the end of the reporting
period; clarifying that classification of liability is unaffected by the likelihood of the entity to exercise its
right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period; clarifying
how lending conditions affect classification of a liability; and clarifying requirements for classifying
liabilities an entity will or may settle by issuing its own equity instruments.
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment
The amendments prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of property, plant and equipment
amounts received from selling items produced while the entity is preparing the asset for its intended
use. Instead, an entity shall recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or loss.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 49
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRSs and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(Continued)
Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
The amendments specify which costs an entity includes in determining the cost of fulfilling a contract
for the purpose of assessing whether the contract is onerous.
2.4 Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
currency.
2.5 Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost
basis, except as otherwise disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2.6 Use of estimates and judgement
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of the revenue and expenses during the reported period. It also requires directors to exercise
their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although
these estimates and judgements are based on the directors’ best knowledge of current events and
actions, actual results may differ.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and
estimates are significant to the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements are disclosed in Note
4 to the financial statements.
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Unless otherwise stated, the following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the financial
years presented in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
3.1 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The financial statements of the subsidiaries and associate used in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company.
Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
50
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination
Subsidiaries are entities (including structure entities) over which the Group is exposed, or has
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the acquirees and has the ability to affect
those returns through its power over the acquirees.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date the Group obtains control of the acquirees until the date the Group loses control of
the acquirees.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations from the
acquisition date.
For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred, calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date
fair value of assets transferred (including contingent consideration), the liabilities incurred
to former owners of the acquiree and the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any
amounts that relate to pre-existing relationships or other arrangements before or during
the negotiations for the business combination, that are not part of the exchange for the
acquiree, will be excluded from the business combination accounting and be accounted
for separately; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date
(the choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis); plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the
previously held equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities (including contingent
liabilities) assumed at the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss
at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the Group remeasures the previously held equity
interest in the acquiree to its acquisition-date fair value, and recognises the resulting gain or loss,
if any, in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date
that have been previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings on the same basis as would be required if the
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
in which the business combination occurs, the Group uses provisional fair value amounts for the
items for which the accounting is incomplete. The provisional amounts are adjusted to reflect
new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date,
including additional assets or liabilities identified in the measurement period. The measurement
period for completion of the initial accounting ends as soon as the Group receives the information
it was seeking about facts and circumstances or learns that more information is not obtainable,
subject to the measurement period not exceeding one year from the acquisition date.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 51
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Continued)
Upon the loss of control of subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
the former subsidiary from the consolidated statements of financial position. Any gain or loss
arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently, it is accounted for as an associate or a financial asset.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between the Group’s share of net assets
before and after the change, and the fair value of the consideration received or paid, is recognised
directly in equity.
(b) Non-controlling interest
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly,
to owners of the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated statements of
financial position within equity.
Losses attributable to the non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests
even if the losses exceed the non-controlling interests.
(c) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, to the
financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the
equity method.
Under the equity method, the investments in associates are initially recognised at cost. The
cost of investment includes transaction costs. Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of
that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition of
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made
payments on behalf of the associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest
in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value
and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. Any difference
between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value
of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not remeasured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease
in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other
comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or
loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
liabilities.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
52
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(d) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of
impairment.
3.2 Separate financial statements
In the Company’s statement of financial position, investment in subsidiaries and associate are
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held
for sale or distribution. The cost of investment includes transaction costs. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment losses shall be applied on the same basis as could be required for
impairment of non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 3.9(b) to the financial statements.
Contributions to subsidiaries are amounts which the settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur
in the foreseeable future is, in substance considered as part of the Company’s investment in the
subsidiaries.
3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations
(a) Translation of foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities at the exchange rates prevailing at the transactions dates.
At the end of each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined. Non-monetary
items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the
historical rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary items are
recognised in profit or loss except for monetary item that are designated as a hedging instrument
in either a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. When
settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss
in the separate financial statements of the parent company or the individual financial statements
of the foreign operation. In the consolidated financial statements, the exchange differences are
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised initially
in other comprehensive income until its disposal, at which time, the cumulative amount is
reclassified to profit or loss.
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in
line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income
or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations (Continued)
(b) Translation of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations denominated in the functional currency different
from the presentation currency, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
acquisition, are translated into the presentation currency at exchange rates prevailing at the
reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates
at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests.
When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control
is lost, the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserves related to that foreign
operation is reclassified to profit or loss. For a partial disposal not involving loss of control of
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of cumulative amount
in foreign exchange translation reserve is reattributed to non-controlling interests. For partial
disposalsofassociatesthatdonotresultintheGrouplosingsignificantinfluence,theproportionate
share of the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserve is reclassified to profit or
loss.
3.4 Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the
Group and the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instruments.
Except for the trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the
Group and the Company has applied the practical expedient, the financial instruments are recognised
initially at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
financial asset and financial liability. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through
profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing
component or for which the Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient are measured
at the transaction price determined under MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract and accounted for as a
derivative if, and only if, it is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host
contract; it is a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the
definition of a derivative; and the hybrid contract is not measured as fair value through profit or loss.
The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with the policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
A derivative embedded within a hybrid contract containing a financial asset host is not accounted for
separately. The financial asset host together with the embedded derivative is required to be classified
in its entirety as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
54
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(a) Subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows:
(i) Financial assets
For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four
categories:
• Financial assets at amortised cost
• Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income with recycling of
cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive income with
no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing the financial
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial assets.
The Group and the Company reclassify financial assets when and only when their business
model for managing those assets change.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are three measurement categories into which the Group and the Company classifies
their debt instruments:
• Amortised cost
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those
cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at
amortised cost. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured
using the effective interest method and are subject to impairment. The policy for
the recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note
3.9(a) to the financial statements. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the financial asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
• Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for
selling the financial assets, and the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments
of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. For debt instruments at FVOCI,
interest income, foreign exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals
are recognised in profit or loss and computed in the same manner as for financial
assets measured at amortised cost. The remaining fair value changes are recognised
in other comprehensive income. The policy for the recognition and measurement of
impairment losses is in accordance with Note 3.9(a) to the financial statements. Upon
derecognition, the cumulative fair value change recognised in other comprehensive
income is recycled to profit or loss.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 55
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Continued)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Continued):
(i) Financial assets (Continued)
Debt instruments (Continued)
• Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL)
Financial assets at FVPL include financial assets held for trading, financial assets
designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial
assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are
classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or
repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives,
are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging
instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of
principal and interest are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss,
irrespective of the business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments
to be classified at amortised cost or at FVOCI, as described above, debt instruments
may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so
eliminates, or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statements of
financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the profit
or loss.
Equity instruments
The Group and the Company subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value.
Upon initial recognition, the Group and the Company can make an irrevocable election to
classify its equity investments that is not held for trading as equity instruments designated
at FVOCI. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are not recycled to profit or loss. Dividends
are recognised as other income in the profit or loss when the right of payment has been
established, except when the Group and the Company benefit from such proceeds as a
recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded
in other comprehensive income. Equity instruments designated at FVOCI are not subject to
impairment assessment.
(ii) Financial liabilities
The Group and the Company classify their financial liabilities in the following measurement
categories:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
56
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Continued)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Continued):
(ii) Financial liabilities (Continued)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for
trading, including derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract
or a designated and effective hedging instrument) or financial liabilities designated into
this category upon initial recognition.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are
measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss
are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in MFRS 9 Financial
Instruments are satisfied. The Group and the Company have not designated any financial
liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
through the amortisation process.
(b) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, net of transaction
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined
in accordance with Section 5.5 of MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised, when appropriate,
the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of MFRS 15.
(c) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
convention in the marketplace concerned.
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as
applicable, using trade date accounting (i.e. the date the Group and the Company commit
themselves purchase or sell an asset).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 57
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(c) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets (Continued)
Trade date accounting refers to:
(i) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and
(ii) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and corresponding liability until the
settlement date when title passes.
(d) Derecognition
A financial asset or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when:
(i) the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or
(ii) the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from
the asset or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without
material delay to a third party; and either (a) the Group and the Company have transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group and the Company have
neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but
have transferred control of the asset.
The Group and the Company evaluate if, and to what extent, they have retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset
and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that
the Group and the Company have retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is
measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of
consideration that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount (measured at
the date of derecognition) and the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less
any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash
assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
58
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(e) Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the
statements of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity
shall not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability.
3.5 Property, plant and equipment
(a) Recognition and measurement
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment
losses is in accordance with Note 3.9(b) to the financial statements.
Cost of assets includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
and any other costs that are directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on
which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes cost of materials, direct
labour, and any other direct attributable costs but excludes internal profits. For qualifying assets,
borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs in
Note 3.14 to the financial statements.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as
part of that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives,
they are accounted for as a separate items of property, plant and equipment.
(b) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a part of an item of property, plant and equipment, is included in the asset’s
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that
the future economic benefits associated with the part will flow to the Group or the Company and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All
other repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit or loss as incurred.
(c) Depreciation
Freehold land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not depreciated. Assets under
construction included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as these assets are
not yet available for use.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 59
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.5 Property, plant and equipment (Continued)
(c) Depreciation (Continued)
All other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on straight-line basis by allocating their
depreciable amounts over their remaining useful lives.
Leasehold buildings 1% - 10%
Renovation 10%
Plant and machinery 5% - 33%
Office equipment, furniture and fittings and motor vehicles 10% - 20%
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and adjusted as appropriate.
(d) Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset is recognised in profit or loss.
3.6 Leases
(a) Definition of lease
At inception of a contract, the Group and the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains,
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the Company assess
whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
• the Group and the Company have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic
benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group and the Company have the right to direct the use of the asset.
(b) Lessee accounting
At the lease commencement date, the Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset
and a lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-
term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value
assets.
The Group and the Company present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate lines in
the statements of financial position.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
60
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(b) Lessee accounting (Continued)
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying
asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses, and adjust for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. The
right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to
the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. If the
Group and the Company expect to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated
over the useful life of the underlying asset. The depreciation starts from the commencement date
of the underlying asset. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment losses is
in accordance with Note 3.9(b) to the financial statements.
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
be readily determined, the Group and the Company use their weighted average incremental
borrowing rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index
or rate at the commencement date;
• the amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
• the exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that
option; and
• payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee
exercising an option to terminate the lease.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 61
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(b) Lessee accounting (Continued)
Lease liability (Continued)
The Group and the Company remeasure the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment
to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a
purchase option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised
lease payments using a revised discount rate.
• the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected
payment under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured
by discounting the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease
payments change is due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised
discount rate is used).
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate
lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are not included in the
measurement the lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised
as an expense in the period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs
and are included in the line “other expenses” in the statements of comprehensive income.
The Group and the Company have elected not to separate non-lease components and account for
the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits
from the leased asset are consumed.
(c) Lessor accounting
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership. All other leases that do not meet this criterion are classified as operating
leases.
When the Group and the Company are intermediate lessors, they account for the head lease and
the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating
lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. If a head lease is a short-
term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described in Note 3.6(a) to the financial
statements, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in a finance lease, it derecognises the underlying asset and
recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance
income is recognised in profit or loss based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of
return on the lessor’s net investment in the finance lease.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
62
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(c) Lessor accounting (Continued)
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in an operating lease, the underlying asset is not derecognised
but is presented in the statements of financial position according to the nature of the asset.
Lease income from operating leases is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over
the lease term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in
which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.
When a contract includes lease and non-lease components, the Group and the Company apply
MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration under the contract to each component.
3.7 Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as
follows:
• raw materials, packing materials and consumables: purchase costs on a first-in first-out basis.
• finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials, direct labour and a proportion of
manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity. These costs are assigned on a
standard costing basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
3.8 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand,
bank balances and deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible
to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and
cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
3.9 Impairment of assets
(a) Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets measured at FVOCI, lease
receivables and financial guarantee contracts will be subject to the impairment requirement in
MFRS 9 which is related to the accounting for expected credit losses on the financial assets.
Expected credit loss is the weighted average of credit losses with the respective risks of a default
occurring as the weights.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit loss, except for the following, which are measured as 12-month expected credit loss:
• debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date; and
• other debt securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. risk of default occurring
over the expected life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since
initial recognition.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 63
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Continued)
For trade receivables and lease receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified
approach permitted by MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit losses.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the Company consider
reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or
effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the
Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and including
forward-looking information.
The Group and the Company assume that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
significantly if it is more than 30 days past due.
The Group and the Company consider a financial asset to be in default when:
• the borrower is unable to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full,
without taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group and the Company;
or
• the contractual payment of the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the
Group and the Company have reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that
a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
12-month expected credit losses are the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent
the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are
possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value
of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the
difference between the cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial assets.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
64
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Continued)
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried
at amortised cost and debt securities at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-
impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash
flows of that financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired
include observable data about the following events:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
• a breach of contract, such as a default of past due event;
• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would
not otherwise consider; or
• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation.
The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) shall be recognised in profit or loss, as an
impairment gain or loss. For financial assets measured at FVOCI, the loss allowance shall be
recognised in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying amount of the
financial asset in the statements of financial position.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the
extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
and the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or source of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial
assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with
the Group’s and the Company’s procedure for recovery of amounts due.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets)
are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group and the Company make an estimate of the
asset’s recoverable amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of non-financial assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”).
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. In determining the fair value less
costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceed its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 65
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets (Continued)
For other assets, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have
decreased. An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates
used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the asset’s carrying amount that would have been
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is
recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is measured at revalued amount, in which case the
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
3.10 Share capital
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary shares are equity instruments. An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are recorded at
the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction costs. Dividends on ordinary
shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
3.11 Employee benefits
(a) Short-term employee benefits
Short-termemployeebenefitobligationsinrespectofwages,salaries,socialsecuritycontributions,
annual bonuses, paid annual leave, sick leave and non-monetary benefits are recognised as an
expense in the financial year where the employees have rendered their services to the Group and
the Company.
(b) Defined contribution plans
As required by law, the Group and the Company contribute to the Employees Provident Fund
(“EPF”), the national defined contribution plan. Such contributions are recognised as an expense
in the profit or loss in the period in which the employees rendered their services.
3.12 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation (legal or
constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions that are determined based on the expected
future cash flows to settle the obligation are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. When discounting
is used, the increase in the provisions due to passage of time is recognised as finance costs.
Provisions are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is
no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, the
provision is reversed.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
66
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.13 Revenue and other income
The Group and the Company recognise revenue that depict the transfer of promised goods or services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group and the Company expect
to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Group and the Company measure revenue at its transaction price, being the amount of consideration
to which the Group and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised good
or service to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties, adjusted for the effects
of any variable consideration, constraining estimates of variable consideration, significant financing
components, non-cash consideration and consideration payable to customer. If the transaction price
includes variable consideration, the Group and the Company use the expected value method by
estimating the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a range or possible consideration amounts, or
the most likely outcome method, depending on which method the Group and the Company expect to
better predict the amount of consideration to which it is entitled.
Financing components
The Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient for not to adjust the promised amount
of consideration for the effects of a significant financing components if the Group and the Company
expect that the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and
payment by the customer will be one year or less.
(a) Sale of manufactured goods
The Group manufactured and sells a range of biscuits and cakes products to local and foreign
customers. Revenue from sale of manufactured goods are recognised at a point in time when
control of the products has been transferred, being when the customers accepts the delivery of
goods.
Sales are made within a credit term of 7 to 90 days, therefore, no element of financing is deemed
present. A receivable is recognised when the customer accepts the delivery of the goods as the
consideration is unconditional other than the passage of time before the payment is due.
Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the volume rebate and
returns where applicable.
The Group’s customary business practice is to allow a customer to return any defected and
expired products and receive a full refund.
A contract liability is recognised for expected volume rebates payable to customers and for
products expected to be returned from customers in relation to sales made until the end of the
reporting period.
(b) Rental income
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The aggregate
cost of incentives provided to lessees are recognised as a reduction of rental income over the
lease term on a straight-line basis.
(c) Interest income
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 67
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.14 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are interests and other costs that the Group and the Company incur in connection with
borrowing of funds.
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The Group and the Company begin capitalising borrowing costs when the Group and the Company have
incurred the expenditures for the asset, incurred related borrowing costs and undertaken activities that
are necessary to prepare the asset for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
3.15 Income tax
Income tax expense in profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax
are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items
recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
(a) Current tax
Current tax is the expected taxes payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the
financial year, using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of
the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting
date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the statements
of financial position. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences,
unutilised tax losses and unused tax credits, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and
unused tax credits can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
assets and liabilities in a transaction which is not a business combination and that affects neither
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised
if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the
reversal timing of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary
differences associated with such investment is only recognised to the extent that it is probable
that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary
differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
68
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.15 Income tax (Continued)
(b) Deferred tax (Continued)
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the
benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right
to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but
they intend to settle their income tax recoverable and income tax payable on a net basis or their
tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
(c) Sales and services tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of amount of sales and services tax except:
• where the sales and services tax incurred in a purchase of assets or services is not
recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales and services tax is
recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as
applicable; and
• receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales and services tax included.
The net amount of sales and services tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority
is included as part of receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
3.16 Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS
is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares
held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 69
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.17 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker. The Group Chief Executive Director, who is responsible for allocating
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief
operating decision maker that makes strategic decisions.
3.18 Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a
principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable
market data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy
based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
Group and the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
There were no transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change
in circumstances.
3.19 Contingencies
A contingent liability or asset is a possible obligation or asset that arises from past events and whose
existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) not
wholly within the control of the Group and of the Company.
Contingent liability is also referred as a present obligation that arises from past events but is not
recognised because:
(a) it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation; or
(b) the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Contingent liabilities and assets are not recognised in the statements of financial position.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
70
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.20 Contract assets/(liabilities)
Contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the
customers when that right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time (for example,
the Company’s future performance).
The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note 3.9(a)
to the financial statements.
Contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to customer for which the Group and the
Company has received the consideration or has billed the customers.
Under MFRS 15, revenue is accounted for as a variable consideration. The Group and the Company
provide volume rebates to certain customers once the quantity of products purchased during the
period exceeds a threshold specified in the contract. Therefore, rebate liabilities for the expected future
rebates are recognised.
The Group and the Company also provide expected future returns to customers for their purchases.
Therefore, return liabilities for the expected future returns relating to right of return product from the
customer are recognised.
Revenue is adjusted for the value of the expected future rebates and corresponding goods expected to
be returned.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have
significant effect in determining the amount recognised in the financial year include the following:
(a) Trade receivables
The impairment provisions for trade receivables are based on assumptions about risk of default and
expected loss rate. The Group and the Company use judgement in making these assumptions and
selecting inputs to the impairment based on the Group’s and the Company’s past history and forward-
looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
The Group and the Company uses a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (“ECL”) for
trade receivables. The provision rates are depending on the number of days that a trade receivable is
past due.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience
with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forward-looking estimates
and expected credit losses is a significant estimate. The amount of expected credit loss is sensitive
to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions over the expected lives of trade
receivables. The Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 71
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONTINUED)
(a) Trade receivables (Continued)
The information about the impairment losses on the Group’s and the Company’s trade receivables are
disclosed in Note 26(b) to the financial statements.
(b) Investment in subsidiaries
The Company assesses whether there is any indication that the cost of investment in subsidiaries is
impaired at the end of each reporting date. Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount
of an asset with its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is measured at the higher of the fair
value less cost to sell for that asset and its value-in-use. The value-in-use is the net present value of the
projected future cash flows derived from the subsidiary discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Projected future cash flows are based on the Company’s estimates calculated based on the operating
results, approved business plans, sector and industry trends as well as future economic conditions,
changes in technology and other available information.
The carrying amount of the investment in subsidiariesare disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
72
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Group Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2020		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 12,259,816 37,887,086 3,645,697 766,470 998,557 391,885 55,949,511
Additions 383,768 592,474 85,520 2,980 – 6,765,479 7,830,221
Disposals/written-offs – (409,743) (91,813) – – (1,153) (502,709)
Reclassification 252,587 3,679 – – – (256,266) –
Reclassification from
 right-of-use asset – 128,465 – – – – 128,465
At 31 December 2020 12,896,171 38,201,961 3,639,404 769,450 998,557 6,899,945 63,405,488
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2020
 Accumulated depreciation 6,329,771 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 – 44,101,711
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
		 6,409,298 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 – 44,181,238
Depreciation for the financial year 621,722 1,208,632 88,547 20,913 49,281 – 1,989,095
Disposals/written-offs – (392,192) (89,555) – – – (481,747)
Reclassification from
 right-of-use asset – 40,744 – – – – 40,744
							
 Accumulated depreciation 6,951,493 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 –   45,649,803
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
							
At 31 December 2020 7,031,020 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 – 45,729,330
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020 5,850,518 4,933,952 332,662 131,836 127,420 391,885 11,768,273
At 31 December 2020 5,865,151 4,391,643 327,377 113,903 78,139 6,899,945 17,676,158
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 73
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Group Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2019		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported 12,010,111 37,977,094 3,606,626 728,670 1,552,643 661,584 56,536,728
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16 (250,000) (735,581) – – (476,586) – (1,462,167)
Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 11,760,111 37,241,513 3,606,626 728,670 1,076,057 661,584 55,074,561
Additions 378,583 278,731 129,689 37,800 – 391,885 1,216,688
Disposals/written-offs – (173,620) (90,618) – (77,500) – (341,738)
Reclassification 121,122 540,462 – –    – (661,584) –   
At 31 December 2019 12,259,816 37,887,086 3,645,697 766,470 998,557 391,885 55,949,511
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported							
 Accumulated depreciation 5,792,112 31,958,891 3,310,866 612,072 902,372 – 42,576,313
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16							
 Accumulated depreciation (35,425) (80,052) – – (58,766) – (174,243)
- Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019							
 Accumulated depreciation 5,756,687 31,878,839 3,310,866 612,072 843,606 – 42,402,070
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
Depreciation for the financial year 573,084 1,224,709 91,089 22,562 54,447 –   1,965,891
Disposals/written-offs – (150,414) (88,920) – (26,916) – (266,250)
 Accumulated depreciation 6,329,771 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 – 44,101,711
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
At 31 December 2019 6,409,298 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 – 44,181,238
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 (Adjusted) 5,923,897 5,362,674 295,760 116,598 232,451 661,584 12,592,964
At 31 December 2019 5,850,518 4,933,952 332,662 131,836 127,420 391,885 11,768,273
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
74
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			 Freehold
Group		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2020			RM RM RM RM
				
Cost 			
At 1 January 2020		 132,515 7,481,963 4,645,338 12,259,816
Additions		 – – 383,768 383,768
Reclassification – – 252,587 252,587
At 31 December 2020		 132,515 7,481,963 5,281,693 12,896,171
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2020				
 Accumulated depreciation – 4,436,327 1,893,444 6,329,771
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 – 79,527
			 – 4,515,854 1,893,444 6,409,298
Depreciation for the financial year – 160,599 461,123 621,722
 Accumulated depreciation – 4,596,926 2,354,567 6,951,493
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 – 79,527
At 31 December 2020		 – 4,676,453 2,354,567 7,031,020
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020		 132,515 2,966,109 2,751,894 5,850,518
At 31 December 2020		 132,515 2,805,510 2,927,126 5,865,151
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 75
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			
Freehold			
Group		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2019			RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported		 132,515 7,731,963 4,145,633 12,010,111
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16		 – (250,000) – (250,000)
Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 132,515 7,481,963 4,145,633 11,760,111
Additions		 – – 378,583 378,583
Reclassification – – 121,122 121,122
At 31 December 2019		 132,515 7,481,963 4,645,338 12,259,816
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2019				
- As previously reported				
 Accumulated depreciation		 – 4,311,154 1,480,958 5,792,112
 Accumulated impairment loss		 – 79,527 – 79,527
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16				
 Accumulated depreciation		 – (35,425) – (35,425)
- Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019				
 Accumulated depreciation 		 – 4,275,729 1,480,958 5,756,687
 Accumulated impairment loss 		 – 79,527 – 79,527
Depreciation for the financial year – 160,598 412,486 573,084
 Accumulated depreciation		 – 4,436,327 1,893,444 6,329,771
 Accumulated impairment loss		 – 79,527 – 79,527
At 31 December 2019		 – 4,515,854 1,893,444 6,409,298
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 (Adjusted) 132,515 3,126,707 2,664,675 5,923,897
At 31 December 2019		 132,515 2,966,109 2,751,894 5,850,518
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
76
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Company Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2020		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 10,847,479 34,963,136 3,114,903 711,116 699,379 391,885 50,727,898
Additions 383,768 586,386 82,370 2,980 – 6,653,739 7,709,243
Disposals/written-offs – (409,743) (77,619) – – (1,153) (488,515)
Reclassification 252,587 3,679 – – – (256,266) –
Reclassification from
 right-of-use asset – 128,465 – – – – 128,465
At 31 December 2020 11,483,834 35,271,923 3,119,654 714,096 699,379 6,788,205 58,077,091
Accumulated depreciation
and impairment loss
At 1 January 2020							
 Accumulated depreciation 5,375,008 30,689,421 2,834,802 581,427 571,959 –   40,052,617
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
		 5,454,535 30,689,421 2,834,802 581,427 571,959 – 40,132,144
Depreciation for the financial year 552,452 998,658 73,285 20,596 49,281 – 1,694,272
Disposals/written-offs – (392,192) (75,430) – – – (467,622)
Reclassification from
 right-of-use asset – 40,744 – – – – 40,744
 Accumulated depreciation 5,927,460 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 – 41,320,011
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – –   79,527
At 31 December 2020 6,006,987 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 – 41,399,538
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020 5,392,944 4,273,715 280,101 129,689 127,420 391,885 10,595,754
At 31 December 2020 5,476,847 3,935,292 286,997 112,073 78,139 6,788,205 16,677,553
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 77
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Company Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2019		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported 10,615,971 35,087,860 3,064,546 673,316 1,253,465 448,586 51,143,744
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16 (250,000) (634,519) – – (476,586) – (1,361,105)
Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 10,365,971 34,453,341 3,064,546 673,316 776,879 448,586 49,782,639
Additions 360,386 266,451 98,992 37,800 – 391,885 1,155,514
Disposals/written-offs – (84,120) (48,635) – (77,500) – (210,255)
Reclassification 121,122 327,464 – – – (448,586) –
At 31 December 2019 10,847,479 34,963,136 3,114,903 711,116 699,379 391,885 50,727,898
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2019							
- As previously reported							
 Accumulated depreciation 4,906,162 29,818,571 2,813,221 559,181 603,194 – 38,700,329
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16							
 Accumulated depreciation (35,425) (76,684) – – (58,766) –   (170,875)
- Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019							
 Accumulated depreciation 4,870,737 29,741,887 2,813,221 559,181 544,428 – 38,529,454
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – – – 79,527
Depreciation for the financial year 504,271 1,008,448 69,002 22,246 54,447 – 1,658,414
Disposals/written-offs – (60,914) (47,421) – (26,916) – (135,251)
At 31 December 2019 5,454,535 30,689,421 2,834,802 581,427 571,959 – 40,132,144
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 (Adjusted) 5,415,707 4,711,454 251,325 114,135 232,451 448,586 11,173,658
At 31 December 2019 5,392,944 4,273,715 280,101 129,689 127,420 391,885 10,595,754
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			
Freehold			
			 land Buildings Renovation Total
Company		RM RM RM RM
2020
Cost
At 1 January 2020		 132,515 6,585,010 4,129,954 10,847,479
Additions		 – – 383,768 383,768
Reclassification – – 252,587 252,587
At 31 December 2020		 132,515 6,585,010 4,766,309 11,483,834
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2020				
 Accumulated depreciation – 3,884,493 1,490,515 5,375,008
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 –   79,527
			 – 3,964,020 1,490,515 5,454,535
Depreciation for the financial year – 142,702 409,750 552,452
 Accumulated depreciation – 4,027,195 1,900,265 5,927,460
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 – 79,527
At 31 December 2020		 – 4,106,722 1,900,265 6,006,987
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020		 132,515 2,620,990 2,639,439 5,392,944
At 31 December 2020		 132,515 2,478,288 2,866,044 5,476,847
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 79
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			
Freehold			
			 land Buildings Renovation Total
Company		RM RM RM RM
2019
Cost
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported		 132,515 6,835,010 3,648,446 10,615,971
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16		 – (250,000) – (250,000)
Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019		 132,515 6,585,010 3,648,446 10,365,971
Additions		 – – 360,386 360,386
Reclassification –   – 121,122 121,122
At 31 December 2019		 132,515 6,585,010 4,129,954 10,847,479
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2019
- As previously reported				
 Accumulated depreciation – 3,777,216 1,128,946 4,906,162
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 – 79,527
- Effect of adoption of MFRS 16				
 Accumulated depreciation – (35,425) – (35,425)
- Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019				
 Accumulated depreciation – 3,741,791 1,128,946 4,870,737
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 – 79,527
Depreciation for the financial year – 142,702 361,569 504,271
 Accumulated depreciation – 3,884,493 1,490,515 5,375,008
 Accumulated impairment loss –   79,527 – 79,527
At 31 December 2019		 – 3,964,020 1,490,515 5,454,535
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 (Adjusted) 132,515 2,763,692 2,519,500 5,415,707
At 31 December 2019 132,515 2,620,990 2,639,439 5,392,944
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
6.1 Right-of-use assets
The Group and the Company lease several assets and the information about leases of the Group and
the Company as lessees are presented below:
		 Leasehold		 Plant and Office Motor
		 Land Building Machinery Equipment Vehicles Total
Group		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 1,154,516 532,636 655,529 – 417,820 2,760,501
Additions – – 806,538 – – 806,538
Depreciation (46,159) (111,614) (91,097) – (47,658) (296,528)
							
At 31 December 2019 1,108,357 421,022 1,370,970 – 370,162 3,270,511
Additions – 603,716 497,365 207,800 – 1,308,881
Depreciation (46,160) (149,116) (167,620) (38,097) (47,659) (448,652)
Derecognition – (360,849) – – – (360,849)
Reclassification to property,
plant and equipment – – (87,721) – – (87,721)
At 31 December 2020 1,062,197 514,773 1,612,994 169,703 322,503 3,682,170
Company
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2019 760,350 532,636 557,835 – 417,820 2,268,641
Additions – – 553,525 – – 553,525
Depreciation (29,522) (111,614) (68,890) – (47,658) (257,684)
							
At 31 December 2019 730,828 421,022 1,042,470 – 370,162 2,564,482
Additions – 603,716 497,365 207,800 – 1,308,881
Depreciation (29,522) (149,116) (132,212) (38,097) (47,659) (396,606)
Derecognition – (360,849) – – – (360,849)
Reclassification to property,
plant and equipment – – (87,721) – – (87,721)
At 31 December 2020 701,306 514,773 1,319,902 169,703 322,503 3,028,187
The Group and the Company lease land and buildings for their office space and staff accommodation.
The leases for land, office space and staff accommodation have remaining lease term between 1 to 77
years (2019: 1 to 78 years).
The Group and the Company also have lease for motor vehicle, plant and machinery and office
equipment with a remaining lease term between 1 to 5 years (2019: 1 to 5 years).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 81
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
6.2 Lease liabilities
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Current
Lease liabilities (secured)		 453,024 334,400 379,089 251,111
Lease liabilities (unsecured)		 137,525 95,089 137,525 95,089
			 590,549 429,489 516,614 346,200
Non-current
Lease liabilities (secured)		 955,857 867,371 844,076 681,656
Lease liabilities (unsecured)		 395,029 344,098 395,029 344,098
			 1,350,886 1,211,469 1,239,105 1,025,754
Total lease liabilities		 1,941,435 1,640,958 1,755,719 1,371,954
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Minimum lease payments
- Within one year		 703,126 536,844 618,645 436,848
- Later than one year but not later 				
 than two years 587,711 500,113 535,787 415,632
- Later than two years but not later 				
 than five years 894,388 865,499 824,429 743,617
			 2,185,225 1,902,456 1,978,861 1,596,097
Future interest charges		 (243,790) (261,498) (223,142) (224,143)
Present value of minimum				
lease payments		 1,941,435 1,640,958 1,755,719 1,371,954
Represented by:
Current
- On demand and within one year 590,549 429,489 516,614 346,200
				
Non-current
- Later than one year but not later 				
than two years		 513,762 424,770 468,001 350,836
- Later than two years but not later 				
     than five years 837,124 786,699 771,104 674,918
				
			 1,350,886 1,211,469 1,239,105 1,025,754
			 1,941,435 1,640,958 1,755,719 1,371,954
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
6.2 Lease liabilities (Continued)
Interest rates are fixed at the inception of the lease arrangement. The effective interest rate is 3.00% to
8.18% (2019: 3.00% to 8.93%).
Set out below is the movements of lease liabilities during the financial year:
					
Group Company
					RM RM
				
At 1 January 2019				 1,328,359 1,240,563
Additions				 692,569 456,181
Payments				 (379,970) (324,790)
At 31 December 2019				 1,640,958 1,371,954
Additions				 1,235,678 1,235,678
Interest expenses				 123,537 106,826
Derecognition				 (360,849) (360,849)
Lease payments
- Principal portion				 (574,352) (491,064)
- Interest portion				 (123,537) (106,826)
At 31 December 2020				 1,941,435 1,755,719
7. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
		Company
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Unquoted shares - at cost		 		 12,764,671 12,764,671
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			 (5,827,669) (5,814,265)
					 6,937,002 6,950,406
Details of the subsidiaries which have principal place of business and are all incorporated in Malaysia are as
follows:
Name of Companies Effective ownership
		 interest/voting rights Principal activities
		 2020 2019
		 % %
Epro Industries Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Property holding
Suria Merah Manufactory 100 100 Property holding
 (Segamat) Sdn. Bhd.
Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah) 100 100 Biscuit manufacturer
 Sdn. Bhd.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 83
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
7. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Details of the subsidiaries which have principal place of business and are all incorporated in Malaysia are as
follows: (continued)
Name of Companies Effective ownership
		 interest/voting rights Principal activities
		 2020 2019
		 % %
Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Hwa Tai Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd. 90 90 Trading
Hwa Tai Import Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Hwa Tai (Sarawak) Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Hwa Tai Services Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Absolute Focus Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Held through Acetai Corporation
 Sdn. Bhd.			
Anika Bebas Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Esprit Classic Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
8.		
INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Unquoted shares - at cost		 1,791,457 1,791,457 1,791,457 1,791,457
Share of post acquisition losses (1,791,457) (1,447,765) – –
			 – 343,692 1,791,457 1,791,457
Less: Accumulated impairment losses – (343,692) (1,791,457) (1,791,457)
			 – – – –
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
8.		
INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
Details of the associate which has principal place of business and is incorporated in the People’s Republic of
China are as follows:
Name of Company Issued share
capital
Effective ownership
interest/voting rights
Nature of the relationship
Chinese Renminbi
(RMB)
2020
%
2019
%
Shan Dong Yingerle
 Hwa Tai Food
 Industry Co. Ltd.*
10,500,000 48 48 Dealers, importers and
exporters of biscuit, cake and
baby products. The activities
contribute to the Group’s
manufacturing segment.
* Audited by auditor other than Messrs Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT.
The impairment arose from prolonged decline in value of investment and significant financial difficulty in
associate. Should there be evidence indicating that the performance of the associate is or will be, better than
expected, the Group and the Company will expect a write-back of the impairments.
9. INVENTORIES
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
At cost
Raw materials		 2,597,845 1,948,330 2,003,276 1,522,738
Packing materials		 3,197,656 2,983,079 2,810,960 2,741,426
Work-in-progress		 329,359 378,854 243,651 324,514
Finished goods		 2,948,173 2,713,781 2,440,565 2,512,757
Consumable stores		 185,253 202,550 114,591 145,666
			 9,258,286 8,226,594 7,613,043 7,247,101
The cost of inventories of the Group and of the Company recognised as an expense in cost of sales during
the financial year was RM52,749,991/- (2019: RM46,554,752/-) and RM45,743,643/- (2019: RM40,835,274/-)
respectively.
The cost of inventories of the Group and of the Company recognised as expense in cost of sales during
the financial year in respect of write down of inventories to net realisable value was RM125,917/- (2019:
RM78,562/-).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 85
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Current
Trade receivables
Trade receivables		 27,646,884 28,856,436 22,450,672 23,721,957
Amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – 16,057,689 15,970,141
			 27,646,884 28,856,436 38,508,361 39,692,098
Less: Impairment loss				
- Trade receivables		 (3,162,418) (5,415,092) (2,612,332) (4,903,763)
- Amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – (15,960,812) (15,961,364)
			 (3,162,418) (5,415,092) (18,573,144) (20,865,127)
Trade receivables, net		 24,484,466 23,441,344 19,935,217 18,826,971
Other receivables
Other receivables		 125,510 135,000 65,674 44,360
Amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – 673,065 1,321,977
Refundable deposits		 500,335 2,446,918 494,275 2,438,208
			 625,845 2,581,918 1,233,014 3,804,545
Less: Impairment loss				
- Other receivables (57,789) (57,789) – –
- Amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – (126,027) (126,027)
			 (57,789) (57,789) (126,027) (126,027)
Other receivables, net		 568,056 2,524,129 1,106,987 3,678,518
Total trade and other receivables		 25,052,522 25,965,473 21,042,204 22,505,489
Included in refundable deposits of the Group and of the Company amount totalling of RM385,680/- (2019:
RM2,366,621/-) are placed for purchase of machineries as mentioned in Note 24 to the financial statements.
The currencies exposure profile of trade and other receivables are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
USD					 1,495,425 1,171,771
EUR					 – 2,097,572
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 to 90 days (2019: 7 to 90 days) terms. They
are recognised on their original invoice amount which represents their fair values on initial recognition.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
86
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
The movement in allowance of impairment loss of trade and other receivables are as follows:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Trade receivables
At 1 January		 5,415,092 5,515,891 20,865,127 21,041,824
Charge for impairment loss		 918,856 810,958 875,852 769,211
Reversal of impairment loss (1,270,575) (911,757) (1,266,880) (945,908)
Written off		 (1,900,955) – (1,900,955) –
At 31 December		 3,162,418 5,415,092 18,573,144 20,865,127
Other receivables
At 1 January		 57,789 57,789 126,027 116,729
Charge for impairment loss		 – – – 9,298
At 31 December		 57,789 57,789 126,027 126,027
Trade receivables that are individually determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to debtors that
have defaulted on payments. These receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit enhancements.
Included in amount owing by subsidiaries, an amount of RM506,740 due from a subsidiary is unsecured,
subject to interest ranging from 7.42% to 8.18% per annum. All other amount owing by subsidiaries are
unsecured, non-interest bearing, and repayable in demand.
Included in trade receivables of the Group are amounts totalling of RM11,888,415/- (2019: RM10,441,443/-)
due from 2 (2019: 2) of its significant receivables.
11. OTHER INVESTMENT
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss
- unquoted investment in Malaysia				 – 1,427
The unquoted investment represents investment in short to medium-term fixed income instrument and
managed by an investment management company.
The fair value measurements for the unquoted investment have been categorised as Level 3 fair value based
on the input of valuation techniques used.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 87
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
12. CASH, BANK BALANCES AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
				
Cash on hand and at banks 1,473,057 2,975,469 1,024,130 2,611,166
Deposits with licensed banks		 5,500,000 6,097,159 5,500,000 6,097,159
Cash and bank balances		 6,973,057 9,072,628 6,524,130 8,708,325
Less: Bank overdrafts 		 (2,477,249) (3,263,459) (2,477,249) (3,263,459)
Cash and cash equivalents		 4,495,808 5,809,169 4,046,881 5,444,866
The foreign currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
USD					 2,973 550
Others				 8,825 8,825
The deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company earn interest at rates ranging at 1.72% to
2.95% (2019: 2.95% to 4.30%) per annum. Deposits of the Group and of the Company have maturity period
ranging in 14 to 66 days (2019: 9 to 365 days).
13. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			
Unit Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January/31 December 74,833,270 74,833,270 29,933,308 29,933,308
Effective from 31 January 2017, the Companies Act 2016 abolished the concept of authorised share capital
and par value of share capital.
The holder of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividend as declared from time to time and are entitled to
one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to the Company’s
residual assets.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
14. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Trade payables
Third parties		 11,750,059 12,457,655 7,227,406 7,851,377
Amount owing to subsidiaries		 – – 360,355 374,938
			 11,750,059 12,457,655 7,587,761 8,226,315
Other payables				
Accrued operating expenses 3,723,886 3,081,627 3,016,035 2,508,364
Other payables		 1,159,265 1,785,026 1,019,378 1,671,836
Refundable deposits		 126,908 126,908 126,908 126,908
Amount owing to subsidiaries		 – – 140,420 134,175
			 5,010,059 4,993,561 4,302,741 4,441,283
Total trade and other payables 16,760,118 17,451,216 11,890,502 12,667,598
The trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally granted on 7 to 90 days (2019: 7 to 90
days) terms.
The amount owing to subsidiaries are unsecured, non-interest bearing, expected to be settled in cash and is
repayable on demand.
The currencies exposure profile of trade and other payables is as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
				
USD					 59,873 223,265
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 89
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
15. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Rebate liabilities 2,929,043 2,006,825 2,816,873 1,993,176
Return liabilities		 15,433 14,019 15,433 14,019
			 2,944,476 2,020,844 2,832,306 2,007,195
16. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
Current
Bankers’ acceptances (unsecured)		 		 15,783,294 11,963,000
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				 2,477,249 3,263,459
					 18,260,543 15,226,459
The remaining maturities of the loans and borrowings are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
On demand and within one year				 18,260,543 15,226,459
Bankers’ acceptances
The bankers’ acceptances of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group
and the Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.
The effective interest rates as at reporting date is range from 4.09% to 6.33% (2019: 5.00% to 6.81%) per
annum.
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group and the
Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.
The effective interest rates as at the reporting date range from 6.81% to 7.95% (2019: 8.39% to 9.20%) per
annum.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
17. REVENUE
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Sales of trading goods 15,548,681 14,979,287 – –
Sales of manufactured goods 59,401,736 50,373,443 64,396,311 57,073,593
			 74,950,417 65,352,730 64,396,311 57,073,593
Timing of revenue recognition:
At a point in time		 74,950,417 65,352,730 64,396,311 57,073,593
18. COST OF SALES
Cost of sales represents the production costs, direct material, labour costs and related overheads as well as
the costs of inventories sold.
19. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Interest expenses				
- trade financing 771,761 767,578 749,443 750,500
- bank overdrafts		 68,246 126,967 68,246 126,967
- lease liabilities		 123,537 97,657 106,830 86,433
			 963,544 992,202 924,519 963,900
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
20. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
in arriving at profit/(loss) before tax:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
After charging:				
Impairment loss for:				
- trade receivables		 918,856 810,958 871,037 769,211
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – 4,815 9,298
- investment in subsidiaries		 – – 13,404 –
Audit remuneration:				
- current year		 132,700 130,820 94,000 94,000
- under/(over) accrual in prior year		 1,880 (6,081) – –
Directors’ remunerations:				
- salaries and allowances		 1,529,998 1,462,850 1,529,998 1,462,850
- fees 		 130,000 90,000 130,000 90,000
- bonus		 132,128 224,700 132,128 224,700
- other emoluments		 170,173 189,121 170,173 189,121
- allowance for a director of subsidiary 117,650 126,700 – –
Depreciation of:				
- property, plant and equipments		 1,989,095 1,965,891 1,694,272 1,658,414
- right-of-use assets		 448,652 296,528 396,606 257,684
Loss on foreign exchange:				
- realised		 144,648 79,354 144,648 79,354
- unrealised		 12,581 17,427 12,581 17,427
Loss on disposal of property,				
 plant and equipment 13,578 – 13,578 –  
Property, plant and equipment
 written off 3,343 1,954 3,274 1,954
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets 75,112 46,836 38,760 18,510
Staff costs:				
- salaries, wages and allowances		 11,233,239 11,149,663 9,773,191 9,327,280
- bonus		 1,062,880 785,864 908,089 715,789
- Employees Provident Fund 1,068,685 1,041,186 875,586 842,344
- SOCSO		 157,781 140,983 130,238 115,531
- other staff related expenses 710,246 789,953 628,862 698,571
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
20. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
in arriving at profit/(loss) before tax (Continued):
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
And crediting:
Bad debts recovered		 1,458 – – –
Income from other investment		 20 43 20 43
Interest income		 75,555 307,428 144,371 307,428
Reversal of impairment loss for:				
- trade receivables		 1,270,575 911,757 1,261,513 867,390
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 – – 5,367 78,518
- investment in associate		 341,653 454,146 – –
Income from subleasing				
 right-of-use assets 7,200 7,500 26,400 26,400
Income on financial assets
 measured at amortised cost – 44,842 – 44,842
Gain on disposal of property,				
 plant and equipment – 2,715 – 199
Gain on foreign exchange:				
- unrealised		 – 48,146 – 48,146
(a) Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind are as
follows:
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
Executive Director
Director’s fees				 10,000 10,000
Salaries				 1,409,998 1,342,850
Bonus				 132,128 224,700
Other emoluments				 170,173 189,121
					 1,722,299 1,766,671
Non-Executive Directors
Directors’ fees				 120,000 80,000
Allowances				 120,000 120,000
					 240,000 200,000
Grand Total
Directors’ fees				 130,000 90,000
Salaries		 		 1,409,998 1,342,850
Bonus				 132,128 224,700
Allowances				 120,000 120,000
Other emoluments				 170,173 189,121
					 1,962,299 1,966,671
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 93
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
20. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)
(a) Directors’ remuneration (Continued)
The number of directors of the Company whose total remuneration fall within the respective ranges are
as follows:
		 Number of Directors
2020 2019
				 Non- 		 Non-
			 Executive Executive Executive Executive
			 Director Director Director Director
Ranges of Remuneration (RM)
RM0 - RM50,000		 – 4 – 4
RM100,001 - RM150,000		 – 1 – 1
RM1,000,001 - RM1,050,000		– – – –
RM1,400,001 - RM1,450,000		– – – –
RM1,700,001 - RM1,750,000		1 – – –
RM1,750,001 - RM1,800,000		– – 1 –
			1 5 1 5
(b) Key management personnel
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Directors’ remunerations (Note 20(a)) 1,962,299 1,966,671 1,962,299 1,966,671
Other key management personnel
- salaries, bonus and other 				
emoluments		 2,779,093 2,422,135 2,380,606 1,975,923
- defined contribution plans 341,536 296,658 303,865 252,781
			 5,082,928 4,685,464 4,646,770 4,195,375
21. INCOME TAX (EXPENSE)/CREDIT
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Income tax
- current year		 (100,000) (150,000) (100,000) (150,000)
- over provision in prior years		 84,819 403,979 84,819 405,147
			 (15,181) 253,979 (15,181) 255,147
The income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2019: 24%) of the estimated taxable profit for
the financial year.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
21. INCOME TAX (EXPENSE)/CREDIT (CONTINUED)
The reconciliations from tax amount at the statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and the Company’s
income tax (expense)/credit are as follows:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,109,522 (2,472,206) 105,488 (2,322,195)
Tax at applicable tax rate of 24% (266,285) 593,330 (25,317) 557,327
Tax effects arising from:				
- non-taxable income		 – 13,424 – 8,462
- non-deductible expenses		 (864,957) (775,660) (687,306) (629,322)
- share of results of associate 82,486 99,098 – –
- utilised/(reversal) of deferred tax
 assets not recognised in prior years 948,756 (80,192) 612,623 (86,467)
- over provision in prior years 84,819 403,979 84,819 405,147
Income tax (expense)/credit for the
 financial year (15,181) 253,979 (15,181) 255,147
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised for the following items:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Deductible temporary differences 3,995,968 6,848,538 19,920,179 22,735,272
Unabsorbed capital allowances 1,416,144 2,109,087 964,207 701,711
Unabsorbed reinvestment				
 allowances 793,957 793,957 – –
Unutilised tax losses		 23,507,946 23,915,586 – –
			 29,714,015 33,667,168 20,884,386 23,436,983
Potential deferred tax assets 				
 not recognised at 24% 7,131,364 8,080,120 5,012,253 5,624,876
Pursuant to Section 11 of the Act 812, special provision relating to Section 43 & 44 of Income Tax Act 1967,
a time limit has been imposed on the unutilised business losses, to be carried forward for a maximum of 7
consecutive years of assessment, this section has effect from the year of assessment 2019 and subsequent
year of assessment.
Any unutilised business losses brought forward from year of assessment 2018 can be carried forward for
another 7 consecutive years of assessment (i.e. from year of assessments 2019 to 2025).
						
Group
Year of assessment					
RM
2025						
23,507,946
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 95
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
22. EARNING/(LOSS) PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic earning/(loss) per ordinary share
Basic earning/(loss) per ordinary share are based on the profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable
to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
financial year, calculated as follows:
		Group
					2020 2019
Profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the Company (RM) 1,095,342 (2,220,880)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (units) 74,833,270 74,833,270
Basic earning/(loss) per ordinary share (sen) 		 1.46 (2.97)
(b) Diluted earning/(loss) per ordinary share
The Group has no potential dilutive of ordinary shares. As such, there is no dilution effect on the earning/
(loss) per share of the Group.
23. RELATED PARTIES
(a) Identity of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to
control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operational
decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties of the Group include:
(i) Subsidiaries;
(ii) Entities in which directors have substantial financial interests; and
(iii) Key management personnel of the Group’s and of the Company’s holding company, comprise of
persons (including directors) having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the activities directly or indirectly.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
23. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Significant related party transactions
Significant related party transactions other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are as
follows:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Transactions with subsidiaries
Sales to subsidiaries				
- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. – – 13,921,636 13,079,115
- Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd. 		 – – 1,756 85,731
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. – – 210,291 5,520
- Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd.		 – – 25,756 129,969
- Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd. – – (1,922) 8,947
Commission fees and rental received
 from/(paid to) subsidiaries
- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. 		 – – 22,800 22,800
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. – – (124,276) (224,160)
Interest received from subsidiary				
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. – – 68,816 –
Transactions with directors,
 substantial shareholders and
 persons connected
Rental of premises paid to a
 company in which certain
 directors are the directors
 and substantial shareholders 136,000 96,000 136,000 96,000
Rental of premises paid to a director
 and substantial shareholder 33,600 15,000 33,600 15,000
Transactions with a company in
 which a director has interest
Legal and consultancy fees paid to				
 a firm in which certain directors
 are partners 44,250 27,000 44,250 1,400
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 97
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
24. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
		 Group and Company
					2020 2019
					RM RM
Capital expenditure contracted
 but not provided for
- purchase of property, plant and
 equipment 432,549 5,715,595
25. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Group prepared the following segment in accordance with MFRS 8 Operating Segments based on
the internal reports of the Group’s strategic business units which are regularly reviewed by the Group’s
Chief Executive Director for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance
assessment.
The two reportable operating segments are as follows:
Segments Products and services
Manufacturing and Trading Manufacturing and trading of biscuits and cakes
The inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and have been
established on terms and conditions that are not materially different from those obtainable in transactions
with unrelated parties.
Segment profit
Segment performance is used to measure performance as Group’s Chief Executive Director believes that
such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries. Performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which is
measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Segment assets and liabilities
The total of segment assets and liabilities is measured based on all assets and liabilities (excluding investment
in associate) of a segment, as included in the internal reports that are reviewed by the Group’s Chief Executive
Director.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
25. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
							
Adjustment
							
and
			
Manufacturing Trading Others Total elimination Total
2020			 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Revenue
Revenue from external customer		 59,401,736 15,548,681 – 74,950,417 – 74,950,417
Inter - segment revenue A 14,157,517 – – 14,157,517 (14,157,517) –
			 73,559,253 15,548,681 – 89,107,934 (14,157,517) 74,950,417
Results:
Included in the measure of
 segment profit/(loss) are:
Income from other investment		 20 – – 20 – 20
Interest income		 144,371 – – 144,371 (68,816) 75,555
Income from subleasing
 right-of-use assets 30,000 – –   30,000 (22,800) 7,200
Reversal of impairment loss for:
- trade receivables		 1,261,513 9,062 – 1,270,575 – 1,270,575
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 5,367 – – 5,367 (5,367) –
- associate		 341,653 – – 341,653 – 341,653
Interest expenses		 (1,032,360) – – (1,032,360) 68,816 (963,544)
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment		 (1,961,694) (9,503) (17,898) (1,989,095) – (1,989,095)
- right-of-use assets		 (441,914) – (6,738) (448,652) – (448,652)
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets (66,120) (31,792) – (97,912) 22,800 (75,112)
Impairment loss for:
- trade receivables		 (871,436) (47,420) – (918,856) – (918,856)
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 (4,815) (6,531) – (11,346) 11,346 –
- investment in subsidiaries		 (13,404) – – (13,404) 13,404 –
Share of results of associate		 (343,692) – – (343,692) – (343,692)
Segment profit/(loss) B 727,170 47,044 (97,188) 677,026 432,496 1,109,522
Income tax expense		 (15,181) – – (15,181) – (15,181)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year B 711,989 47,044 (97,188) 661,845 432,496 1,094,341
Other information
Segment assets C 65,668,097 3,195,091 551,678 69,414,866 (5,914,123) 63,500,743
Segment liabilities D 36,970,455 22,465,697 237,960 59,674,112 (19,767,540) 39,906,572
Capital expenditure		 9,139,102 – – 9,139,102 – 9,139,102
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 99
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
25. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
							
Adjustment
							
and
			
Manufacturing Trading Others Total elimination Total
2019			 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Revenue
Revenue from external customer		 50,373,443 14,979,287 – 65,352,730 – 65,352,730
Inter - segment revenue A 13,309,282 – – 13,309,282 (13,309,282) –
			 63,682,725 14,979,287 – 78,662,012 (13,309,282) 65,352,730
Results:
Included in the measure of
 segment loss are:
Income from other investment		 43 – – 43 – 43
Interest income		 307,428 – – 307,428 – 307,428
Income from subleasing
 right-of-use assets 30,300 – –   30,300 (22,800) 7,500
Reversal of impairment loss for:
- trade receivables		 911,757 – – 911,757 – 911,757
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 78,518 – – 78,518 (78,518) –
- associate		 454,146 – – 454,146 – 454,146
Income on financial asset
 measured at amortised costs 44,842 – – 44,842 –   44,842
Interest expenses		 (992,202) – – (992,202) – (992,202)
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment		 (1,931,110) (16,885) (17,896) (1,965,891) – (1,965,891)
- right-of-use assets		 (289,791) – (6,737) (296,528) – (296,528)
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets (40,830) (28,806) – (69,636) 22,800 (46,836)
Impairment loss for:
- trade receivables		 (810,958) – – (810,958) – (810,958)
- amount owing by subsidiaries		 (9,298) (1,786,054) – (1,795,352) 1,795,352 –
Share of results of associate		 (412,909) – – (412,909) – (412,909)
Segment loss B (2,828,083) (1,729,073) (86,030) (4,643,186) 2,170,980 (2,472,206)
Income tax credit/(expense)		 255,147 (1,168) – 253,979 – 253,979
Loss for the financial year B (2,572,936) (1,730,241) (86,030) (4,389,207) 2,170,980 (2,218,227)
Other information
Segment assets C 61,680,070 3,454,253 606,828 65,741,151 (6,903,883) 58,837,268
Segment liabilities D 33,694,417 22,771,903 195,922 56,662,242 (20,322,765) 36,339,477
Capital expenditure		 2,014,939 8,287 – 2,023,226 – 2,023,226
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
25. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit or loss and assets are as follows:
A Inter-segment revenue
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
B Reconciliation of profit or loss
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
Elimination of inter-segment transactions			 432,496 2,170,980
C Reconciliation of assets
			
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
			
Investment in subsidiaries				 6,937,002 6,950,406
Investment in associate				 (2,175,515) (1,760,363)
Inter-segment assets				 1,152,636 1,713,840
					 5,914,123 6,903,883
D Reconciliation of liabilities
					2020 2019
					 RM RM
Inter-segment assets				 19,767,540 20,322,765
Geographical information
Revenue from local and international sales amount to RM62,856,079/- (2019: RM52,600,835/-) and
RM12,094,338/- (2019: RM12,751,895/-) respectively.
Information about major customer
Revenue from 1 (2019: 1) major customer amount to RM29,471,168/- (2019: RM24,629,606/-) arising from
sales of manufactured biscuits.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 101
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a)		
Categories of financial instruments
The following table analyses the financial instruments in the statements of financial position by the
classes of financial instruments to which they are assigned:
(i) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”)
(ii) Amortised cost (“AC”)
					
Carrying
					
Amount AC
					RM RM
At 31 December 2020
Financial assets
Group
Trade and other receivables				 25,052,522 25,052,522
Cash, bank balances 			
 and short-term deposits 6,973,057 6,973,057
					 32,025,579 32,025,579
Company 			
Trade and other receivables 				 21,042,204 21,042,204
Cash, bank balances 			
 and short-term deposits 6,524,130 6,524,130
					 27,566,334 27,566,334
At 31 December 2020			
Financial liabilities			
Group			
Trade and other payables^				 (16,081,263) (16,081,263)
Lease liabilities				 (1,941,435) (1,941,435)
Loans and borrowings				 (18,260,543) (18,260,543)
					 (36,283,241) (36,283,241)
Company 			
Trade and other payables^				 (11,291,338) (11,291,338)
Lease liabilities				 (1,755,719) (1,755,719)
Loans and borrowings				 (18,260,543) (18,260,543)
					 (31,307,600) (31,307,600)
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(a) Categories of financial instruments (Continued)
				 Carrying
				 Amount AC FVPL
				RM RM RM
At 31 December 2019			
Financial assets			
Group			
Trade and other receivables* 		 25,932,800 25,932,800 –
Other investments			 1,427 – 1,427
Cash, bank balances 			
 and short-term deposits 9,072,628 9,072,628 –   
				 35,006,855 35,005,428 1,427
Company 			
Trade and other receivables		 22,505,489 22,505,489 –
Other investments			 1,427 – 1,427
Cash, bank balances 			
 and short-term deposits 8,708,325 8,708,325 –   
				 31,215,241 31,213,814 1,427
At 31 December 2019			
Financial liabilities			
Group
Trade and other payables^ 		 (16,826,186) (16,826,186) –
Lease liabilities			 (1,640,958) (1,640,958) –
Loans and borrowings 		 (15,226,459) (15,226,459) –
				 (33,693,603) (33,693,603) –
Company 			
Trade and other payables^ 		 (12,112,348) (12,112,348) –
Lease liabilities			 (1,371,954) (1,371,954) –
Loans and borrowings			 (15,226,459) (15,226,459) –
				 (28,710,761) (28,710,761) –
* Excluded GST refundable
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
(b) Financial risk management
The Group’s and the Company’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks arising from their
operations and the use of financial instruments. The key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity
risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. The Group’s and the Company’s overall financial risk
management objective is to optimise value for their shareholders. The Group and the Company do not
trade in financial instruments.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 103
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees to policies and procedures for the management of these risks,
which are executed by the Group’s senior management. The Audit Committee provides independent
oversight to the effectiveness of the risk management process.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group and the Company that may arise on outstanding
financialinstrumentsshould a counterparty default on itsobligations.The Group and the Company
are exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade and other receivables) and
from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and other financial instruments. The
Group and the Company have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is managed
through the application of credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.
Trade receivables
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade
receivables is represented by the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
The carrying amount of trade receivables are not secured by any collateral or supported by any
other credit enhancements. In determining the recoverability of these receivables, the Group and
the Company consider any change in the credit quality of the receivables from the date the credit
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group and the Company have adopted a policy
of dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss
from defaults.
Credit risk concentration profile
The information on credit risk concentration is disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
Analysis on trade receivables
The Group and the Company only maintain an ageing analysis in respect of trade receivables.
The ageing analysis of the Group’s and of the Company’s trade receivables are as follow:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
			RM RM RM RM
Neither past due nor impaired 17,157,102 16,125,978 14,892,487 13,440,562
Past due 1 - 30 days		 2,616,356 2,909,305 1,336,644 1,871,216
Past due 31 - 120 days		 2,650,034 2,349,384 1,738,695 1,597,228
Past due more than 120 days 2,060,974 2,056,677 1,967,391 1,917,965
			 7,327,364 7,315,366 5,042,730 5,386,409
Impaired		 3,162,418 5,415,092 18,573,144 20,865,127
			 27,646,884 28,856,436 38,508,361 39,692,098
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(i) Credit risk (Continued)
Trade receivables (Continued)
The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide for impairment loss
prescribed by MFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade
receivables. To measure the impairment loss, trade receivables have been grouped based on
shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The impairment loss also incorporate
forward-looking information.
The movement of the allowance for impairment loss on receivables is as follows:
		 Trade receivables Other receivables
		 Lifetime 			 Lifetime
		 ECL Credit Total ECL Credit Total
		 allowance impaired allowance allowance impaired allowance
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group						
At 1 January 2020 3,007,106 2,407,986 5,415,092 – 57,789 57,789
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year (451,119) 99,400 (351,719) – – –  
Written off – (1,900,955) (1,900,955) – – –
At 31 December 2020 2,555,987 606,431 3,162,418 – 57,789 57,789
At 1 January 2019 2,215,805 3,300,086 5,515,891 – 57,789 57,789
Charges/(Reversal)
 for the year 791,301 (892,100) (100,799) – – –  
At 31 December 2019 3,007,106 2,407,986 5,415,092 – 57,789 57,789
Company
At 1 January 2020 2,985,017 17,880,110 20,865,127 – 126,027 126,027
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year (480,905) 89,877 (391,028) – – –  
Written off – (1,900,955) (1,900,955) – – –
At 31 December 2020 2,504,112 16,069,032 18,573,144 – 126,027 126,027
At 1 January 2019 2,215,805 18,826,019 21,041,824 – 116,729 116,729
Charges/(Reversal)
 for the year 769,212 (945,909) (176,697) – 9,298 9,298
At 31 December 2019 2,985,017 17,880,110 20,865,127 – 126,027 126,027
Receivables that are individually determined to be credit impaired at the financial year end relate
to debtors who are in significant financial difficulties and have defaulted on payments.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 105
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(i) Credit risk (Continued)
Other receivables and other financial assets
For other receivables and other financial assets (including other investment and cash and cash
equivalents), the Group and the Company minimise credit risk by dealing exclusively with high
credit rating counterparties. At the reporting date, the Group’s and the Company’s maximum
exposure to credit risk arising from other receivables and other financial assets is represented by
the carrying amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial
position.
The Group and the Company consider the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset
and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout
each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk of the Group
and of the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date
with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and
supportive forward-looking information.
Some intercompany loans between entities within the Group are repayable on demand. For loans
that are repayable on demand, impairment losses are assessed based on the assumption that
repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date. If the borrower does not have sufficient
highly liquid resources when the loan is demanded, the Group and the Company will consider the
expected manner of recovery and recovery period of the intercompany loan.
Refer to Note 3.9(a) to the financial statements for the Group’s and the Company’s other
accounting policies for impairment of financial assets.
Finance lease receivables
The credit risk associated with finance lease receivables is mitigated by way of obtaining security
over the leased equipment. At the reporting date, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is
represented by the carrying amounts recognised in the statements of financial position.
As at the end of the reporting date, the Group and the Company did not recognise any loss
allowance for impairment for finance lease receivables.
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group or the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
financial obligations when they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity
risk arise primarily from mismatches of the maturities between financial assets and liabilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arise principally from trade and other
payables, loans and borrowings.
The Group’s and the Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding
and flexibility through the use of stand-by facilities. The Group and the Company maintain
sufficient liquidity and available funds to meet daily cash needs, while maintaining controls and
security over cash movements. The Group and the Company use a series of processes to obtain
maximum benefits from its flow of funds, such that they are efficiently managed to maximise
income from investment and minimise cost on borrowed funds. The Group’s and the Company’s
finance department also ensure that there are sufficient unutilised stand-by facilities, funding and
liquid assets available to meet both short-term and long-term funding requirements.
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(ii) Liquidity risk (Continued)
Maturity analysis
The maturity analysis of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities by their relevant
maturity at the reporting date are based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations are
as follows:
		 Contractual cash flows
			 On demand		
		 Carrying or within 1 Between 1
		 Amount year and 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM
Group
At 31 December 2020
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables^ 16,081,263 16,081,263 – 16,081,263
Lease liabilities 1,941,435 703,126 1,482,099 2,185,225
Loans and borrowings 18,260,543 19,265,674 – 19,265,674
		 36,283,241 36,050,063 1,482,099 37,532,162
At 31 December 2019
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables^ 16,826,186 16,826,186 – 16,826,186
Lease liabilities 1,640,958 536,844 1,365,612 1,902,456
Loans and borrowings 15,226,459 16,219,895 – 16,219,895
		 33,693,603 33,582,925 1,365,612 34,948,537
Company
At 31 December 2020
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables^ 11,291,338 11,291,338 – 11,291,338
Lease liabilities 1,755,719 618,645 1,360,216 1,978,861
Loans and borrowings 18,260,543 19,265,674 – 19,265,674
		 31,307,600 31,175,657 1,360,216 32,535,873
At 31 December 2019
Financial liabilities				
Trade and other payables^ 12,112,348 12,112,348 – 12,112,348
Lease liabilities 1,371,954 436,848 1,159,249 1,596,097
Loans and borrowings 15,226,459 16,219,895 – 16,219,895
		 28,710,761 28,769,091 1,159,249 29,928,340
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s and the Company’s
exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s and
the Company’s operating activities (when sales and purchases that are denominated in a foreign
currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign associates.
Management has set up a policy that requires all companies within the Group and the Company
to manage their treasury activities and exposures. The Group and the Company do not hedge
their foreign currency exposures. In addition, the Group and the Company also takes advantage
of any natural effects of its foreign currencies revenues and expenses by maintaining current
accounts in foreign currencies.
The Group’s and the Company’s unhedged financial assets and liabilities that are not denominated
in their functional currencies are as follows:
				 USD EUR Total
				RM RM RM
At 31 December 2020
Trade receivables			 1,495,425 – 1,495,425
Cash and bank balances			 2,973 285 3,258
Trade payables			 (59,873) – (59,873)
Net exposure			 1,438,525 285 1,438,810
At 31 December 2019
Trade receivables			 1,171,771 2,097,572 3,269,343
Cash and bank balances			 550 285 835
Trade payables			 (223,265) – (223,265)
Net exposure			 949,056 2,097,857 3,046,913
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iii) Foreign currency risk (Continued)
Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s principal foreign currency exposure relates mainly to USD and
EUR.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the USD and
EUR, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
profit for the financial year.
					 Effect on
				 Change profit for the Effect
				 in rate financial year on equity
				 % RM RM
31 December 2020
- USD				 + 5% 71,926 71,926
				 - 5% (71,926) (71,926)
- EUR				 + 5% 14 14
				 - 5% (14) (14)
31 December 2019
- USD				 + 5% 47,453 47,453
				 - 5% (47,453) (47,453)
- EUR				 + 5% 104,893 104,893
				 - 5% (104,893) (104,893)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iv) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s and of
the Company’s financial instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s
and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from their long-term loans and
borrowings with floating interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s policy to manage their
interest rate risk is to hedge all material floating rate borrowings using interest rate swaps.
Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest
rates, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
profit for the financial year.
					 Effect on
				 Change in profit for the Effect
				 basis point financial year on equity
				 % RM RM
					
31 December 2020			 +100 182,605 182,605
				 -100 (182,605) (182,605)
					
31 December 2019			 +100 152,265 152,265
				 -100 (152,265) (152,265)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
27. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that they maintain
a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratio in order to support their business and maximise shareholder
value. The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and make adjustments to it, in light of
changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may
adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes
were made in the objectives, policies and processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2020 and
31 December 2019.
The Group and the Company monitor capital using gearing ratio. The gearing ratio is calculated as total debts
divided by total equity. The gearing ratio at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 are as follows:
Group Company
			2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Loans and borrowings 16 18,260,543 15,226,459 18,260,543 15,226,459
Lease Liabilities 6 1,941,435 1,640,958 1,755,719 1,371,954
Total debts		 20,201,978 16,867,417 20,016,262 16,598,413
Shareholders’ equity		 23,587,809 22,490,428 27,889,924 27,799,617
Gearing ratio		86% 75% 72% 60%
28. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF
THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Coronavirus outbreak
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the Coronavirus (“Covid-19”) outbreak as a
pandemic in recognition of its rapid spread across the globe. On 16 March 2020, the Malaysian Government
has imposed the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) starting from 18 March 2020 to curb the spread of the
Covid-19 outbreak in Malaysia. The Covid-19 outbreak also resulted in travel restriction, lockdown and other
precautionary measures imposed in various countries. The emergence of the Covid-19 outbreak since early
2020 has brought significant economic uncertainties in Malaysia and markets in which the Group and the
Company operate.
The Group and the Company have performed assessments on the overall impact of the situation on the
Group’s and the Company’s operations and financial implications, including the recoverability of the carrying
amount of assets and subsequent measurement of assets and liabilities, and concluded that there was no
material adverse effect on the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Given the fluidity of the situation, the Group and the Company are unable to reasonably estimate the complete
financial impacts of COVID-19 pandemic for the financial year ending 31 December 2021 to be disclosed
in the financial statements as impact assessment of the COVID-19 pandemic is a continuing process. The
Group and the Company will continuously monitor any material changes to future economic conditions that
will affect the Group and the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 111
We, SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE and DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE, being two of the directors of Hwa Tai
Industries Berhad, do hereby state that in the opinion of the directors, the accompanying financial statements set
out on pages 39 to 110 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and
fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020 and of their financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:
SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE
Director
DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE
Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 12 April 2021
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
Pursuant to Section 251(1) of the Companies Act 2016
I, LEE KIM HONG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Hwa Tai Industries
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the accompanying financial
statements set out on page 39 to 110 are correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
LEE KIM HONG
MIA Membership No:11927
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 12 April 2021.
Before me,
Hadinur mohd syarif (W761)
Commissioner for Oaths
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
112
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Hwa Tai Industries Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as
set out on pages 39 to 110.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year then ended in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and of the Company
in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
the By-Laws and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Group and Company
Trade receivables (Note 10 to the financial statements)
We focused on this area because the Group and the Company made significant judgements over assumptions
about risk of default and expected loss rate. In making these assumptions, the Group and the Company selected
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s and Company’s past history as well as forward-looking
estimation at the end of the reporting period.
Our response:
Our audit procedures included, among others:
• understanding the design and implementation of controls associated with monitoring of outstanding
receivables and impairment calculations;
• understanding of significant credit exposures which were significantly overdue or deemed to be in default
through analysis of ageing reports and other collection or legal reports prepared by the Group and the
Company;
• obtaining confirmation of balances from selected receivables; and
• reviewing subsequent receipts, considering level of activity with the customer and the Group and the Company
explanation on recoverability with significantly past due balances.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 113
Key Audit Matters (Continued)
Company
Investment in subsidiaries (Note 7 to the financial statements)
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication of impairment on its investment in
subsidiaries. The recoverable amount of investment in subsidiaries will be determined based on the higher of value-
in-use or fair value less costs to sell once there is indication of impairment.
The assessment of indication of impairment and the determination of recoverable amount both requires significant
judgement and estimates. In particular, the Company’s judgement and estimate is required in determining value-in-
use which involves assumptions and inputs supporting the underlying cash flow projections used which includes
discount rate applied, future sales, gross profit margin and operating expenses.
Our response:
Our audit procedures focused on evaluating the cash flow projections and the Company’s forecasting procedures
which included, among others:
• comparing the actual results with previous budget to assess the performance of the business, reliability of
the forecasting process;
• comparing the Company’s assumptions to externally derived data;
• testing the mathematical accuracy of the impairment assessment; and
• performing sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
114
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements (Continued)
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors of the Company are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the directors.
• conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
(Continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 115
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued)
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the member of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the contents of this report.
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT Ong Teng Yan
201906000600 (LLP0019411-LCA) & AF 0117 No. 03076/07/2021 (J)
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 12 April 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
116
Class of securities : Ordinary shares
Total amount of shares issued as fully paid : 74,833,270
Voting rights : Registered shareholders are entitled to one vote per
		 ordinary share held at all general meetings.
SIZE OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Range of No. of % of No. of % of
Shareholdings Shareholders Shareholders Shares Shareholdings
Less than 100 125 4.46 2,490 0.01
100 - 1,000 649 23.14 526,906 0.70
1,001 - 10,000 1,493 53.23 6,981,607 9.33
10,001 - 100,000 487 17.36 13,951,350 18.64
100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares 48 1.71 18,561,350 24.80
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.10 34,809,567 46.52
Total 2,805 100.00 74,833,270 100.00
THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. of % of
Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members Shares Shareholdings
1. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See 21,246,092 28.39
2. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 9,635,975 12.88
(A/C Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See)
3. RHB Capital Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Lim Kam Seng) 3,860,000 5.16
4. Teh Leong Kok 3,164,800 4.23
5. Lanjut Bestari Sdn Bhd 1,434,750 1.92
6. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Soo Chung Yee) 1,249,100 1.67
7. Mohd Nasri Bin Abdul Rahim 1,230,000 1.64
8. Yam Lai Mun 1,218,000 1.63
9. Tan Leok Kwee 850,000 1.13
10. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Wong Teng Teng) 821,100 1.10
11. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Chung Soon Kong) 490,000 0.65
12. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 428,300 0.57
(A/C Chan Khim Gee @ Chang Khim Gee)
13. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Lim Book Kooi) 370,700 0.49
14. Tan Chuan Kok 350,000 0.47
15. Ng Ah Poh 334,100 0.45
16. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Tan Mooi Kim) 286,500 0.38
17. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Teh Heng Tian) 268,000 0.36
18. Chua Chwee Siang 260,500 0.35
19. Tan Lee Kock 260,000 0.35
20. Lee Sau Kwang 250,000 0.33
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
as at 31 March 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 I HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 117
THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS (Continued)
No. of % of
Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members Shares Shareholdings
21. Hasil Aneka Sdn Bhd 239,600 0.32
22. Thong Foo Ching @ Thong Chuan Ching 220,800 0.29
23. Tan Sui Chai 220,000 0.29
24. Wong Shin Fu 220,000 0.29
25. Teo Meng How 209,200 0.28
26. Lim Keng Chuan 209,100 0.28
27. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Lee Xue Yin) 200,000 0.27
28. Booi Pang Hin 198,900 0.26
29. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Pui Wee Kuan) 190,000 0.25
30. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Tio Seng Keng) 185,000 0.25
Total		 50,100,517 66.93
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
According to the Register of Substantial Shareholders required to be kept under Section 144 of the Companies Act,
2016, the following are the substantial shareholders of the Company:
Name of Direct		 Indirect		 Total
Substantial Shareholder Interest % Interest % Interest %
(A)		 (B)		 (A) + (B)
Soo Thien Ming @ 30,949,567 41.36 – – 30,949,567 41.36
Soo Thien See
Lim Kam Seng 3,860,000 5.16 – – 3,860,000 5.16
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
According to the registers required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the directors’ interest
in the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows:-
Name of Direct		 Indirect		 Total
Director Interest % Interest % Interest %
(A)		 (B)		 (A) + (B)
Soo Thien Ming @ 30,949,567 41.36 – – 30,949,567 41.36
Soo Thien See
Datuk Soo Chung Yee 1,249,100 1.67 – – 1,249,100 1.67
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See is deemed to have an interest in the equity holdings held by the Company in its
subsidiaries by virtue of his interest in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Other than as disclosed above, none of the other directors hold any share in the Company or its related companies.
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
as at 31 March 2021
(Continued)
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2020
118
Location
Land
Area
(Sq.ft.)
Build
up Area
(Sq.ft.) Tenure Description
Date of
Acquisition
(A)/
Revaluation
(R) (Year)
Date of
Expiry
(Year)
Estimated
Age of
Building
(Years)
Net
Book
Value
(RM’000)
1 Lot No. PTD 1098 &
& PTD 1099 at Mukim
Linau, Tongkang Pecah
Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
87,120 56,150 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1983 (R) 2037 43 3,479
2 Lot No. PTD 1731 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
43,560 23,745 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1985 (R) 2039 38 153
3 Lot No. PTD 1171 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
43,560 19,670 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1978 (A) 2038 41 297
4 Lot No. PTD 881 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
21,780 6,600 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1991 (A) 2035 41 193
5 Lot No. PTD 1007 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
21,775 15,923 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
2011 (A) 2036 44 688
6 Lot No. PTD 7028 & 7029
at Mukim Linau,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
1,540
(per unit)
1,540
(per unit)
Freehold 2 units single
storey terrace
houses (Own
Occupation)
1992 (A) – 28 133
7 Lot No. PTD 80369
1 Jalan Impian Ria 6,
Taman Impian Jaya,
Skudai,
Johor Darul Takzim
7,476 1,592 Leasehold 1 unit 2 storey
corner house
(Vacant)
2006 (A) 2097 22 317
8 Lot No. PTD 40 & 41 Lok
Kawi Light Industrial
Estate, District of
Kota Kinabalu,
Sabah
121,908 49,237 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1989 (A) 2042 28 1,499
List of
Group Properties
as at 31 December 2020
✄
FORM OF PROXY
I / We,.....................................................................................................................................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
being a member of HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD, hereby appoint...............................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
or failing him / her.................................................................................................................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
or failing him / her the Chairman of the Meeting, as my / our proxy, to vote for me / us and on my / our behalf at the
Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 2 June 2021 and at any adjournment thereof in
the manner indicated below in respect of the following Resolutions:-
Resolution Resolutions relating to: For Against
Ordinary
Resolution 1
Payment of Directors’ fees
Ordinary
Resolution 2
Payment of allowance to Non-Executive Chairman
Ordinary
Resolution 3
Re-election of Director, YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee
Ordinary
Resolution 4
Re-election of Director, Encik Kamal Bin Abd Karim
Ordinary
Resolution 5
Re-election of Director, Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
Ordinary
Resolution 6
Re-election of Director, Madam Fong May Khuan
Ordinary
Resolution 7
Appointment of Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT as Auditors and their
remuneration
Ordinary
Resolution 8
Ordinary Resolution – Authority to allot and issue shares in general
pursuant to Sections 75 & 76 of the Companies Act, 2016
Please indicate with (X) how you wish your vote to be cast.
No. of Shares Held
Date:.................................................. Signature:...............................................................
NOTES:
(1) A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint at least 1 proxy to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy
need not be a member of the Company.
(2) Where a member appoints 2 or more proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be
represented by each proxy.
(3) Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least 1
proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of such securities account.
(4) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor
is a corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.
(5) The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting or
any adjournment thereof.
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES – COVID-19 OUTBREAK SAFETY MEASURES
(1) All attendees to the Meeting including proxies are required to adhere to the Covid-19 outbreak safety measures as stated in the administrative
notes in the Notice of Meeting.
(2) To ensure physical distancing and to reduce the number of crowd at the Meeting, there will be no refreshment served nor distribution of door
gifts/goody-bags to all attendees of the Meeting.
(3) As the COVID-19 outbreak is an ever evolving situation, the venue, date and mode of the Meeting may be changed according to the circumstances
then and any such changes will be publicly announced through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Company No.: 19688-V (New Reg. No.: 197401002656)
THE SECRETARY
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
NO. 12 JALAN JORAK
KAWASAN PERINDUSTRIAN TONGKANG PECAH
83010 BATU PAHAT
JOHOR DARUL TAKZIM
MALAYSIA
Postage
Please fold here
Please fold here
Please fold this flap for sealing
