> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
47
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
Hwa Tai Industries Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled
in Malaysia and listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The registered office and the
principal place of business of the Company are both located at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim.
The principal activities of the Company are that of a biscuit manufacturer and investment holding. The
principal activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these principal activities during the financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution
of the directors on 29 March 2022.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
2.1 Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), the International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs
The Group and the Company have adopted the following amendments/improvements to MFRSs for the
current financial year:
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs
MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts
MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
MFRS 9 Financial Instruments
MFRS 16 Leases*
MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
* Early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16 Leases issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards
Board (“MASB”) on 6 April 2021.
48
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs (Continued)
The adoption of the above amendments/improvements to MFRSs did not have any significant effect on
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and did not result in significant changes to
the Group’s and the Company’s existing accounting policies, except for those as discussed below.
Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments, MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement, MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and MFRS 16
Leases
The Group and the Company have adopted the amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS
4 and MFRS 16 for the first time in the current year. The Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2
amends some specific requirements in MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16, with respect
to issues that affect financial reporting during the reform of an interest rate benchmark.
The amendments provide a practical expedient whereby an entity would not derecognise or adjust the
carrying amount of financial instruments for modifications required by interest rate benchmark reform,
but would instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmark.
On hedging relationship, entities would be required to amend the formal designation of a hedging
relationship to reflect the modifications and/or changes made to the hedged item and/or hedging
instruments as a result of the reform. However, the modification does not constitute discontinuation of
the hedging relationship nor the designation of a new hedging relationship.
The Group and the Company elected the practical expedient to not derecognise or adjust the carrying
amount of financial instruments for modifications required by interest rate benchmark reform, but
would instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmark.
Amendment to MFRS 16 Leases
The Group and the Company have adopted the amendment(s) to MFRS 16 that issued on 5 June 2020
and early adopted the amendment(s) to MFRS 16 that issued on 6 April 2021 that exempts lessees
from having to consider individual lease contracts to determine whether rent concessions occurring
as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic are lease modifications and allows lessees to
account for such rent concessions as if they were not lease modifications, applying to reduction in
lease payments originally due on or before 30 June 2021 and 30 June 2022.
49
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(a) The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new MFRS and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective:
			 Effective for
			 financial periods
			 beginning on or after
New MFRS
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
		
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs
MFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial 1 January 2022^/
Reporting Standards 1 January 2023#
MFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 1 January 2023#
Discontinued Operations
MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2023#
MFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2022^/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred
MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2023#
MFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2022^
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2023/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 107 Statements of Cash Flows 1 January 2023#
MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 1 January 2023
Estimates and Errors
MFRS 112 Income Taxes 1 January 2023
MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 119 Employee Benefits 1 January 2023#
MFRS 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Deferred/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 132 Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2023#
MFRS 136 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2023#
MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 1 January 2022/
1 January 2023#
MFRS 138 Intangible Assets 1 January 2023#
MFRS 140 Investment Property 1 January 2023#
MFRS 141 Agriculture 1 January 2022^
^ The Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020
# Amendments as to the consequence of effective of MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
50
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(Continued)
(b) The Group and the Company plan to adopt the above applicable new MFRS and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs when they become effective. A brief discussion on the above significant
new MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs are summarised below.
Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations
The amendments update MFRS 3 by replacing a reference to an old version of the Conceptual
Framework for Financial Reporting with a reference to the latest version which was issued by
MASB in April 2018.
Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures
These amendments address an acknowledged inconsistency between the requirements in MFRS
10 and those in MFRS 128, in dealing with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor
and its associate or joint venture.
The main consequence of the amendments is that a full gain or loss is recognised when a
transaction involves a business, as defined in MFRS 3. A partial gain or loss is recognised when
a transaction involves assets that do not constitute a business.
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements
The amendments include specifying that an entity’s right to defer settlement of a liability for at
least twelve months after the reporting period must have substance and must exist at the end
of the reporting period; clarifying that classification of liability is unaffected by the likelihood
of the entity to exercise its right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months
after the reporting period; clarifying how lending conditions affect classification of a liability; and
clarifying requirements for classifying liabilities an entity will or may settle by issuing its own
equity instruments.
The amendments require an entity to disclose its material accounting policy information rather
than significant accounting policies. The amendments, amongst others, also include examples
of circumstances in which an entity is likely to consider an accounting policy information to be
material to its financial statements. To support this amendments, MFRS Practice Statement 2
was also amended to provide guidance on how to apply the concept of materiality to accounting
policy information disclosures. The guidance and examples provided in the MFRS Practice
Statement 2 highlight the need to focus on entity-specific information and demonstrate how
the four-step materiality process can address standardised (or boilerplate) information and
duplication of requirements of MFRSs in the accounting policy information disclosures.
51
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
(Continued)
(b) The Group and the Company plan to adopt the above applicable new MFRS and amendments/
improvements to MFRSs when they become effective. A brief discussion on the above significant
new MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs are summarised below. (Continued)
Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
The amendments revise the definition of accounting estimates to clarify how an entity should
distinguish changes in accounting policies from changes in accounting estimates. The
distinction is important because the changes in accounting estimates are applied prospectively to
transactions, other events, or conditions from the date of that change, but changes in accounting
policies are generally also applied retrospectively to past transactions and other past events.
Amendments to MFRS 112 Income Taxes
The amendments specify how an entity should account for deferred tax on transactions such as
leases and decommissioning obligation.
In specified circumstances, MFRS 112 exempts an entity from recognising deferred tax when
it recognises assets or liabilities for the first time. There had been some uncertainties about
whether the exemption from recognising deferred tax applied to transactions such as leases and
decommissioning obligations – transactions for which an entity recognises both an asset and a
liability. The amendments clarify that the exemption does not apply and that entity is required to
recognise deferred tax on such transactions.
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment
The amendments prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of property, plant and equipment
amounts received from selling items produced while the entity is preparing the asset for its
intended use. Instead, an entity shall recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or
loss.
Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
The amendments specify which costs an entity includes in determining the cost of fulfilling a
contract for the purpose of assessing whether the contract is onerous.
52
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
2.4 Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
currency.
2.5 Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost
basis, except as otherwise disclosed in Note 3.
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Unless otherwise stated, the following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the financial
years presented in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
3.1 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The financial statements of the subsidiaries and associate used in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company.
Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination
Subsidiaries are entities (including structure entities) over which the Group is exposed, or has
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the acquirees and has the ability to affect
those returns through its power over the acquirees.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date the Group obtains control of the acquirees until the date the Group loses control of
the acquirees.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations from the
acquisition date.
For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred, calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date
fair value of assets transferred (including contingent consideration), the liabilities incurred
to former owners of the acquiree and the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any
amounts that relate to pre-existing relationships or other arrangements before or during
the negotiations for the business combination, that are not part of the exchange for the
acquiree, will be excluded from the business combination accounting and be accounted
for separately; plus
53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Continued)
For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
(Continued)
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date
(the choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis); plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the
previously held equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities (including contingent
liabilities) assumed at the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss
at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the Group remeasures the previously held equity
interest in the acquiree to its acquisition-date fair value, and recognises the resulting gain or loss,
if any, in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date
that have been previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings on the same basis as would be required if the
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
in which the business combination occurs, the Group uses provisional fair value amounts for the
items for which the accounting is incomplete. The provisional amounts are adjusted to reflect
new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date,
including additional assets or liabilities identified in the measurement period. The measurement
period for completion of the initial accounting ends as soon as the Group receives the information
it was seeking about facts and circumstances or learns that more information is not obtainable,
subject to the measurement period not exceeding one year from the acquisition date.
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any gain or loss
arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently, it is accounted for as an associate or a financial asset.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between the Group’s share of net assets
before and after the change, and the fair value of the consideration received or paid, is recognised
directly in equity.
54
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(b) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly,
to owners of the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial
position within equity.
Losses attributable to the non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests
even if the losses exceed the non-controlling interests.
(c) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, to the
financial and operating policies.
Investment in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the
equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in associates are initially recognised at cost. The cost
of investment includes transaction costs. Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of
that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition of
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made
payments on behalf of the associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest
in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value
and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. Any difference
between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value
of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not remeasured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease
in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other
comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or
loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
liabilities.
55
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(d) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of
impairment.
3.2 Separate financial statements
In the Company’s statement of financial position, investment in subsidiaries and associate are
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held
for sale or distribution. The cost of investment includes transaction costs. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment losses shall be applied on the same basis as would be required for
impairment of non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 3.9(b).
Contributions to subsidiaries are amounts which the settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur
in the foreseeable future is, in substance considered as part of the Company’s investment in the
subsidiaries.
3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations
(a) Translation of foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the transactions dates.
At the end of each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined. Non-monetary
items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the
historical rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary items are
recognised in profit or loss except for monetary item that are designated as a hedging instrument
in either a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. When
settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss
in the separate financial statements of the parent company or the individual financial statements
of the foreign operation. In the consolidated financial statements, the exchange differences are
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised initially
in other comprehensive income until its disposal, at which time, the cumulative amount is
reclassified to profit or loss.
56
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations (Continued)
(a) Translation of foreign currency transactions (Continued)
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in
line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income
or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
(b) Translation of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations denominated in the functional currency different
from the presentation currency, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
acquisition, are translated into the presentation currency at exchange rates prevailing at the
reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates
at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests.
When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control
is lost, the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserves related to that foreign
operation is reclassified to profit or loss. For a partial disposal not involving loss of control of
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of cumulative amount
in foreign exchange translation reserve is reattributed to non-controlling interests. For partial
disposalsofassociatesthatdonotresultintheGrouplosingsignificantinfluence,theproportionate
share of the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserve is reclassified to profit or
loss.
3.4 Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the
Group and the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instruments.
Except for the trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the
Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient, the financial instruments are recognised
initially at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
financial asset and financial liability. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through
profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing
component or for which the Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient are measured
at the transaction price determined under MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
57
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract and accounted for as a
derivative if, and only if, it is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host
contract; it is a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the
definition of a derivative; and the hybrid contract is not measured as fair value through profit or loss.
The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with the policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
A derivative embedded within a hybrid contract containing a financial asset host is not accounted for
separately. The financial asset host together with the embedded derivative is required to be classified
in its entirety as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
(a) Subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows:
(i) Financial assets
For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified as financial
assets at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing the financial
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial assets.
The Group and the Company reclassify financial assets when and only when their business
model for managing those assets change.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. The
Group and the Company classify their debt instruments at amortised cost.
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash
flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest
method and are subject to impairment. The policy for the recognition and measurement of
impairment is in accordance with Note 3.9(a). Gains and losses are recognised in profit or
loss when the financial asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
58
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Continued)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Continued):
(i) Financial assets (Continued)
Equity instruments
The Group and the Company subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value.
Upon initial recognition, the Group and the Company can make an irrevocable election to
classify its equity investments that is not held for trading as equity instruments designated
at fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”). The classification is
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are not recycled to profit or loss. Dividends
are recognised as other income in the profit or loss when the right of payment has been
established, except when the Group and the Company benefit from such proceeds as a
recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded
in other comprehensive income. Equity instruments designated at FVOCI are not subject to
impairment assessment.
(ii) Financial liabilities
The Group and the Company classify their financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the
financial liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
(b) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, net of transaction
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined
in accordance with Section 5.5 of MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised less, when
appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
MFRS 15.
59
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(c) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
convention in the marketplace concerned.
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as
applicable, using trade date accounting (i.e. the date the Group and the Company commit
themselves purchase or sell an asset).
Trade date accounting refers to:
(i) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and
(ii) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and corresponding liability until the
settlement date when title passes.
(d) Derecognition
A financial asset or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when:
(i) the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or
(ii) the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from
the asset or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without
material delay to a third party; and either (a) the Group and the Company have transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group and the Company have
neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but
have transferred control of the asset.
The Group and the Company evaluate if, and to what extent, they have retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset
and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that
the Group and the Company have retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is
measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of
consideration that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.
60
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
(d) Derecognition (Continued)
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount (measured at
the date of derecognition) and the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less
any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash
assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
(e) Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the
statements of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and
settle the liabilities simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity
shall not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability.
3.5 Property, plant and equipment
(a) Recognition and measurement
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment
losses is in accordance with Note 3.9(b).
Cost of assets includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
and any other costs that are directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on
which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes cost of materials, direct
labour, and any other direct attributable costs but excludes internal profits. For qualifying assets,
borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs in
Note 3.14.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as
part of that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives,
they are accounted for as a separate items of property, plant and equipment.
61
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.5 Property, plant and equipment (Continued)
(b) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a part of an item of property, plant and equipment, is included in the asset’s
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that
the future economic benefits associated with the part will flow to the Group or the Company and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All
other repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit or loss as incurred.
(c) Depreciation
Freehold land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not depreciated. Assets under
construction included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as these assets are
not yet available for use.
All other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on straight-line basis by allocating their
depreciable amounts over their remaining useful lives.
Leasehold buildings 1% - 10%
Renovation 10%
Plant and machinery 5% - 33%
Office equipment, furniture and fittings and motor vehicles 10% - 20%
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and adjusted as appropriate.
(d) Derecognition
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset is recognised in profit or loss.
3.6 Leases
(a) Definition of lease
At inception of a contract, the Group and the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains,
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the Company assess
whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
• the Group and the Company have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic
benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group and the Company have the right to direct the use of the asset.
62
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(b) Lessee accounting
At the lease commencement date, the Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset
and a lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-
term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value
assets.
The Group and the Company present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate lines in
the statements of financial position.
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying
asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses, and adjust for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. The
right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to
the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. If the
Group and the Company expect to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated
over the useful life of the underlying asset. The depreciation starts from the commencement date
of the underlying asset. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment losses is
in accordance with Note 3.9(b).
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
be readily determined, the Group and the Company use their weighted average incremental
borrowing rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index
or rate at the commencement date;
• the amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
• the exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that
option; and
• payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee
exercising an option to terminate the lease.
63
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(b) Lessee accounting (Continued)
Lease liability (Continued)
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.
The Group and the Company remeasure the lease liability (and make a corresponding adjustment
to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a
purchase option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised
lease payments using a revised discount rate.
• the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected
payment under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured
by discounting the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease
payments change is due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised
discount rate is used).
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate
lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are not included in the
measurement of the lease liability and the right-of-use asset.The related payments are recognised
as an expense in the period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs
and are included in the line “other expenses” in the statements of comprehensive income.
The Group and the Company have elected not to separate non-lease components and account for
the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits
from the leased asset are consumed.
64
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.6 Leases (Continued)
(c) Lessor accounting
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership. All other leases that do not meet this criterion are classified as operating
leases.
When the Group and the Company are intermediate lessors, they account for the head lease and
the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease
by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. If a head lease is a short-term
lease to which the Group applies the exemption described in Note 3.6(a), then it classifies the
sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in a finance lease, it derecognises the underlying asset and
recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance
income is recognised in profit or loss based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of
return on the lessor’s net investment in the finance lease.
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in an operating lease, the underlying asset is not derecognised
but is presented in the statements of financial position according to the nature of the asset.
Lease income from operating leases is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over
the lease term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in
which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.
When a contract includes lease and non-lease components, the Group and the Company apply
MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration under the contract to each component.
3.7 Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as
follows:
• raw materials, packing materials and consumables: purchase costs on a first-in first-out basis.
• finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials, direct labour and a proportion of
manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity. These costs are assigned on a
standard costing basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
3.8 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand,
bank balances and deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments with a maturity of three
months or less, that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
65
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets
(a) Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets measured at amortised cost and lease receivables will be subject to the
impairment requirement in MFRS 9 which is related to the accounting for expected credit losses
on the financial assets. Expected credit losses are the weighted average of credit losses with the
respective risks of a default occurring as the weights.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit losses, except for the following, which are measured as 12-month expected credit losses:
• debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date; and
• other debt securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. risk of default occurring
over the expected life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since
initial recognition.
For trade receivables and lease receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified
approach permitted by MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit losses.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company
consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue
cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based
on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and
including forward-looking information.
The Group and the Company assume that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
significantly if it is more than 30 days past due.
The Group and the Company consider a financial asset to be in default when:
• the debtor is unable to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full,
without taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group and the Company;
or
• the contractual payment of the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the
Group and the Company have reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that
a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
12-month expected credit losses are the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent
the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are
possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
66
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Continued)
Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value
of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the
difference between the cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial assets.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events
that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have
occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data about the
following events:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the debtor;
• a breach of contract, such as a default of past due event;
• the lender(s) of the debtor, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the debtor’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the debtor a concession(s) that the lender(s) would
not otherwise consider; or
• itisbecomingprobablethatthedebtorwillenterbankruptcyorotherfinancialreorganisation.
The amount of impairment losses (or reversal) shall be recognised in profit or loss, as an
impairment gain or loss. For financial assets measured at FVOCI, the loss allowance shall be
recognised in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying amount of the
financial asset in the statements of financial position.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the
extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
and the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or source of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial
assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with
the Group’s and the Company’s procedure for recovery of amounts due.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end
of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists, the Group and the Company make an estimate of the asset’s recoverable
amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of non-financial assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”).
67
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets (Continued)
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. In determining the fair value less
costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceed its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously
recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. An impairment
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. Reversal of impairment loss
is restricted by the asset’s carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
3.10 Share capital
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary shares are equity instruments. An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are recorded at
the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction costs. Dividends on ordinary
shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
3.11 Employee benefits
(a) Short-term employee benefits
Short-termemployeebenefitobligationsinrespectofwages,salaries,socialsecuritycontributions,
annual bonuses, paid annual leave, sick leave and non-monetary benefits are recognised as an
expense in the financial year where the employees have rendered their services to the Group and
the Company.
(b) Defined contribution plans
As required by law, the Group and the Company contribute to the Employees Provident Fund
(“EPF”), the national defined contribution plan. Such contributions are recognised as an expense
in the profit or loss in the period in which the employees rendered their services.
68
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.12 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation (legal or
constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions that are determined based on the expected
future cash flows to settle the obligation are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. When discounting
is used, the increase in the provisions due to passage of time is recognised as finance costs.
Provisions are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is
no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, the
provision is reversed.
3.13 Revenue and other income
The Group and the Company recognise revenue that depict the transfer of promised goods or services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group and the Company expect
to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Group and the Company measure revenue at its transaction price, being the amount of consideration
to which the Group and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised good
or service to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties, adjusted for the effects
of any variable consideration, constraining estimates of variable consideration, significant financing
components, non-cash consideration and consideration payable to customer. If the transaction price
includes variable consideration, the Group and the Company use the expected value method by
estimating the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a range or possible consideration amounts, or
the most likely outcome method, depending on which method the Group and the Company expect to
better predict the amount of consideration to which it is entitled.
Financing components
The Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient for not to adjust the promised amount
of consideration for the effects of a significant financing components if the Group and the Company
expect that the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and
payment by the customer will be one year or less.
(a) Sale of manufactured goods
The Group manufactures and sells a range of biscuits and cakes products to local and foreign
customers. Revenue from sale of manufactured goods are recognised at a point in time when
control of the products has been transferred, being when the customers accepts the delivery of
goods.
Sales are made within a credit term of 7 to 90 days, therefore, no element of financing is deemed
present. A receivable is recognised when the customer accepts the delivery of the goods as the
consideration is unconditional other than the passage of time before the payment is due.
69
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.13 Revenue and other income (Continued)
(a) Sale of manufactured goods (Continued)
Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the volume rebate and
returns where applicable.
The Group’s customary business practice is to allow a customer to return any defected and
expired products and receive a full refund.
A contract liability is recognised for expected volume rebates payable to customers and for
products expected to be returned from customers in relation to sales made until the end of the
reporting period.
(b) Rental income
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentive
granted is recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the lease.
(c) Interest income
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
3.14 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are interests and other costs that the Group and the Company incur in connection with
borrowing of funds.
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The Group and the Company begin capitalising borrowing costs when the Group and the Company have
incurred the expenditures for the asset, incurred related borrowing costs and undertaken activities that
are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
70
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.15 Income tax
Income tax expense in profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax
are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items
recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
(a) Current tax
Current tax is the expected taxes payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the
financial year, using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of
the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting
date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the statements
of financial position. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences,
unused tax losses and unused tax credits, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and
unused tax credits can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
assets and liabilities in a transaction which is not a business combination and that affects neither
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associate, except where the Group is able to control the
reversal timing of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary
differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent
that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits
of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the
benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right
to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but
they intend to settle their income tax recoverable and income tax payable on a net basis or their
tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
71
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.15 Income tax (Continued)
(c) Sales and services tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of amount of sales and services tax except:
• where the sales and services tax incurred in a purchase of assets or services is not
recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales and services tax is
recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as
applicable; and
• receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales and services tax included.
The net amount of sales and services tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority
is included as part of receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
3.16 Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS
is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares
held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
3.17 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker. The Group Chief Executive Director, who is responsible for allocating
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief
operating decision-maker that makes strategic decisions.
3.18 Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market,
in the most advantageous market.
For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable
market data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy
based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group
and the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
72
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.18 Fair value measurements (Continued)
The Group and the Company recognise transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the
date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
3.19 Contingencies
A contingent liability or asset is a possible obligation or asset that arises from past events and whose
existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) not
wholly within the control of the Group and of the Company.
Contingent liability is also referred as a present obligation that arises from past events but is not
recognised because:
(a) it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation; or
(b) the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Contingent liabilities and assets are not recognised in the statements of financial position.
3.20 Contract liabilities
Contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to customer for which the Group and the
Company have received the consideration or have billed the customers.
Under MFRS 15, revenue is accounted for as a variable consideration. The Group and the Company
provide volume rebates to certain customers once the quantity of products purchased during the
period exceeds a threshold specified in the contract. Therefore, rebate liabilities for the expected future
rebates are recognised.
The Group and the Company also provide expected future returns to customers for their purchases.
Therefore, return liabilities for the expected future returns relating to right of return product from the
customers are recognised.
Revenue is adjusted for the value of the expected future rebates and corresponding goods expected to
be returned.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithMFRSsrequirestheuseofcertaincriticalaccounting
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. It also requires directors to exercise their judgement in
the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates and
judgement are based on the directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may
differ.
73
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONTINUED)
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity that have the most significant effect on the
Group’s and the Company’s financial statements, or areas where assumptions and estimates that have a
significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements
within the next financial year are disclosed as follows:
(a) Trade receivables
The impairment provisions for trade receivables are based on assumptions about risk of default and
expected loss rate. The Group and the Company use judgement in making these assumptions and
selecting inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s and the Company’s past history
and forward-looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
The Group and the Company use a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (“ECL”) for trade
receivables. The provision rates are depending on the number of days that a trade receivable is past
due.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience
with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forward-looking estimates
and expected credit losses is a significant estimate. The amount of expected credit losses is sensitive
to changes in circumstances and forecast of economic conditions over the expected lives of trade
receivables. The Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future.
The information about the impairment losses on the Group’s and the Company’s trade receivables are
disclosed in Note 25(b).
(b) Investment in subsidiaries
The Company assesses impairment of the investment in subsidiaries whenever the events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries may not be
recoverable i.e. the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries is more than the recoverable
amount.
Recoverable amount is measured at the higher of the fair value less costs to sell for the investment in
subsidiaries and its value-in-use. The value-in-use is the net present value of the projected future cash
flows derived from the subsidiaries discounted at an appropriate discount rate. The Company use its
judgement to decide the discount rates applied in the recoverable amount calculation and assumptions
supporting the underlying cash flow projections, including forecast growth rates, inflation rates and
gross profit margin. Cash flows that are projected based on those inputs or assumptions may have a
significant effect on the Company’s financial positions and results if the actual cash flows are less than
the expected.
The carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7.
74
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Group Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2021		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2021 12,896,171 38,201,961 3,639,404 769,450 998,557 6,899,945 63,405,488
Additions 398,368 1,085,329 138,432 2,152 –    279,459 1,903,740
Disposals/Written off (3,400) (164,170) (37,609) –   (178,000) (1,350) (384,529)
Reclassification 13,300 – 3,082 –    – (16,382) –  
Reclassification from right-of-use assets –   101,062 –    –   –    –    101,062
Reclassification to right-of-use assets –    (90,000) – – – –   (90,000)
At 31 December 2021 13,304,439 39,134,182 3,743,309 771,602 820,557 7,161,672 64,935,761
Accumulated depreciation							
 and impairment loss							
At 1 January 2021
Accumulated depreciation 6,951,493 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 –   45,649,803
Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – – – –   – 79,527
7,031,020 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 –   45,729,330
							
Depreciation for the financial year 664,797 1,244,114 91,017 20,229 37,480 – 2,057,637
Disposals/Written off (2,974) (149,658) (33,990) –   (178,000) – (364,622)
Reclassification from right-of-use assets – 29,476 –   – –    –   29,476
Reclassification to right-of-use assets –   (750) –   – – –   (750)
 Accumulated depreciation 7,613,316 34,933,500 3,369,054 675,776 779,898 –    47,371,544
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 –    – –    –   – 79,527
At 31 December 2021 7,692,843 34,933,500 3,369,054 675,776 779,898 – 47,451,071
Carrying amount							
At 31 December 2021 5,611,596 4,200,682 374,255 95,826 40,659 7,161,672 17,484,690
75
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Group Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2020		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 12,259,816 37,887,086 3,645,697 766,470 998,557 391,885 55,949,511
Additions 383,768 592,474 85,520 2,980 –   6,765,479 7,830,221
Disposals/Written off –    (409,743) (91,813) – –   (1,153) (502,709)
Reclassification 252,587 3,679 –   –   – (256,266) –  
Reclassification from right-of-use asset –    128,465 – – –   –    128,465
At 31 December 2020 12,896,171 38,201,961 3,639,404 769,450 998,557 6,899,945 63,405,488
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss							
At 1 January 2020
 Accumulated depreciation 6,329,771 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 –   44,101,711
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 –    – –   –   –    79,527
6,409,298 32,953,134 3,313,035 634,634 871,137 – 44,181,238
Depreciation for the financial year 621,722 1,208,632 88,547 20,913 49,281 –   1,989,095
Disposals/Written off –    (392,192) (89,555) –   –    –   (481,747)
Reclassification from right-of-use asset –    40,744 –    –    –   –   40,744
 Accumulated depreciation 6,951,493 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 –    45,649,803
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 –    – –   –   –   79,527
At 31 December 2020 7,031,020 33,810,318 3,312,027 655,547 920,418 –   45,729,330
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2020 5,865,151 4,391,643 327,377 113,903 78,139 6,899,945 17,676,158
76
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			 Freehold
Group		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2021			RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2021 132,515 7,481,963 5,281,693 12,896,171
Additions –   –   398,368 398,368
Disposals/Written off – (3,400) –   (3,400)
Reclassification – –   13,300 13,300
At 31 December 2021 132,515 7,478,563 5,693,361 13,304,439
Accumulated depreciation				
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2021
 Accumulated depreciation – 4,596,926 2,354,567 6,951,493
 Accumulated impairment loss –    79,527 –   79,527
– 4,676,453 2,354,567 7,031,020
				
Depreciation for the financial year – 156,269 508,528 664,797
Disposals/Written off – (2,974) –   (2,974)
 Accumulated depreciation –   4,750,221 2,863,095 7,613,316
 Accumulated impairment loss –   79,527 – 79,527
At 31 December 2021 –    4,829,748 2,863,095 7,692,843
Carrying amount				
At 31 December 2021 132,515 2,648,815 2,830,266 5,611,596
				
77
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			 Freehold
Group		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2020			RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 132,515 7,481,963 4,645,338 12,259,816
Additions –   –    383,768 383,768
Reclassification –   –   252,587 252,587
At 31 December 2020 132,515 7,481,963 5,281,693 12,896,171
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2020
 Accumulated depreciation –   4,436,327 1,893,444 6,329,771
 Accumulated impairment loss –   79,527 –    79,527
– 4,515,854 1,893,444 6,409,298
				
Depreciation for the financial year –    160,599 461,123 621,722
 Accumulated depreciation – 4,596,926 2,354,567 6,951,493
 Accumulated impairment loss – 79,527 –    79,527
At 31 December 2020 –   4,676,453 2,354,567 7,031,020
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2020 132,515 2,805,510 2,927,126 5,865,151
78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Company Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2021		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2021 11,483,834 35,271,923 3,119,654 714,096 699,379 6,788,205 58,077,091
Additions 398,368 938,928 111,774 2,150 –    205,374 1,656,594
Disposals/Written off (3,400) (164,170) (20,970) –    (178,000) (1,350) (367,890)
Reclassification 13,300 –   3,082 – –   (16,382) –   
Reclassification to right-of-use assets –    (90,000) – – –   –   (90,000)
At 31 December 2021 11,892,102 35,956,681 3,213,540 716,246 521,379 6,975,847 59,275,795
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss							
At 1 January 2021
 Accumulated depreciation 5,927,460 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 –   41,320,011
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 –   –    –   – –   79,527
6,006,987 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 –    41,399,538
Depreciation for the financial year 599,382 1,047,113 79,798 19,914 37,480 –    1,783,687
Disposals/Written off (2,974) (149,658) (17,351) –    (178,000) –    (347,983)
Reclassification to right-of-use assets –   (750) –   –    – –    (750)
 Accumulated depreciation 6,523,868 32,233,336 2,895,104 621,937 480,720 –   42,754,965
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – –    –   –   –    79,527
At 31 December 2021 6,603,395 32,233,336 2,895,104 621,937 480,720 –    42,834,492
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2021 5,288,707 3,723,345 318,436 94,309 40,659 6,975,847 16,441,303
							
79
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
			
Plant		
Furniture		
Capital
			 and Office and Motor work-in-
Company Properties # machinery equipment fittings vehicles progress Total
2020		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 10,847,479 34,963,136 3,114,903 711,116 699,379 391,885 50,727,898
Additions 383,768 586,386 82,370 2,980 – 6,653,739 7,709,243
Disposals/Written off –   (409,743) (77,619) – – (1,153) (488,515)
Reclassification 252,587 3,679 –   – –   (256,266) –   
Reclassification from right-of-use asset – 128,465 – –   –   – 128,465
At 31 December 2020 11,483,834 35,271,923 3,119,654 714,096 699,379 6,788,205 58,077,091
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2020
 Accumulated depreciation 5,375,008 30,689,421 2,834,802 581,427 571,959 –   40,052,617
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 – –   – –   –   79,527
5,454,535 30,689,421 2,834,802 581,427 571,959 –    40,132,144
Depreciation for the financial year 552,452 998,658 73,285 20,596 49,281 – 1,694,272
Disposals/Written off – (392,192) (75,430) –   –   –   (467,622)
Reclassification from right-of-use asset –   40,744 – – –   –    40,744
 Accumulated depreciation 5,927,460 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 –    41,320,011
 Accumulated impairment loss 79,527 –   –   –    –   –    79,527
At 31 December 2020 6,006,987 31,336,631 2,832,657 602,023 621,240 –    41,399,538
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2020 5,476,847 3,935,292 286,997 112,073 78,139 6,788,205 16,677,553
80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			 Freehold
Company		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2021			RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2021 132,515 6,585,010 4,766,309 11,483,834
Additions –    – 398,368 398,368
Disposals/Written off –   (3,400) – (3,400)
Reclassification – –   13,300 13,300
At 31 December 2021 132,515 6,581,610 5,177,977 11,892,102
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss
At 1 January 2021
 Accumulated depreciation –   4,027,195 1,900,265 5,927,460
 Accumulated impairment loss –    79,527 – 79,527
–    4,106,722 1,900,265 6,006,987
Depreciation for the financial year –    138,372 461,010 599,382
Disposals/Written off –    (2,974) –    (2,974)
				
 Accumulated depreciation –    4,162,593 2,361,275 6,523,868
 Accumulated impairment loss –   79,527 –    79,527
At 31 December 2021 –    4,242,120 2,361,275 6,603,395
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2021 132,515 2,339,490 2,816,702 5,288,707
81
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
# Properties consist of:
			 Freehold
Company		 land Buildings Renovation Total
2020			RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2020 132,515 6,585,010 4,129,954 10,847,479
Additions –    –    383,768 383,768
Reclassification –   –   252,587 252,587
At 31 December 2020 132,515 6,585,010 4,766,309 11,483,834
Accumulated depreciation
 and impairment loss				
At 1 January 2020
 Accumulated depreciation –    3,884,493 1,490,515 5,375,008
 Accumulated impairment loss –   79,527 –    79,527
–    3,964,020 1,490,515 5,454,535
				
Depreciation for the financial year –    142,702 409,750 552,452
 Accumulated depreciation –    4,027,195 1,900,265 5,927,460
 Accumulated impairment loss –    79,527 –    79,527
At 31 December 2020 –    4,106,722 1,900,265 6,006,987
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2020 132,515 2,478,288 2,866,044 5,476,847
82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
6.1 Right-of-use assets
The Group and the Company lease several assets and the information about leases of the Group and
the Company as lessees are presented below:
		 Leasehold		 Plant and Office Motor
		 Land Building Warehouse Machinery Equipment Vehicles Total
Group		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020 1,108,357 421,022 –    1,370,970 –   370,162 3,270,511
Additions – 603,716 –    497,365 207,800 –    1,308,881
Depreciation (46,160) (149,116) –   (167,620) (38,097) (47,659) (448,652)
Derecognition –    (360,849) –    –    –   –   (360,849)
Reclassification to property,
 plant and equipment –    –   –   (87,721) –    –   (87,721)
At 31 December 2020 1,062,197 514,773 –   1,612,994 169,703 322,503 3,682,170
Additions -    33,615 469,565 245,000 –    267,642 1,015,822
Depreciation (46,160) (158,042) (52,174) (204,056) (41,560) (63,271) (565,263)
Reclassification from
 property, plant and
 equipment –   –    –    89,250 –   –   89,250
Reclassification to
 property, plant and
 equipment – – –    (71,586) –    –   (71,586)
At 31 December 2021 1,016,037 390,346 417,391 1,671,602 128,143 526,874 4,150,393
Company
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2020 730,828 421,022 –    1,042,470 –    370,162 2,564,482
Additions –     603,716 – 497,365 207,800 –     1,308,881
Depreciation (29,522) (149,116) –     (132,212) (38,097) (47,659) (396,606)
Derecognition –     (360,849) –   –     –    –   (360,849)
Reclassification to property,
 plant and equipment –    –     –     (87,721) –    –     (87,721)
At 31 December 2020 701,306 514,773 –     1,319,902 169,703 322,503 3,028,187
Additions -    33,615 469,565 245,000 -    267,642 1,015,822
Depreciation (29,522) (158,042) (52,174) (172,861) (41,560) (63,271) (517,430)
Reclassification from
 property, plant and
 equipment –   –   –    89,250 –    –    89,250
At 31 December 2021 671,784 390,346 417,391 1,481,291 128,143 526,874 3,615,829
83
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
6.1 Right-of-use assets (Continued)
The Group and the Company lease land, buildings and warehouse for their office space, operation site
and staff accommodation. The leases for land, office space, operation site and staff accommodation
have remaining lease term between 1 to 76 years (2020: 1 to 77 years).
The Group and the Company also have lease for motor vehicles, plant and machinery and office
equipment with remaining lease term between 1 to 5 years (2020: 1 to 5 years).
6.2 Lease liabilities
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Current
Lease liabilities (secured) 486,022 453,024 440,261 379,089
Lease liabilities (unsecured) 296,485 137,525 296,485 137,525
782,507 590,549 736,746 516,614
Non-current
Lease liabilities (secured) 950,587 955,857 884,567 844,076
Lease liabilities (unsecured) 543,878 395,029 543,878 395,029
1,494,465 1,350,886 1,428,445 1,239,105
Total lease liabilities 2,276,972 1,941,435 2,165,191 1,755,719
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Minimum lease payments				
- Within one year 910,825 703,126 858,901 618,645
- Later than one year but not later
 than two years 758,358 587,711 714,174 535,787
- Later than two years but not later
   than five years 854,789 894,388 829,015 824,429
2,523,972 2,185,225 2,402,090 1,978,861
Future interest charges (247,000) (243,790) (236,899) (223,142)
Present value of minimum				
 lease payments 2,276,972 1,941,435 2,165,191 1,755,719
84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
6.2 Lease liabilities (Continued)
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Represented by:
		
Current
- On demand and within one year 782,507 590,549 736,746 516,614
				
Non-current
- Later than one year but not later
 than two years 677,299 513,762 636,394 468,001
- Later than two years but not later
 than five years 817,166 837,124 792,051 771,104
1,494,465 1,350,886 1,428,445 1,239,105
2,276,972 1,941,435 2,165,191 1,755,719
Interest rates are fixed at the inception of the lease arrangement. The effective interest rate is ranging
from 5.64% to 8.93% (2020: 5.64% to 8.93%).
Set out below is the movements of lease liabilities during the financial year:
					
Group Company
					RM RM
At 1 January 2020 1,640,958 1,371,954
Additions 1,235,678 1,235,678
Interest expenses 123,537 106,826
Derecognition (360,849) (360,849)
Lease payments				
- Principal portion (574,352) (491,064)
- Interest portion (123,537) (106,826)
At 31 December 2020 1,941,435 1,755,719
Additions 964,558 964,558
Interest expenses 139,606 129,059
Lease payments				
- Principal portion (629,021) (555,086)
- Interest portion (139,606) (129,059)
At 31 December 2021 2,276,972 2,165,191
85
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
7. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
		Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
			
Unquoted shares - at cost 12,764,671 12,764,671
Less: Accumulated impairment losses (5,827,669) (5,827,669)
6,937,002 6,937,002
Details of the subsidiaries which have principal place of business and are all incorporated in Malaysia are as
follows:
Name of Companies Effective ownership
		 interest/voting rights Principal activities
		 2021 2020
		 % %
Epro Industries Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Property holding
Suria Merah Manufactory 100 100 Property holding
 (Segamat) Sdn. Bhd.
Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah) 100 100 Biscuit manufacturer
 Sdn. Bhd.
Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Hwa Tai Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd. 90 90 Trading
Hwa Tai Import Sdn. Bhd.   100 100 Dormant
Hwa Tai (Sarawak) Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Hwa Tai Services Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Absolute Focus Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Trading
Held through Acetai Corporation
 Sdn. Bhd.			
Anika Bebas Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
Esprit Classic Sdn. Bhd. 100 100 Dormant
The financial information of the Company’s subsidiaries with non-controlling interest is not disclosed as the
non-controlling interest is not material.
86
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
8.		
INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Unquoted shares - at cost 1,791,457 1,791,457 1,791,457 1,791,457
Share of post acquisition losses (1,791,457) (1,791,457) –   –  
–   –    1,791,457 1,791,457
Less: Accumulated impairment losses –   –   (1,791,457) (1,791,457)
			 – – – –
Details of the associate which has principal place of business and is incorporated in the People’s Republic of
China are as follows:
Name of Company Issued share
capital
Effective ownership
interest/voting rights
Nature of the relationship
Chinese Renminbi
(RMB)
2021
%
2020
%
Shan Dong Yingerle
 Hwa Tai Food
 Industry Co. Ltd.*
10,500,000 48 48 Dealers, importers and
exporters of biscuit, cake and
baby products. The activities
contribute to the Group’s
manufacturing segment.
		
* Audited by auditor other than Messrs Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT.
The impairment arose from prolonged decline in value of investment and significant financial difficulty in
associate. Should there be evidence indicating that the performance of the associate is or will be, better than
expected, the Group and the Company will expect a write-back of the impairments.
The Group has not recognised its share of losses of Shan Dong Yingerle Hwa Tai Food Industry Co. Ltd.
amounting to RM526,630/- (2020: RM132,567/-) because the Group’s cumulative share of losses has
exceeded its interest in that associate and the Group has no obligation in respect of these losses. The Group’s
cumulative accumulated losses not recognised were RM659,197/- (31.12.2020: RM132,567/-).
9. INVENTORIES
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
At lower of cost and NRV				
Raw materials 2,917,919 2,597,845 2,397,257 2,003,276
Packing materials 4,033,359 3,197,656 3,281,037 2,810,960
Work-in-progress 452,011 329,359 323,463 243,651
Finished goods 3,379,412 2,948,173 2,846,841 2,440,565
Consumables and spare parts 219,420 185,253 124,070 114,591
11,002,121 9,258,286 8,972,668 7,613,043
87
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
9. INVENTORIES (CONTINUED)
The cost of inventories of the Group and of the Company recognised as an expense in cost of sales during
the financial year was RM54,480,590/- (2020: RM52,539,849/-) and RM47,495,195/- (2020: RM45,743,643/-)
respectively. In addition, the expense and income recognised in profit or loss included the following:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Inventories written down 37,817 125,917 11,120 125,917
Inventories written back (13,212) –   (13,212) –
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
Current					
Trade receivables (a)
Trade receivables 23,521,787 27,646,884 18,652,763 22,450,672
Amount owing by subsidiaries –   –    15,878,516 16,057,689
23,521,787 27,646,884 34,531,279 38,508,361
Less: Impairment loss (b)
- Trade receivables (3,326,344) (3,162,418) (3,039,903) (2,612,332)
- Amount owing by subsidiaries –    –   (15,872,924) (15,960,812)
(3,326,344) (3,162,418) (18,912,827) (18,573,144)
Trade receivables, net 20,195,443 24,484,466 15,618,452 19,935,217
Other receivables					
Other receivables 113,748 125,510 55,773 65,674
Amount owing by subsidiaries (c) –    –   288,312 673,065
Refundable deposits (d) 1,102,320 500,335 1,096,090 494,275
1,216,068 625,845 1,440,175 1,233,014
Less: Impairment loss (b)
- Other receivables (57,789) (57,789) –   –  
- Amount owing by subsidiaries –   –   (142,019) (126,027)
		
(57,789) (57,789) (142,019) (126,027)
Other receivables, net 1,158,279 568,056 1,298,156 1,106,987
Total trade and other
 receivables 21,353,722 25,052,522 16,916,608 21,042,204
88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
(a) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 to 90 days (2020: 7 to 90 days)
terms. They are recognised on their original invoice amount which represents their fair values on initial
recognition.
(b) The movement in allowance of impairment loss of trade and other receivables are as follows:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Trade receivables					
At 1 January 3,162,418 5,415,092 18,573,144 20,865,127
Charge for impairment loss 462,962 918,856 427,571 875,852
Reversal of impairment loss (121,901) (1,270,575) (87,888) (1,266,880)
Written off (177,135) (1,900,955) –    (1,900,955)
At 31 December 3,326,344 3,162,418 18,912,827 18,573,144
Other receivables					
At 1 January 57,789 57,789 126,027 126,027
Charge for impairment loss –    –    15,992 –  
At 31 December 57,789 57,789 142,019 126,027
Trade receivables that are individually determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
debtors that have defaulted on payments. These receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit
enhancements.
Included in trade receivables of the Group are amounts totalling of RM10,083,005/- (2020:
RM11,888,415/-) due from 2 (2020: 2) of its significant receivables.
(c) Amount owing by subsidiaries is unsecured, non-interest bearing, repayable on demand and is
expected to be settled in cash, except for amount owing by one of the subsidiaries represent advance
to subsidiary which is unsecured, subject to interest at rates of 7.42% (2020: 7.42% to 8.18%) per
annum and is expected to be settled in cash.
(d) Included in refundable deposits of the Group and of the Company amount totalling of RM934,132/-
(2020: RM385,680/-) are placed for purchase of machineries as mentioned in Note 23.
The currencies exposure profile of trade and other receivables are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
USD 1,135,030 1,495,425
89
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
11. CASH, BANK BALANCES AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Cash on hand and at banks 5,001,495 1,473,057 4,621,472 1,024,130
Deposits with licensed banks 7,000,000 5,500,000 7,000,000 5,500,000
Cash and bank balances 12,001,495 6,973,057 11,621,472 6,524,130
Less: Bank overdrafts (4,278,798) (2,477,249) (4,278,798) (2,477,249)
Cash and cash equivalents 7,722,697 4,495,808 7,342,674 4,046,881
The foreign currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
USD 2,938 2,973
Others 8,825 8,825
The deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company earn interest at rates ranging from 1.65%
to 1.90% (2020: 1.72% to 2.95%) per annum. Deposits of the Group and of the Company have maturity period
ranging from 7 to 66 days (2020: 14 to 66 days).
12. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amounts
			2021 2020 2021 2020
			
Unit Unit RM RM
				
Issued and fully paid up (no par value):
At 1 January/31 December 74,833,270 74,833,270 29,933,308 29,933,308
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled
to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to the
Company’s residual assets.
90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
Current
Trade payables (a)
Third parties 11,784,050 11,750,059 7,024,102 7,227,406
Amount owing to subsidiaries –   – 393,705 360,355
11,784,050 11,750,059 7,417,807 7,587,761
Other payables
Accrued operating expenses 3,446,632 3,723,886 2,871,280 3,016,035
Other payables 1,655,910 480,410 1,481,399 420,214
GST payable 34,410 114,478 34,410 112,873
Sales tax payable 491,619 564,377 399,663 486,291
Refundable deposits 63,908 126,908 63,908 126,908
Amount owing to subsidiaries (b) –    –    564,670 140,420
5,692,479 5,010,059 5,415,330 4,302,741
Total trade and other payables 17,476,529 16,760,118 12,833,137 11,890,502
(a) The trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally granted on 7 to 90 days (2020: 7 to 90
days) terms.
(b) The amount owing to subsidiaries are unsecured, non-interest bearing, repayable on demand and is
expected to be settled in cash.
The currencies exposure profile of trade and other payables is as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
USD 988,080 59,873
14. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Rebate liabilities 2,700,119 2,929,043 2,368,284 2,816,873
Return liabilities –    15,433 –   15,433
2,700,119 2,944,476 2,368,284 2,832,306
91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
15. LOANS AND BORROWINGS
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
Current
Bankers’ acceptances (unsecured) 18,567,000 15,783,294
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) 4,278,798 2,477,249
22,845,798 18,260,543
The maturities of the loans and borrowings are as follows:
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
On demand and within one year 22,845,798 18,260,543
Bankers’ acceptances
The bankers’ acceptances of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group
and the Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.
The effective interest rates as at reporting date is ranging from 3.53% to 4.96% (2020: 4.09% to 6.33%) per
annum.
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group and the
Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.
The effective interest rates as at the reporting date range from 6.81% to 7.95% (2020: 6.81% to 7.95%) per
annum.
16. REVENUE
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Sales of trading goods 15,581,541 15,548,681 –   –   
Sales of manufactured goods 57,796,868 59,401,736 62,479,967 64,396,311
73,378,409 74,950,417 62,479,967 64,396,311
Timing of revenue recognition:
At a point in time 73,378,409 74,950,417 62,479,967 64,396,311
92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
17. COST OF SALES
Cost of sales represents the production costs, direct material, labour costs and related overheads as well as
the costs of inventories sold.
18. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Interest expenses				
- bank overdrafts 75,573 68,246 75,573 68,246
- lease liabilities 139,606 123,537 129,059 106,830
- trade financing 766,994 771,761 743,117 749,443
982,173 963,544 947,749 924,519
93
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
19. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
in arriving at (loss)/profit before tax:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration:
- statutory audit fee
 - current year 138,200 132,700 97,500 94,000
 - under provision in prior
  years 3,500 1,880 3,500 –
- non statutory audit fee		
 - current year 5,000 – 5,000 –
 - under provision in prior
  years 5,000 – 5,000 –
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment 2,057,637 1,989,095 1,783,687 1,694,272
- right-of-use assets 565,263 448,652 517,430 396,606
Directors’ remunerations: (a)
- salaries and allowances 1,535,616 1,529,998 1,535,616 1,529,998
- fees 125,000 130,000 125,000 130,000
- bonus 121,655 132,128 121,655 132,128
- other emoluments 185,449 170,173 185,449 170,173
- allowance for a director of
 subsidiary 126,700 117,650 – –
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets 74,712 75,112 38,760 38,760
Impairment loss on:
- trade receivables 462,962 918,856 427,571 871,037
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (trade) – – – 4,815
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (non-trade) – – 15,992 –
- investment in subsidiaries – – – 13,404
Inventories written down 37,817 125,917 11,120 125,917
Loss on foreign exchange:
- realised 20,511 144,648 20,329 144,648
- unrealised 13,186 12,581 13,186 12,581
Loss on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment – 13,578 – 13,578
Property, plant and equipment
 written off 5,395 3,343 5,395 3,274
Staff costs:
- salaries, wages and
 allowances 10,818,195 11,233,239 9,360,746 9,773,191
- bonus 1,107,038 1,062,880 994,662 908,089
- defined contribution plans 1,101,198 1,068,685 910,384 875,586
- SOCSO 157,514 157,781 131,683 130,238
- other staff related expenses 649,006 710,246 522,494 628,862
94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
19. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
in arriving at (loss)/profit before tax (Continued):
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
And crediting:
Bad debts recovered 35,437 1,458 – –
Income from other investment – 20 – 20
Interest income 106,386 75,555 115,921 144,371
Income from subleasing
 right-of-use assets 7,200 7,200 26,400 26,400
Inventories written back 13,212 – 13,212 –
Gain on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment 25,604 – 25,604 –
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables 121,901 1,270,575 – 1,261,513
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (trade) – – 87,888 5,367
- investment in associate – 341,653 – –
(a) Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind are as
follows:
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
Executive Director
Director’s fees 20,000 10,000
Salaries 1,415,616 1,409,998
Bonus 121,655 132,128
Other emoluments 185,449 170,173
1,742,720 1,722,299
Non-Executive Directors
Directors’ fees 105,000 120,000
Allowances 120,000 120,000
225,000 240,000
Grand Total
Directors’ fees 125,000 130,000
Salaries 1,415,616 1,409,998
Bonus 121,655 132,128
Allowances 120,000 120,000
Other emoluments 185,449 170,173
1,967,720 1,962,299
95
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
19. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)
(a) Directors’ remuneration (Continued)
The number of directors of the Company whose total remuneration fall within the respective ranges are
as follows:
		 Number of Directors
2021 2020
				 Non- 		 Non-
			 Executive Executive Executive Executive
			 Director Director Director Director
Ranges of remuneration:
RM0 - RM50,000 - 4 - 4
RM100,001 - RM150,000 - 1 - 1
RM1,000,001 - RM1,050,000 - - - -
RM1,400,001 - RM1,450,000 - - - -
RM1,700,001 - RM1,750,000 - - - -
RM1,750,001 - RM1,800,000 1 - 1 -
			1 5 1 5
(b) Key management personnel
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Directors’ remunerations
 (Note 19(a)) 1,967,720 1,962,299 1,967,720 1,962,299
Other key management personnel
- salaries, bonus and other
 emoluments 2,948,349 2,779,093 2,400,893 2,380,606
- defined contribution plans 360,633 341,536 296,122 303,865
5,276,702 5,082,928 4,664,735 4,646,770
96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
20. INCOME TAX CREDIT/(EXPENSE)
The major components of income tax credit/(expense) for the financial years ended 31 December 2021 and
31 December 2020 are as follows:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Statements of comprehensive
 income				
Current income tax:
- Current income tax charge (30,000) (100,000) (30,000) (100,000)
- Adjustment in respect of prior year 68,124 84,819 68,124 84,819
Income tax credit/(expense)
 recognised in profit or loss 38,124 (15,181) 38,124 (15,181)
Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory income tax rate of 24% (2020: 24%) of the
estimated assessable profit for the financial year.
The reconciliations from the tax amount at the statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and the Company’s
tax credit/(expense) are as follows:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
(Loss)/Profit before tax (1,950,637) 1,109,522 (2,856,530) 105,488
Tax at Malaysian statutory income 				
 tax rate of 24% 468,152 (266,285) 685,567 (25,317)
Share of results of associate –   82,486 –    –  
Adjustments:
- Income not subject to tax 8,504 – –    –   
- Non-deductible expenses (676,366) (864,957) (597,067) (687,306)
- Deferred tax not recognised on tax
 losses and temporary differences (123,409) (6,086) (118,500) –   
- Utilisation of previously unrecognised
 tax losses and temporary differences 293,119 954,842 –   612,623
- Adjustment in respect of current
 income tax of prior years 68,124 84,819 68,124 84,819
Income tax credit/(expense) for the
 financial year 38,124 (15,181) 38,124 (15,181)
97
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
20. INCOME TAX CREDIT/(EXPENSE) (CONTINUED)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Deductible temporary differences 805,144 1,495,260 16,724,673 17,221,538
Unabsorbed capital allowances 3,282,902 2,281,627 2,781,152 1,790,538
Unabsorbed reinvestment
 allowances –    563,286 –    –  
Unused tax losses 23,316,279 23,771,278 – –
27,404,325 28,111,451 19,505,825 19,012,076
Potential deferred tax assets 				
 not recognised at 24% 6,577,038 6,746,748 4,681,398 4,562,898
Pursuant to Section 8 of the Finance Act 2021 (Act 833), the amendment to Section 44(5F) of Income Tax Act
1967, the time limit on the carried forward unused tax losses has been extended to maximum 10 consecutive
years. This amendment is deemed to have effect for the year of assessment 2019 and subsequent year of
assessment.
Any unused tax losses brought forward from year of assessment 2018 can be carried forward for another 10
consecutive years of assessment (i.e. from year of assessments 2019 to 2028).
The unused tax losses are available for offset against future taxable profits of the Group up to the following
financial years:
		Group
				31.12.2021 31.12.2020
				RM RM
2028 23,316,279 23,771,278
98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
21. (LOSS)/EARNING PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share
Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share are based on the (loss)/profit for the financial year attributable
to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
financial year, calculated as follows:
		Group
				2021 2020
(Loss)/Profit attributable to owners of the Company (RM) (1,918,666) 1,095,342
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (units) 74,833,270 74,833,270
Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share (sen) (2.56) 1.46
(b) Diluted (loss)/earning per ordinary share
The Group has no potential dilutive of ordinary shares. As such, there is no dilution effect on the (loss)/
earning per ordinary share of the Group.
22. RELATED PARTIES
(a) Identity of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to
control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operational
decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties of the Group include:
(i) Subsidiaries;
(ii) Associate;
(iii) Entities in which directors have substantial financial interests; and
(iv) Key management personnel of the Group and of the Company, comprise persons (including
directors) having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
activities directly or indirectly.
99
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
22. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Significant related party transactions
Significant related party transactions other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are as
follows:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Transactions with subsidiaries
Sales to subsidiaries				
- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. –   –    14,004,293 13,921,636
- Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd. –    –    12,348 1,756
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. – –   309 210,291
- Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd. –   – –   25,756
- Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd. – –    – (1,922)
				
Commission fees paid to subsidiary				
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. –   – (118,939) (124,276)
				
Rental received from subsidiary				
- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd. – –    22,800 22,800
				
Interest received from subsidiary				
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)
 Sdn. Bhd. –   –   9,535 68,816
Transactions with directors,
 substantial shareholders and
 persons connected
Rental of premises paid to a
 company in which certain
 directors are the directors
 and substantial shareholders 144,000 136,000 144,000 136,000
Rental of premises paid to a director				
 and substantial shareholder 33,600 33,600 33,600 33,600
				
Transactions with a company in
 which a director has interest
Legal and consultancy fees paid to				
 a firm in which certain directors
 are partners 5,900 44,250 5,800 44,250
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel include personnel having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the entities, directly or indirectly, including any director of the Group and
of the Company. The remuneration of the key management personnel are disclosed in Note 19(b).
100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
23. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS
		 Group and Company
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
Capital expenditure contracted				
 but not provided for:
 - purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,364,365 432,549
24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Group prepared the following segment in accordance with MFRS 8 Operating Segments based on
the internal reports of the Group’s strategic business units which are regularly reviewed by the Group’s
Chief Executive Director for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance
assessment.
The two reportable operating segments are as follows:
Segments		
Products and services
Manufacturing and Trading		 Manufacturing and trading of biscuits and cakes
The inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and have been
established on terms and conditions that are not materially different from those obtainable in transactions
with unrelated parties.
Segment profit
Segment performance is used to measure performance as Group’s Chief Executive Director believes that
such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries. Performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which is
measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Segment assets and liabilities
The total of segment assets and liabilities is measured based on all assets and liabilities (excluding investment
in associate) of a segment, as included in the internal reports that are reviewed by the Group’s Chief Executive
Director.
101
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
							
Adjustment
							
and
			
Manufacturing Trading Others Total elimination Total
2021			 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Revenue
Revenue from external customer 57,796,868 15,581,541 –    73,378,409 –   73,378,409
Inter - segment revenue A 14,016,950 –    –    14,016,950 (14,016,950) –  
71,813,818 15,581,541 –   87,395,359 (14,016,950) 73,378,409
Results :							
Included in the measure of
 segment (loss)/proft are:
Depreciation of:
- property, plant and equipment (2,034,630) (5,110) (17,897) (2,057,637) –    (2,057,637)
- right-of-use assets (558,526) –   (6,737) (565,263) –    (565,263)
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets (66,120) (31,392) –    (97,512) 22,800 (74,712)
Gain on disposal of							
 property, plant and equipment 25,604 –    – 25,604 – 25,604
Impairment loss on: –
- trade receivables (441,553) (21,409) –   (462,962) –   (462,962)
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (non-trade) (15,992) (22,687) – (38,679) 38,679 –  
Interest income 115,921 –   –    115,921 (9,535) 106,386
Income from subleasing
 right-of-use assets 30,000 –     –   30,000 (22,800) 7,200
Interest expenses (991,708) –    –   (991,708) 9,535 (982,173)
Inventories written down (37,817) – – (37,817) –     (37,817)
Inventories written back 13,212 – –    13,212 –    13,212
Loss on foreign exchange
- realised (20,511) – –    (20,511) –     (20,511)
- unrealised (13,186) –   –    (13,186) –     (13,186)
Property, plant and equipment
 written off (5,395) –     –   (5,395) –    (5,395)
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables 121,901 –   –   121,901 –     121,901
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (trade) 87,888 –   –    87,888 (87,888) –    
Segment (loss)/profit B (1,884,451) 77,412 (94,389) (1,901,428) (49,209) (1,950,637)
Income tax credit 38,124 –     –     38,124 –    38,124
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year B (1,846,327) 77,412 (94,389) (1,863,304) (49,209) (1,912,513)
Other information
Segment assets C 69,601,821 2,727,380 523,622 72,852,823 (5,871,747) 66,981,076
Segment liabilities D 42,750,506 21,920,574 304,293 64,975,373 (19,675,955) 45,299,418
Capital expenditure 2,911,137 8,425 –   2,919,562 –   2,919,562
102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
							
Adjustment
							
and
			
Manufacturing Trading Others Total elimination Total
2020			 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Revenue
Revenue from external customer 59,401,736 15,548,681 –    74,950,417 –    74,950,417
Inter - segment revenue A 14,157,517 –   –   14,157,517 (14,157,517) –   
73,559,253 15,548,681 –    89,107,934 (14,157,517) 74,950,417
Results :							
Included in the measure of
 segment profit/(loss) are:
Depreciation of:
- property,  plant and equipment (1,961,694) (9,503) (17,898) (1,989,095) –   (1,989,095)
- right-of-use assets (441,914) – (6,738) (448,652) –    (448,652)
Expense relating to short-term
 lease and low value assets (66,120) (31,792) – (97,912) 22,800 (75,112)
Impairment loss on:
- trade receivables (871,436) (47,420) –   (918,856) –    (918,856)
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (trade) (4,815) – –   (4,815) 4,815 –  
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (non-trade) –    (6,531) – (6,531) 6,531 –   
- investment in subsidiaries (13,404) –    –   (13,404) 13,404 –   
Income from other investment 20 – –   20 -    20
Interest income 144,371 –   –   144,371 (68,816) 75,555
Income from subleasing							
 right-of-use assets 30,000 –    –    30,000 (22,800) 7,200
Interest expenses (1,032,360) –   –   (1,032,360) 68,816 (963,544)
Inventories written down (125,917) – –   (125,917) –   (125,917)
Loss on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment (13,578) – – (13,578) – (13,578)
Loss on foreign exchange
- realised (144,648) –   –   (144,648) – (144,648)
- unrealised (12,581) –   – (12,581) –    (12,581)
Property, plant and equipment
 written off (3,274) (69) – (3,343) –   (3,343)
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables 1,261,513 9,062 –   1,270,575 –   1,270,575
- amount owing by subsidiaries
 (trade) 5,367 – – 5,367 (5,367) –   
- associate 341,653 –   –    341,653 –    341,653
Share of results of associate (343,692) – – (343,692) –    (343,692)
Segment profit/(loss) B 727,170 47,044 (97,188) 677,026 432,496 1,109,522
Income tax expense (15,181) –    –    (15,181) –   (15,181)
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year B 711,989 47,044 (97,188) 661,845 432,496 1,094,341
Other information							
Segment assets C 65,668,097 3,195,091 551,678 69,414,866 (5,914,123) 63,500,743
Segment liabilities D 36,970,455 22,465,697 237,960 59,674,112 (19,767,540) 39,906,572
Capital expenditure 9,139,102 –    –   9,139,102 – 9,139,102
103
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit or loss and assets are as follows:
A Inter-segment revenue
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
B Reconciliation of profit or loss
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
			
Elimination of inter-segment transactions (49,209) 432,496
C Reconciliation of assets
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
			
Investment in subsidiaries 6,937,002 6,937,002
Investment in associate (2,175,515) (2,175,515)
Inter-segment assets 1,110,260 1,152,636
5,871,747 5,914,123
D Reconciliation of liabilities
					2021 2020
					 RM RM
			
Inter-segment liabilities 19,675,955 19,767,540
Geographical information
Revenue from local and international sales amount to RM60,872,821/- (2020: RM62,856,079/-) and
RM12,505,588/- (2020: RM12,094,338/-) respectively.
Information about major customer
Revenue from 1 (2020: 1) major customer amount to RM28,469,285/- (2020: RM29,471,168/-) arising from
sales of manufactured biscuits.
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Categories of financial instruments
The following table analyses the financial instruments in the statements of financial position by the
classes of financial instruments to which they are assigned:
					
Carrying Amortised
					
Amount cost
					RM RM
At 31 December 2021			
Financial assets			
Group			
Trade and other receivables 21,353,722 21,353,722
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits 12,001,495 12,001,495
33,355,217 33,355,217
Company 			
Trade and other receivables 16,916,608 16,916,608
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits 11,621,472 11,621,472
28,538,080 28,538,080
At 31 December 2021			
Financial liabilities			
Group			
Trade and other payables^ (16,950,500) (16,950,500)
Lease liabilities (2,276,972) (2,276,972)
Loans and borrowings (22,845,798) (22,845,798)
(42,073,270) (42,073,270)
Company 			
Trade and other payables^ (12,399,064) (12,399,064)
Lease liabilities (2,165,191) (2,165,191)
Loans and borrowings (22,845,798) (22,845,798)
(37,410,053) (37,410,053)
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
105
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(a) Categories of financial instruments (Continued)
					
Carrying Amortised
					
Amount cost
					RM RM
At 31 December 2020			
Financial assets			
Group
Trade and other receivables 25,052,522 25,052,522
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits 6,973,057 6,973,057
32,025,579 32,025,579
Company 			
Trade and other receivables 21,042,204 21,042,204
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits 6,524,130 6,524,130
27,566,334 27,566,334
At 31 December 2020			
Financial liabilities			
Group			
Trade and other payables^ (16,081,263) (16,081,263)
Lease liabilities (1,941,435) (1,941,435)
Loans and borrowings (18,260,543) (18,260,543)
(36,283,241) (36,283,241)
Company 			
Trade and other payables^ (11,291,338) (11,291,338)
Lease liabilities (1,755,719) (1,755,719)
Loans and borrowings (18,260,543) (18,260,543)
(31,307,600) (31,307,600)
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
(b) Financial risk management
The Group’s and the Company’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks arising from their
operations and the use of financial instruments. The key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity
risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. The Group’s and the Company’s overall financial risk
management objective is to optimise value for their shareholders. The Group and the Company do not
trade in financial instruments.
106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees to policies and procedures for the management of these risks,
which are executed by the Group’s senior management. The Audit Committee provides independent
oversight to the effectiveness of the risk management process.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group and the Company that may arise on outstanding
financial instrumentsshould a counterparty default on its obligations.The Group and the Company
are exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade and other receivables) and
from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial instruments. The Group
and the Company have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is managed through
the application of credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.
Trade receivables
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade
receivables is represented by the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
The carrying amount of trade receivables are not secured by any collateral or supported by any
other credit enhancements. In determining the recoverability of these receivables, the Group and
the Company consider any change in the credit quality of the receivables from the date the credit
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group and the Company have adopted a policy
of dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss
from defaults.
Credit risk concentration profile
The information on credit risk concentration is disclosed in Note 10.
Analysis on trade receivables
The Group and the Company maintain an ageing analysis in respect of trade receivables as
follow:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
					
Neither past due nor impaired 14,084,870 17,157,102 11,941,207 14,892,487
Past due 1 - 30 days 2,449,731 2,616,356 1,335,688 1,336,644
Past due 31 - 120 days 2,958,004 2,650,034 1,831,439 1,738,695
Past due more than 120 days 702,838 2,060,974 510,118 1,967,391
6,110,573 7,327,364 3,677,245 5,042,730
Impaired 3,326,344 3,162,418 18,912,827 18,573,144
23,521,787 27,646,884 34,531,279 38,508,361
					
107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(i) Credit risk (Continued)
Trade receivables (Continued)
The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide for impairment losses
prescribed by MFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected credit losses provision for
all trade receivables. To measure the impairment losses, trade receivables have been grouped
based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The impairment loss also
incorporate forward-looking information.
The movement of the allowance for impairment losses on receivables is as follows:
		 Trade receivables Other receivables
		 Lifetime 			 Lifetime
		 ECL Credit Total ECL Credit Total
		 allowance impaired allowance allowance impaired allowance
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 January 2021 2,555,987 606,431 3,162,418 –    57,789 57,789
Charges/(Reversal)
 for the year 408,449 (67,388) 341,061 –    –    –  
Written off –    (177,135) (177,135) –   – –   
At 31 December 2021 2,964,436 361,908 3,326,344 – 57,789 57,789
At 1 January 2020 3,007,106 2,407,986 5,415,092 – 57,789 57,789
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year (451,119) 99,400 (351,719) –   – –   
Written off –   (1,900,955) (1,900,955) –    –    –   
At 31 December 2020 2,555,987 606,431 3,162,418 – 57,789 57,789
Company 						
At 1 January 2021 2,504,112 16,069,032 18,573,144 –   126,027 126,027
Charges/(Reversal)
 for the year 408,449 (68,766) 339,683 –   15,992 15,992
At 31 December 2021 2,912,561 16,000,266 18,912,827 –   142,019 142,019
At 1 January 2020 2,985,017 17,880,110 20,865,127 –    126,027 126,027
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year (480,905) 89,877 (391,028) –   – –   
Written off –   (1,900,955) (1,900,955) –   –    –   
At 31 December 2020 2,504,112 16,069,032 18,573,144 –   126,027 126,027
Receivables that are individually determined to be credit impaired at the financial year end relate
to debtors who are in significant financial difficulties and have defaulted on payments.
108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(i) Credit risk (Continued)
Other receivables and other financial assets
For other receivables and other financial assets (including cash and cash equivalents), the Group
and the Company minimise credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.
At the reporting date, the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk arising
from other receivables and other financial assets is represented by the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position.
The Group and the Company consider the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset
and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout
each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the Group
and the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date
with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and
supportive forward-looking information.
Some intercompany loans between entities within the Group are repayable on demand. For loans
that are repayable on demand, impairment losses are assessed based on the assumption that
repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date. If the borrower does not have sufficient
highly liquid resources when the loan is demanded, the Group and the Company will consider the
expected manner of recovery and recovery period of the intercompany loan.
Refer to Note 3.9(a) for the Group’s and the Company’s other accounting policies for impairment
of financial assets.
Finance lease receivables
The credit risk associated with finance lease receivables is mitigated by way of obtaining security
over the leased equipment. At the reporting date, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is
represented by the carrying amounts recognised in the statements of financial position.
As at the end of the reporting date, the Group and the Company did not recognise any loss
allowance for impairment for finance lease receivables.
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group or the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
financial obligations when they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity
risk arise primarily from mismatches of the maturities between financial assets and liabilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arise principally from trade and other
payables, loans and borrowings.
The Group’s and the Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding
and flexibility through the use of stand-by facilities. The Group and the Company maintain
sufficient liquidity and available funds to meet daily cash needs, while maintaining controls and
security over cash movements. The Group and the Company use a series of processes to obtain
maximum benefits from its flow of funds, such that they are efficiently managed to maximise
income from investment and minimise cost on borrowed funds. The Group’s and the Company’s
finance department also ensure that there are sufficient unutilised stand-by facilities, funding and
liquid assets available to meet both short-term and long-term funding requirements.
109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(ii) Liquidity risk (Continued)
Maturity analysis
The maturity analysis of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities by their relevant
maturity at the reporting date are based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations are
as follows:
		 Contractual cash flows
			 On demand		
		 Carrying or within 1 Between 1
		 Amount year and 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM
Group
At 31 December 2021
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables^ 16,950,500 16,950,500 –   16,950,500
Lease liabilities 2,276,972 910,825 1,613,147 2,523,972
Loans and borrowings 22,845,798 23,950,671 –   23,950,671
42,073,270 41,811,996 1,613,147 43,425,143
At 31 December 2020
Financial liabilities				
Trade and other payables^ 16,081,263 16,081,263 –    16,081,263
Lease liabilities 1,941,435 703,126 1,482,099 2,185,225
Loans and borrowings 18,260,543 19,265,674 – 19,265,674
36,283,241 36,050,063 1,482,099 37,532,16
Company				
At 31 December 2021				
Financial liabilities				
Trade and other payables^ 12,399,064 12,399,064 –    12,399,064
Lease liabilities 2,165,191 858,901 1,543,189 2,402,090
Loans and borrowings 22,845,798 23,950,671 –   23,950,671
37,410,053 37,208,636 1,543,189 38,751,825
At 31 December 2020				
Financial liabilities				
Trade and other payables^ 11,291,338 11,291,338 –   11,291,338
Lease liabilities 1,755,719 618,645 1,360,216 1,978,861
Loans and borrowings 18,260,543 19,265,674 –    19,265,674
31,307,600 31,175,657 1,360,216 32,535,873
^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable
110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iii) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s and the Company’s
exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s and
the Company’s operating activities (when sales and purchases that are denominated in a foreign
currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign associate.
Management has set up a policy that requires all companies within the Group and the Company
to manage their treasury activities and exposures. The Group and the Company do not hedge
their foreign currency exposures. In addition, the Group and the Company also takes advantage
of any natural effects of its foreign currencies revenues and expenses by maintaining current
accounts in foreign currencies.
The Group’s and the Company’s unhedged financial assets and liabilities that are not denominated
in their functional currencies are as follows:
				 USD EUR Total
				RM RM RM
Group 				
At 31 December 2021				
Trade receivables 1,135,030 –   1,135,030
Cash and bank balances 2,938 285 3,223
Other payables (988,080) – (988,080)
Net exposure 149,888 285 150,173
At 31 December 2020				
Trade receivables 1,495,425 – 1,495,425
Cash and bank balances 2,973 285 3,258
Other payables (59,873) – (59,873)
Net exposure 1,438,525 285 1,438,810
Company				
At 31 December 2021				
Trade receivables 1,135,030 –   1,135,030
Cash and bank balances 2,938 285 3,223
Other payables (862,780) – (862,780)
Net exposure 275,188 285 275,473
At 31 December 2020				
Trade receivables 1,495,425 –    1,495,425
Cash and bank balances 2,973 285 3,258
Other payables (59,873) –   (59,873)
Net exposure 1,438,525 285 1,438,810
111
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iii) Foreign currency risk (Continued)
Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s principal foreign currency exposure relates mainly to United
States Dollar (‘USD’) and European Union Dollar (‘EUR’).
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the USD and
EUR, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
(loss)/profit for the financial year.
				 Effect on
					 (loss)/profit
				 Change for the Effect
				 in rate financial year on equity
				 % RM RM
Group 					
At 31 December 2021					
- USD + 5% 5,696 5,696
- 5% (5,696) (5,696)
- EUR + 5% 11 11
- 5% (11) (11)
At 31 December 2020
- USD + 5% 54,664 54,664
- 5% (54,664) (54,664)
- EUR + 5% 11 11
- 5% (11) (11)
Company					
At 31 December 2021					
- USD + 5% 10,457 10,457
- 5% (10,457) (10,457)
- EUR + 5% 11 11
- 5% (11) (11)
At 31 December 2020
- USD + 5% 54,664 54,664
- 5% (54,664) (54,664)
- EUR + 5% 11 11
- 5% (11) (11)
112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial risk management (Continued)
(iv) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s and of
the Company’s financial instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s
and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from their long-term loans and
borrowings with floating interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s policy to manage their
interest rate risk is to hedge all material floating rate borrowings using interest rate swaps.
Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest
rates, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
(loss)/profit for the financial year.
				 Effect on
					 (loss)/profit
				 Change for the Effect
				 in rate financial year on equity
				 % RM RM
Group and Company					
At 31 December 2021 +100 173,628 173,628
-100 (173,628) (173,628)
					
At 31 December 2020 +100 138,780 138,780
-100 (138,780) (138,780)
(c) Fair value measurement
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and payables and short-
term borrowings are reasonably approximate to their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature
of these financial instruments.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year (31.12.2020: no
transfer in either directions).
113
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(c) Fair value measurement (Continued)
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s and the Company’s
financial instruments:
			 Fair value of financial instruments
			 not carried at fair value
		 Carrying |-------------------- Fair value --------------------|
		 amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group					
At 31 December 2021					
Financial liabilities					
Borrowings
- Bankers’ acceptances 18,567,000 –   –   18,567,000 18,567,000
- Bank overdrafts 4,278,798 –   –   4,278,798 4,278,798
Lease liabilities 2,276,972 –   –   2,276,972 2,276,972
25,122,770 –   –   25,122,770 25,122,770
At 31 December 2020					
Financial liabilities					
Borrowings
- Bankers’ acceptances 15,783,294 –   –   15,783,294 15,783,294
- Bank overdrafts 2,477,249 –    –    2,477,249 2,477,249
Lease liabilities 1,941,435 –   –    1,941,435 1,941,435
20,201,978 –   –   20,201,978 20,201,978
Company					
At 31 December 2021					
Financial liabilities					
Borrowings
- Bankers’ acceptances 18,567,000 – –    18,567,000 18,567,000
- Bank overdrafts 4,278,798 –   –    4,278,798 4,278,798
Lease liabilities 2,165,191 –   – 2,165,191 2,165,191
25,010,989 –   –   25,010,989 25,010,989
At 31 December 2020					
Financial liabilities					
Borrowings
- Bankers’ acceptances 15,783,294 –    –   15,783,294 15,783,294
- Bank overdrafts 2,477,249 –    –    2,477,249 2,477,249
Lease liabilities 1,755,719 – –   1,755,719 1,755,719
20,016,262 – –   20,016,262 20,016,262
114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
26. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that they maintain
a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratio in order to support their business and maximise shareholder
value. The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and make adjustments to it, in light of
changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may
adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes
were made in the objectives, policies and processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2021 and
31 December 2020.
The Group and the Company monitor capital using gearing ratio. The gearing ratio is calculated as total debts
divided by total equity. The gearing ratio at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
					
Trade and other payables 13 17,476,529 16,760,118 12,833,137 11,890,502
Loans and borrowings 15 22,845,798 18,260,543 22,845,798 18,260,543
Lease liabilities 6 2,276,972 1,941,435 2,165,191 1,755,719
Total debts 42,599,299 36,962,096 37,844,126 31,906,764
Shareholders’ equity 21,669,143 23,587,809 25,071,518 27,889,924
Gearing ratio		197% 157% 151% 114%
27. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF
THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Covid-19 pandemic
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic in
recognition of its rapid spread across the globe. Many countries including the Malaysian Government imposed
the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic
also resulted in travel restriction, lockdown and other precautionary measures imposed in various countries.
The emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic since early 2020 has brought significant economic uncertainties
in Malaysia and markets in which the Group and the Company operate.
The Group and the Company have performed assessments on the overall impact of the situation on the
Group’s and the Company’s operations and financial implications, including the recoverability of the carrying
amount of assets and subsequent measurement of assets and liabilities, and concluded that there was no
material adverse effect on the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
Given the fluidity of the situation, the Group and the Company are unable to reasonably estimate the complete
financial impacts of COVID-19 pandemic for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 to be disclosed
in the financial statements as impact assessment of the COVID-19 pandemic is a continuing process. The
Group and the Company will continuously monitor any material changes to future economic conditions that
will affect the Group and the Company.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
115
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
We, SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE and DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P., being two of the directors of Hwa Tai
Industries Berhad, do hereby state that in the opinion of the directors, the accompanying financial statements set
out on pages 40 to 114 are drawn up in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and
fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2021 and of their financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors.
SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE
Director
DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P.
Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 29 March 2022
I, LEE KIM HONG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Hwa Tai Industries
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the accompanying financial
statements set out on pages 40 to 114 are correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
LEE KIM HONG
MIA Membership No:11927
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 29 March 2022.
Before me,
HADINUR MOHD SYARIF (W761)
Commissioner for Oaths
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
116
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Hwa Tai Industries Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 December 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as
set out on pages 40 to 114.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.  
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
117
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)
Key Audit Matters (Continued)
Group and Company
Trade receivables (Note 4(a) and 10 to the financial statements)
We focused on this area because the Group and the Company made significant judgements over assumptions
about risk of default and expected loss rate. In making these assumptions, the Group and the Company selected
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s and Company’s past history as well as forward-looking
estimation at the end of the reporting period.
Our response:
Our audit procedures included, among others:
• understanding the design and implementation of controls associated with monitoring of outstanding
receivables and impairment calculations;
• developing understanding of significant credit exposures which were significantly overdue or deemed to be
in default through analysis of ageing reports and other collection or legal reports prepared by the Group and
the Company;
• obtaining confirmation of balances from selected receivables;
• checking subsequent receipts and considering level of activity with the customer and the Group and the
Company explanation on the recoverability of debtors with significant past due balances; and
• assessing the reasonableness and calculation of expected credit losses as at the end of the reporting period.
Company
Investment in subsidiaries (Note 4(b) and 7 to the financial statements)
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication of impairment on its investment in
subsidiaries. The recoverable amount of investment in subsidiaries will be determined based on the higher of value-
in-use or fair value less costs to sell once there is indication of impairment.
The assessment of indication of impairment and the determination of recoverable amount both require significant
judgement and estimates. In particular, the Company’s judgement and estimate are required in determining value-
in-use which includes assumptions and inputs supporting the underlying cash flow projections used which includes
discount rate applied, future sales, gross profit margin and operating expenses.
Our response:
Our audit procedures focus on evaluating the cash flow projections and the Company’s forecasting procedures
which included, among others:
• comparing the actual results with previous budget to assess the performance of the business, reliability of
the forecasting process;
• comparing the Company’s assumptions to our assessments in relation to key assumptions to assess their
reasonableness and achievability of the projections;
• testing the mathematical accuracy of the impairment assessment; and
• analysing the sensitivity of key assumptions by assessing the impacts of these key assumptions and inputs
that are expected to be most sensitive to the recoverable amount.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
118
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors of the Company are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
119
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the directors.
• conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
120
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the member of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the contents of this report.
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT Ng Jou Yin
201906000600 (LLP0019411-LCA) & AF 0117 No. 03460/11/2023 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 29 March 2022
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
121
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2022
Class of securities : Ordinary shares
Total amount of shares issued as fully paid : 74,833,270
Voting rights : Registered shareholders are entitled to one vote per
ordinary share held at all general meetings.
SIZE OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Range of No. of % of No. of % of
Shareholdings Shareholders Shareholders Shares Shareholdings
Less than 100 132 3.59 2,620 0.01
100 - 1,000 852 23.20 656,783 0.88
1,001 - 10,000 2,052 55.87 9,849,250 13.16
10,001 - 100,000 589 16.04 16,391,600 21.90
100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares 46 1.25 16,983,450 22.69
5% and above of issued shares 2 0.05 30,949,567 41.36
Total 3,673 100.00 74,833,270 100.00
THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. of % of
Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members Shares Shareholdings
1. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See 21,246,092 28.39
2. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 9,635,975 12.88
(A/C Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See)
3. Teh Leong Kok 3,164,800 4.23
4. Lanjut Bestari Sdn Bhd 1,434,750 1.92
5. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Soo Chung Yee) 1,315,500 1.76
6. Mohd Nasri Bin Abdul Rahim 1,230,000 1.64
7. Yam Lai Mun 1,218,000 1.63
8. Norazman Bin Ahmad 900,000 1.20
9. Tan Leok Kwee 700,000 0.94
10. Syed Alwi Bin Syed Abbas Al-Habshee 400,000 0.53
11. Ng Ah Poh 334,100 0.45
12. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 319,700 0.43
(A/C Rakuten Trade Sdn Bhd for Norhaslina Binti Mohd Hanafi)
13. Zhao, Xiaodan 302,000 0.40
14. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Pui Wee Kuan) 272,500 0.36
15. Lee Sau Kwang 250,000 0.33
16. Kennedy Vijayaraj A/L V Tanikoddy 246,000 0.33
17. Thong Foo Ching @ Thong Chuan Ching 220,800 0.29
18. Sia Ean Son 214,300 0.29
19. Yeo Eng Chong @ Yeo Yong Chong 206,800 0.28
20. Chung Shan Hui 200,000 0.27
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
122
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2022
(CONTINUED)
THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS (CONTINUED)
No. of % of
Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members Shares Shareholdings
21. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Sett Ee-Rian) 199,300 0.27
22. Saw Ah Kee 196,400 0.26
23. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Razana Binti Amran) 174,800 0.23
24. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Lee Nyek) 173,000 0.23
25. Teo Meng How 170,000 0.23
26. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Sii Toh Ping) 155,000 0.21
27. Lim Mooi Tean 154,000 0.21
28. Ahmad Kamarulzaman Bin Ahmad Badaruddin 153,400 0.20
29. Yap Mun Huat 151,000 0.20
30. Chin Nyek Yun 150,000 0.20
Total 45,488,217 60.79
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
According to the Register of Substantial Shareholders required to be kept under Section 144 of the Companies Act,
2016, the following are the substantial shareholders of the Company:
Name of Direct		 Indirect		 Total
Substantial Shareholder Interest % Interest % Interest %
(A)		 (B)		 (A) + (B)
Soo Thien Ming @ 30,949,567 41.36 – – 30,949,567 41.36
   Soo Thien See
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
According to the registers required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the directors’ interest
in the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows:-
Name of Direct		 Indirect		 Total
Director Interest % Interest % Interest %
(A)		 (B)		 (A) + (B)
Soo Thien Ming @ 30,949,567 41.36 – – 30,949,567 41.36
 Soo Thien See
Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P.   1,315,500   1.76 – – 1,315,500 1.76
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See is deemed to have an interest in the equity holdings held by the Company in its
subsidiaries by virtue of his interest in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Other than as disclosed above, none of the other directors hold any share in the Company or its related companies.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
123
LIST OF
GROUP PROPERTIES
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2021
Location
Land
Area
(Sq.ft.)
Build
up Area
(Sq.ft.) Tenure Description
Date of
Acquisition
(A)/
Revaluation
(R) (Year)
Date of
Expiry
(Year)
Estimated
Age of
Building
(Years)
Net
Book
Value
(RM’000)
1 Lot No. PTD 1098 &
& PTD 1099 at Mukim
Linau, Tongkang Pecah
Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
87,120 56,150 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1983 (R) 2037 44 3,391
2 Lot No. PTD 1731 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
43,560 23,745 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1985 (R) 2039 39 145
3 Lot No. PTD 1171 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
43,560 19,670 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1978 (A) 2038 42 280
4 Lot No. PTD 881 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
21,780 6,600 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1991 (A) 2035 42 185
5 Lot No. PTD 1007 at
Mukim Linau, Tongkang
Pecah Industrial Estate,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
21,775 15,923 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
2011 (A) 2036 45 642
6 Lot No. PTD 7028 & 7029
at Mukim Linau,
District of Batu Pahat,
Johor Darul Takzim
1,540
(per unit)
1,540
(per unit)
Freehold 2 units single
storey terrace
houses (Own
Occupation)
1992 (A) – 29 133
7 Lot No. PTD 80369
1 Jalan Impian Ria 6,
Taman Impian Jaya,
Skudai,
Johor Darul Takzim
7,476 1,592 Leasehold 1 unit 2 storey
corner house
(Vacant)
2006 (A) 2097 23 312
8 Lot No. PTD 40 & 41 Lok
Kawi Light Industrial
Estate, District of
Kota Kinabalu,
Sabah
121,908 49,237 Leasehold Factory land &
Industrial buildings
(Own Occupation)
1989 (A) 2042 29 1,387
(This page has been intentionally left blank)
✄
FORM OF PROXY
I / We,.....................................................................................................................................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
being a member of HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD, hereby appoint.
..............................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
or failing him / her.
................................................................................................................................................................
of............................................................................................................................................................................................
or failing him / her the Chairman of the Meeting, as my / our proxy, to vote for me / us and on my / our behalf at the
Forty-Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 9 June 2022 and at any adjournment thereof
in the manner indicated below in respect of the following Resolutions:-
Resolution Resolutions relating to: For Against
Ordinary
Resolution 1
Payment of Directors’ fees
Ordinary
Resolution 2
Payment of allowance to Non-Executive Chairman
Ordinary
Resolution 3
Re-election of Director, Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See
Ordinary
Resolution 4
Appointment of Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT as Auditors and their
remuneration
Ordinary
Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution – Authority to allot and issue shares in general
pursuant to Sections 75 & 76 of the Companies Act, 2016
Special
Resolution
Special Resolution – Proposed Amendments to the Company’s
Constitution
Please indicate with (X) how you wish your vote to be cast.
No. of Shares Held
Date:.................................................. Signature:...............................................................
NOTES:
(1) A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint at least 1 proxy to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy
need not be a member of the Company.
(2) Where a member appoints 2 or more proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be
represented by each proxy.
(3) Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least 1
proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of such securities account.
(4) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor
is a corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.
(5) The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting or
any adjournment thereof.
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES – COVID-19 OUTBREAK SAFETY MEASURES
(1) All attendees to the Meeting including proxies are required to adhere to the Covid-19 outbreak safety measures as stated in the administrative
notes in the Notice of Meeting.
(2) To ensure physical distancing and to reduce the number of crowd at the Meeting, there will be no refreshment served nor distribution of door
gifts/goody-bags to all attendees of the Meeting.
(3) As the COVID-19 outbreak is an ever evolving situation, the venue, date and mode of the Meeting may be changed according to the circumstances
then and any such changes will be publicly announced through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Company No.: 19688-V (New Reg. No.: 197401002656)
THE SECRETARY
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
NO. 12 JALAN JORAK
KAWASAN PERINDUSTRIAN TONGKANG PECAH
83010 BATU PAHAT
JOHOR DARUL TAKZIM
MALAYSIA
Postage
Please fold here
Please fold here
Please fold this flap for sealing
