TABLE OF
CONTENTS
2 Notice of Annual General Meeting
5 Statement Accompanying Notice of Annual General Meeting
6 Administrative Notes – Covid-19 Outbreak Safety Measures
7 Corporate Information
8 Profile of the Board of Directors
11 Audit Committee Report
14 Overview Statement of Corporate Governance
20 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
21 Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls
23 Directors’ Responsibility Statement and Other Information
24 Sustainability Report
31 Statement of Management Discussion & Analysis
36 Directors’ Report
40 Statements of Financial Position
41 Statements of Comprehensive Income
42 Statements of Changes in Equity
43 Statements of Cash Flows
47 Notes to the Financial Statements
115 Statement by Directors / Statutory Declaration
116 Independent Auditors’ Report
121 Analysis of Shareholdings
123 List of Group Properties
Form of Proxy
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
2
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Forty-Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at ** The
Katerina Hotel, Opal Room, Level M, No. 8 Jalan Zabedah, 83000 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia on
Thursday, 9 June 2022 at 11.30 a.m.
AGENDA RESOLUTION NO.
1. To present the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2021 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
–
2. To approve payment of an increased amount of Directors’ fee of RM125,000.00 for
the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
Ordinary
Resolution 1
3. To approve an amount of RM10,000.00 per month as allowance to the Non-Executive
Chairman from the Forty-Seventh Annual General Meeting to the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company thereafter.
Ordinary
Resolution 2
4. To re-elect Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See who retires in accordance with the
Company’s Constitution.
Ordinary
Resolution 3
5. To appoint Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT as Auditors of the Company for
the financial year ending 31 December 2022 and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
Ordinary
Resolution 4
6. To transact any other business appropriate to an Annual General Meeting, for which
due notice shall have been given in accordance with the Company’s Constitution
and/or the Companies Act, 2016.
–
7. As SPECIAL BUSINESS, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions:-
ORDINARY RESOLUTION - AUTHORITY TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES IN GENERAL
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
“That, subject to the Companies Act, 2016 and approvals from the relevant
governmental or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016 to allot and issue
shares in the Company from time to time upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may in their discretion deem fit provided that the
aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
20% of the issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time
being and that such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company, subject to any allotment and issuance
of shares up to 20% of the issued shares of the Company shall be concluded by
31 December 2022, and any allotment and issuance of shares after 31 December
2022 up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company shall
be limited to 10% of the issued shares of the Company calculated on a cumulative
basis of all shares allotted and issued under this mandate.”
Ordinary
Resolution 5
SPECIAL RESOLUTION – PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPANY’S
CONSTITUTION
“That the alterations, modification, additions or deletions to the Constitution of the
Company as set out in Appendix I enclosed with the Company’s Annual Report 2021,
be and are hereby approved.”
Special
Resolution
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
3
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONTINUED)
By Order of the Board
JESSICA CHIN TENG LI
(MAICSA 7003181) (SSM PC No.: 202008002790)
Company Secretary
Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia
27 April 2022
NOTES:
Entitlement to Attend and Proxy
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint at least 1 proxy to attend and vote
instead of him/her. Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 12,
Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia, not less
than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting.
For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company shall be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 57(B) of the Company’s Constitution
and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, to issue a Record of Depositors as at 2
June 2022. Only a depositor whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 2 June 2022 shall be entitled
to attend the Meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on his/her behalf.
Pre-Registration to Attend
1. Members are required to register ahead of the Meeting to allow the Company to make the necessary
arrangements in relation to the Meeting i.e. infrastructure, logistics and meeting venue(s) to accommodate
the Meeting participants.
2. Please do read and follow the following procedures to pre-register your physical attendance at the Meeting
via the TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online :
• Login in to TIIH Online website with your user name (i.e. e-mail address) and password under the
“e-Services”.  If you have not registered as a user of TIIH Online, please refer to the tutorial guide posted
on the homepage for assistance to sign up.
• Select the corporate event: “(REGISTRATION) HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD 47th AGM”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Select “Register for Physical Attendance at Meeting Venue”.
• Review your registration and proceed to register.
• System will send an e-mail to notify that your registration for Physical Attendance at Meeting Venue is
received and will be verified.
• After verification of your registration against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, the system will
send you an e-mail after 7 June 2022 to approve or reject your registration to attend physically at the
Meeting Venue.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
4
3. If you have any enquiry prior to the Meeting, you may contact the Share Registrar at:
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd
Registration No. 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Telephone Number
General Line 603-2783 9299
Fax Number 603-2783 9222
Email Is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Audited Financial Statements (Agenda No. 1)
Item 1 of the Agenda is meant for discussion only, as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016
requires the Directors to only lay before the Company at its annual general meeting its audited financial statements
and thus, does not require a formal approval of the members for the audited financial statements. Hence, this item
of the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
Directors’ Fee (Agenda No. 2)
Based on the annual review of Directors’ remuneration conducted by the Remuneration Committee, the Board
had, at the Directors’ Meeting held on 24 February 2022, agreed to propose for members’ approval an increase in
Directors’ Fee for Executive Directors by RM10,000.00 to RM20,000.00 for the financial year ended 31 December
2021 in the following manner:-
Position in the Board Fees per Director for
Financial Year 2020
(RM)
A
Proposed Increment
(RM)
B
Proposed Fee per
Director for Financial
Year 2021 (RM)
C = A + B
Chairman of the Board 30,000 0 30,000
Executive Director 10,000 10,000 20,000
Non-Executive Director (Senior) 30,000 0 30,000
Non-Executive Director (Junior) 20,000 0 20,000
Name Designation Proposed Directors’ Fee
for Financial Year 2021
(RM)
(proportioned to number of
months in service)
Mr. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See Chairman of the Board 30,000
YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P. Group Chief Executive Director 20,000
En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim Non-Executive Director (Junior) 20,000
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar Non-Executive Director (Junior) 20,000
Mdm. Fong May Khuan Non-Executive Director (Junior) 20,000
Mr. Yee Fook Loong
* (resigned on 30 June 2021)
Non-Executive Director (Senior) *15,000
125,000
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
5
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONTINUED)
Auditors (Agenda No. 5)
The Auditors, Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Ordinary Resolution – Authority to allot and issue shares in general pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act, 2016 (Agenda No. 7)
The proposed Ordinary Resolution on Authority to the Directors to allot and issue shares, if passed, will give full
power to the Directors of the Company to issue shares in the Company up to an amount not exceeding in total 20%
of the issued shares of the Company for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the interest of the
Company. The Company had at the last Annual General Meeting held on 2 June 2021 obtained the mandate from
members to allot up to a maximum of 10% of the total issued shares of the Company. Amid the unprecedented
uncertainty surrounding the recovery of the coronavirus Covid-19 outbreak, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad had,
as an interim measure, allow listed issuers to seek a higher general mandate of not more than 20% of the total issued
shares (excluding treasury shares) for issue of new securities up to 31 December 2022 and after 31 December 2022
the general mandate of 10% of the total issued shares will be reinstated. The Directors is desirous to seek members’
approval for this higher general mandate in order to raise funds expeditiously and efficiently during this challenging
time. This would enable the Directors to take swift action in case of a need to meet funding requirements including
but not limited to working capital, operational expenditure or in the event of business opportunities arise which
involve the issuance of new shares, thus avoiding any delay and cost involved in convening a general meeting to
specifically approve such an issue of shares. This renewed mandate, unless revoked or varied at a general meeting,
will expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares of the Company were issued pursuant to the mandate granted to the
Directors at the last Annual General Meeting held on 2 June 2021, which mandate will lapse at the conclusion of the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Special Resolution – Proposed Amendments to the Company’s Constitution (Agenda No. 7)
The proposed Special Resolution on the proposed amendments to the Company’s Constitution is with the purpose
to align the Constitution with the prevailing statutory and regulatory requirements and to render clarity in the
Constitution. The proposed amendments shall take effect immediately once the Special Resolution is passed by
a majority of not less than seventy-five per centum (75%) of such members who are entitled to vote and do vote in
person or by proxy at the Forty-Seventh Annual General Meeting.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
No individual other than the retiring Director is seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming Forty-Seventh
Annual General Meeting of the Company. The details of the retiring Director standing for re-election are set out in
the Directors’ Profile appearing on pages 9 and 10 of this Annual Report. An assessment on all the retiring Directors
had been conducted by the Nomination Committee.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
6
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES – COVID-19 OUTBREAK SAFETY MEASURES
Health Check and Declaration
In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, your safety is our priority. As a precautionary measure, you are strongly advised
not to attend the Meeting and to appoint proxy(ies) or the Chairman of the Meeting to attend and vote in your stead,
if:-
i. you are unwell with sore throat, flu, cough, fever, diarrhea, shortness of breath or any symptoms of Covid-19;
or
ii. you have travel history to high-risk countries affected by Covid-19 in the past 14 days; or
iii. you have contact with a person who is confirmed with Covid-19 infection in the past 14 days.
No Refreshment and No Door Gifts/Goody-bags
To ensure physical distancing and to reduce the number of crowd at the Meeting, there will be no refreshment
served nor distribution of door gifts/goody-bags to all attendees of the Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
Please scan this QR code to access the digital Annual Report 2021.
The Annual Report 2021 may also be downloaded from the Company’s website www.hwatai.com. Members may
contact the Company or the Share Registrar to receive a printed copy of the Annual Report 2021:-
Company
By mail : Hwa Tai Industries Berhad, No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu
Pahat, Johor, Malaysia
By e-mail : ir@hwatai.com.my
Share Registrar
By mail : Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd, Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
By e-mail /electronically: Is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com or request via https://tiih.online by selecting “Request
for Annual Report/Circulars” under the “Investor Services”,
By Phone or Fax : (Tel) 03-2783 9299 (Fax) 03-2783 9222
Note: ** As the COVID-19 outbreak is an ever evolving situation, the venue, date and mode of the Meeting may be
changed according to the circumstances then and any such changes will be publicly announced through
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
7
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
COMPANY SECRETARY
Jessica Chin Teng Li
(MAICSA 7003181)
(SSM PC No.: 202008002790)
REGISTERED OFFICE &
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS
ADDRESS
No. 12, Jalan Jorak
Kawasan Perindustrian Tongkang
Pecah
83010 Batu Pahat
Johor Darul Takzim
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 607-415 1688
Fax No.: 607-415 1135
CORPORATE OFFICE
No. L9, Jalan ML 16
ML-16 Industrial Park
43300 Seri Kembangan
Selangor Darul Eshan
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-8964 5600    
Fax No.: 603-8964 5400
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See
(Chairman)
Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P.
(Group Chief Executive Director)
Kamal Bin Abd Karim
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
Fong May Khuan
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn Bhd
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-2783 9299   
Fax No.: 603-2783 9222
AUDITORS
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT
Chartered Accountants
Baker Tilly Tower
Level 10, Tower 1, Avenue 5
Bangsar South City
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel. No.: 603-2297 1000   
Fax No.: 603-2282 9980
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
RHB Bank Berhad
Bank Muamalat Malaysia Berhad
AmBank (M) Berhad
Bangkok Bank Berhad
Affin Islamic Bank Berhad
LISTING
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
Main Market – Listed since 1992
WEBSITE
www.hwatai.com
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
8
PROFILE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Soo Thien Ming, Malaysian, male, aged 74, is
the Chairman on the Board of the Company. He was
appointed to the Board on 26 April 1996. Mr. Soo is
a Barrister-At-Law of Lincoln’s Inn, London. He is an
advocate and solicitor by profession and has been in
practice for 47 years. He is also a Notary Public. He
holds several directorships in private companies in
Malaysia and abroad.
He is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee.
Mr. Soo has a direct shareholding of 30,949,567
ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 March 2022
representing 41.36% of the Company’s total issued
shares. He is deemed to have an interest in the equity
holdings held by the Company in its subsidiaries by
virtue of his interest in the Company.
He is the father of YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P., the
Group Chief Executive Director of the Company.
Mr. Soo does not have any conflict of interest with the
Company nor any conviction for any offence, public
sanction or penalty imposed by any relevant regulatory
bodies.
YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P., Malaysian, male,
aged 43, is the Group Chief Executive Director. He
was appointed to the Board on 16 August 2004. YBhg.
Datuk Soo holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University
of Derby, United Kingdom. He was awarded the Asia
Pacific Entrepreneurship Award (Emerging Entrepreneur
– Malaysia) in 2007 and the JCI Creative Young
Entrepreneur Award (Junior Chamber International –
Malaysia) in 2008. He also holds several directorships
in private companies in Malaysia and abroad.
He is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
He is the son of Mr. Soo Thien Ming, the Chairman of
the Company.
YBhg. Datuk Soo has a direct shareholding of 1,315,500
ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 March 2022
representing 1.76% of the Company’s total issued
shares.
YBhg. Datuk Soo does not have any interest in the
securities of the Company’s subsidiaries. He also does
not have any conflict of interest with the Company
nor any conviction for any offence, public sanction or
penalty imposed by any relevant regulatory bodies.
MR. SOO THIEN MING @
SOO THIEN SEE
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
YBHG. DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P.
Non-Independent Executive Director
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
9
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONTINUED)
ENCIK KAMAL BIN ABD KARIM
Independent Non-Executive Director
PUAN AISYAH KAMALIAH BINTI
ABU BAKAR
Independent Non-Executive Director
Encik Kamal Bin Abd Karim, Malaysian, male, aged
43, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2016. He
holds a Bachelor of Laws LLB (Hons) from International
Islamic University Malaysia. Encik Kamal, an advocate
& solicitor, was admitted to the Malaysian Bar in year
2003 and has been practicing at Messrs. Soo Thien
Ming & Nashrah ever since. He is also a partner of the
said firm.
Encik Kamal is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. He
also sits in the Nomination Committee, Remuneration
Committee and Risk Management Committee.
He does not have any family relationship with any
directors and/or major shareholders of the Company.
He does not have any interest in the securities of the
Company or its subsidiaries. He does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company nor any conviction
for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, female, aged
33, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2016. She
holds a Bachelor of Laws LLB (Hons) from International
Islamic University Malaysia. Puan Aisyah Kamaliah is
an advocate & solicitor practicing at Messrs. Ang & Koh.
Puan Aisyah Kamaliah sits in the Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and
Risk Management Committee.
She does not have any family relationship with any
directors and/or major shareholders of the Company.
She does not have any interest in the securities of the
Company or its subsidiaries. She does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company nor any conviction
for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
10
Madam Fong May Khuan, female, aged 39, was
appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018. She is a
member of CPA Australia and the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants. Madam Fong worked with TAMS
Management Services Sdn. Bhd. as an accounts
manager. She was also involved in organising annual
seminars for analysing the Malaysian National Budget.
Madam Fong May Khuan is a member of the Audit
Committee.
She does not have any family relationship with any
directors and/or major shareholders of the Company.
She does not have any interest in the securities of the
Company or its subsidiaries. She does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company nor any conviction
for any offence, public sanction or penalty imposed by
any relevant regulatory bodies.
PROFILE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONTINUED)
MADAM FONG MAY KHUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
11
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
1. COMPOSITION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
Kamal Bin Abd Karim (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar Independent Non-Executive Director
Fong May Khuan * Independent Non-Executive Director
* A member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee which had been reviewed and revised on 24 November 2021
to be consistent with the latest Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance is available in the Company’s
website www.hwatai.com.
3. AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, a total of four (4) Audit Committee Meetings were held.
Details of the attendance of each Committee Member are as follows:-
Name of Audit Committee Member Attendance
Kamal Bin Abd Karim 5 of 5
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar 4 of 5
Fong May Khuan 5 of 5
Yee Fook Loong (resigned on 30 June 2021) 3 of 3
4. ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the activities of the Audit Committee included the
following:
a. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results before recommending them for the Board’s approval
for public announcement. The reviews were conducted through discussions with the Financial
Controller.
b. Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors their audit plan for the financial year ended 31
December 2021 before commencement of the financial year end audit. The matters reviewed and
discussed in the audit plan included the independence of the External Auditors, consideration of fraud,
related party disclosures & procedures, statutory timeline & audit activities, audit & financial reporting
considerations and audit approach towards the impact of coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, risk
assessment & audit approach, focus areas of the audit & key audit matters, accounting developments,
introduction of the External Auditors’ engagement team and responsibilities of the Board of Directors
and External Auditors.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
12
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(CONTINUED)
4. ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)
c. Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors their audit review, significant findings and the
management’s responses in respect of the audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2021. The
matters reviewed and discussed in the audit review included the External Auditors terms of engagement,
independence of the External Auditors, status of the audit and also focus areas of the audit such as
risk management & internal controls, any fraud related matters, related party transactions, significant
audit findings, audit & financial reporting considerations arising from the impact of coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic, matters for control improvements, significant outstanding matters and accounting
developments. The significant audit findings reviewed and discussed included recoverability of overdue
trade receivables and impairment review on investment in subsidiaries, and potential key audit matters
comprising trade receivables and investment in a subsidiary.
d. Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors the Group’s audited financial year end statements
together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports before recommending them for the Board’s approval
for public announcement. The review and discussion also included the potential key audit matters
and the management representation letter. The review and discussion were conducted to ensure that
the audited financial year end statements are drawn up in accordance with the Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act, 2016, and give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the
Group and of their financial performance and cash flows.
e. Reviewed the related party transactions that had arisen within the Company and Group. The Audit
Committee is satisfied that the transactions with directors, substantial shareholders and persons
connected are duly disclosed.
f. Reviewed with the Internal Auditor the internal audit reports, findings and recommendations and
management’s responses, and discussed actions taken by the management to improve the internal
control system in various divisions in the Group.
g. Convened meetings with the External Auditors without the attendance of the management. One (1) of
such meetings was held during the financial year.
h. Reviewed the suitability in terms of performance, competency and professionalism of the External
Auditors to be recommended for re-appointment, and secured the assurance on independence from
the External Auditors.
5. INTERNAL AUDIT
The Internal Audit function involves the implementation of independent and systematic reviews of the
processes and guidelines of the Group and the reporting of their application and compliance to the Audit
Committee and Board of Directors. The Internal Audit function also involves the reporting of the state of
internal control of the various operations within the Group and the extent of compliance with the established
policies and procedures and the suggestion of any additional improvement opportunities in the areas of
internal control, systems and efficiency improvement.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
13
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(CONTINUED)
5. INTERNAL AUDIT (CONTINUED)
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the following Internal Audit activities which were
performed in-house, were carried out:-
a. Mapping of the current state of procedures and process.
b. Testing, evaluating and identifying potential areas that lack internal control.
c. Analysing and assessing certain key operation processes, report findings and make recommendation
for improvements.
d. Reviewing compliance with established policies and procedures, as well as assessing the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
The specific divisions in which Internal Audit was carried out during the financial year are as follows:-
Human Resources (Johor) – Human Resources (Workers under Grades C & D) Department Audit. The Internal
Audit conducted included recruitment procedure, annual manpower turnover rates, breakdown of number of
local & foreign workers, human resources functions, total gross remuneration payout inclusive of  overtime
pay & allowances, procedure for applying approval for foreign workers, calculation of salaries of production
shift workers, human resources development funds (HRDF) contributions & claims, training costs per head
& per man hour,   number of cases of staff injury arising from industrial accidents, safety & health procedure
and accident & incident investigation & reporting procedure.
Finance (Johor) – Petty Cash Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included approval matrix for authorising
petty cash vouchers, safe-keeping of petty cash, types of petty cash payments, system for petty cash
control, method of petty cash withdrawals, petty cash request procedure, amount of monthly petty cash
reimbursements and details of petty cash reimbursements.
Finance (Johor) – Accounts Payable Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included approval matrix for payment
requisitions, internal control of accounts payable procedure, supplier statement reconciliations procedure,
analysis of accounts payable in trade and non-trade creditors, lists of top 10 trade creditors & non-trade
creditors with types of supplies, accounts payable to top 10 creditors.
Logistic & Warehouse (Johor) – Inventory Audit for Finished Goods, Raw Materials & Pack Materials. The
Internal Audit conducted included breakdown of closing inventories, the enterprise resource planning system
(ERP system) used for inventory management, inventory control measures & exercises implemented, stock-
take procedure & inventory-take procedure, daily materials ordering, receiving & returning procedures, internal
control of incoming materials from warehouse to production, variance between physical stock count &
system record, top 5 materials & top 5 finished goods, list of allergen materials, inventory turnover ratio &
inventory holding period, daily finished goods from production to warehouse procedure and goods returned
note from distributors/wholesalers to warehouse procedure.
Finance (Sabah) – Account Receivable & Account Payable Audit. The Internal Audit conducted included
approval matrix on order release form, order release form to customers procedure, promotional application
form procedure, credit sales and receipt cycle, trade debtor ageing, approval matrix for accounts payable,
supplier statement reconciliation process, authorisation for payment procedure, purchase & payment cycle,
major trade creditors with types of suppliers and trade creditors & non-trade creditors ageing.
The internal audit department consists of one personnel who holds a Bachelor degree and who is free from
any relationships or conflicts of interest to carry out the Internal Audit function independently. The current
number of resources in the internal audit department is sufficient to carry out all Internal Audit activities as
the Group is a mid-size organisation. The Group incurred approximately RM70,000/- for the Internal Audit
function during the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
14
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors is committed and continues to ensure the compliance with the principles and best practices
as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“Code”) to ensure high standards of corporate
governance are practiced in the Group. The Board is pleased to provide the following overview statement on how
the Group has applied the principles and best practices as set out in the Code. The details of the Group’s application
of each practice of the Code during the financial year may be downloaded from the Company’s website www.
hwatai.com.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A. The Board.
The Board leads and controls the Group.  The Board is bestowed with the duty and responsibility to ensure the
interests of the shareholders are protected. The duties and responsibilities of the Board which are separated
from that of the management, are spelt out in the Board Charter which is available in the Company’s website.
Where appropriate, formal structures and committees are in place to facilitate the Board in carrying out its
duties.  All Board committees report to the Board.
The Board meets on a regular and scheduled basis, at least 4 times a year.
B. Composition and Board Balance.
The Board comprises 5 members to reflect the interests of the major shareholder, management, and minority
shareholders.
The Chairman, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, heads the Board with an Executive Director
and 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors together bring a wide range of business, financial, industrial and legal experience to lead the
Group in the area of business strategies, performance, utilization of resources, sustainability initiatives and
standards of conduct.
Generally, the Executive Director is responsible for carrying out the day to day operational functions while the
Non-Executive Directors will play the supporting role by contributing their knowledge and experience in the
business strategic plans.
Where areas of conflict of interest arise, the Director concerned will have to declare his/her interest and
abstain from participating in the decision making process.
C. Board Meetings and Supply of Information.
A Board report is prepared prior to the Board meeting and sufficient notice is given to the Directors to review
the papers and agenda for the meeting.
Generally, the Board papers provide information on the operating results, financial, corporate development,
minutes of Board Committees and acquisitions and disposals proposals, if any.
In furtherance of the Directors’ duties, all members, either as full Board or in their individual capacities, will
have access to all information of the Group.
Directors are also free to seek independent advice should the need arise and have direct access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
15
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(CONTINUED)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
C. Board Meetings and Supply of Information. (Continued)
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the total number of Directors’ Meetings convened was 5.
The details of attendance of Directors at these Meetings are as follows:
Name of Director Number of Meetings Attended
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See 5 of 5
Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P. 5 of 5
Kamal Bin Abd Karim 5 of 5
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar 4 of 5
Fong May Khuan 5 of 5
Yee Fook Loong (resigned on 30 June 2021) 3 of 3
D. Appointments to the Board.
In compliance with the Code on the appointment of Directors, the Board had set up a Nomination Committee
to advise the Board on the nomination of new Board members and assess Directors on an ongoing basis.
The duties and responsibilities are spelt out in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee which
had been reviewed and revised on 24 November 2021 and is available in the Company’s website.
The Nomination Committee comprises Mr. Soo Thien Ming, En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan Aisyah
Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors and a majority of whom are independent.
Mr. Soo Thien Ming, who is a Non-Independent Director and Chairman of the Board holds the Chair of the
Nomination Committee as the Board opines that his extensive chairmanship experience will assist in leading
the Nomination Committee with greater professionalism and effectiveness.
The Committee shall make recommendations to the Board on the appropriate appointments of new Directors
and also to fill seats on committees of the Board. In making recommendation to the Board on the candidate
for appointment, the Committee shall determine various criteria objectively including qualities, experience,
skills, level of commitment and time that the candidate can contribute and shall also take into consideration
the composition and mix skills of the existing Board.
Whilst the Committee respects the requirement for gender diversity, emphasis shall first be placed on the
qualities, experience and skills of a candidate irrespective of gender, which would best correspond to the
composition of the Board so as to function effectively and efficiently. Nevertheless, with 2 female Board
members, Puan Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar and Madam Fong May Khuan, the Company fulfilled the 30%
female representation on the Board and this is a testament of the Company’s support for gender diversity.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy had been established on 24 November 2021 and is set out on page
20 of this Annual Report and also available in the Company’s website.
In addition, the Nomination Committee assesses the contribution of individual Board members, the
effectiveness of the Board and the committees of the Board on an annual basis.
During the financial year, the Committee had carried out an evaluation of each Director’s ability to contribute
to the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, including an assessment of the independent directors
on their independence through a formal and objective process. It also evaluated the Directors who were
due for retiring and proposed these retiring Directors to the Board to be put forward for re-election by the
shareholders.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
16
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
E. Re-election.
In accordance to the Company’s Constitution, an election of Directors shall take place each year at an Annual
General Meeting and all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every 3 years.  Directors appointed
by the Board are subject to retirement at the next Annual General Meeting held following their appointments
in accordance with the Company’s Constitution.  All retiring Directors are eligible for re-election.
The tenure of an Independent Director should not exceed a cumulative term of 9 years. Upon completion
of the 9 years, the Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board subject to the director’s re-
designation as a Non-Independent Director. The Board must justify and seek shareholders’ approval in the
event it retains, as an Independent Director, a person who has served in that capacity for more than 9 years.
In addition, if the Board continues to retain an Independent Director after the 9th year, the Board should seek
annual shareholders’ approval through a 2-tier voting process. Under the 2-tier voting process, shareholders’
votes will be cast in the following manner whereby the resolution is deemed successful if both Tier 1 and Tier
2 votes support the resolution:-
• Tier 1 : Only the *Large Shareholders of the Company vote; and
• Tier 2 : Shareholders other than *Large Shareholders vote.
* Large Shareholders means a person who:-
- is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, not less than 33% of the voting shares in the
Company;
- is the largest shareholder of voting shares in the Company;
- has the power to appoint or cause to be appointed a majority of the Directors of the Company;
- has the power to make or cause to be made, decisions in respect of the business or
administration of the Company, and to give effect to such decisions or cause them to be
given effect to.
DIRECTORS’ TRAINING
The Nomination Committee is tasked to facilitate Board induction and training programmes.
All the Directors had attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme within 4 months from their respective dates
of appointment.
During the financial year, the Directors were unable to attend any formal training due to their demanding work
schedules and commitments. Nevertheless, the Directors, all being professionals in their respective fields, are well-
informed of new corporate developments especially in their individual areas of expertise. In addition, the Directors
were also updated by the Management and the External Auditors on any latest material development on various
relevant rules and regulations.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
17
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(CONTINUED)
DIRECTORS’ AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S REMUNERATION
The Board set up the Remuneration Committee to review the policy and make recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration package and benefits annually as accorded to the Executive Directors.  The Executive Directors shall
not participate in the decision makings relating to their own remunerations. The Executive Directors are delegated
to determine the remuneration package of senior management of the Group.
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee had been reviewed and revised on 24 November 2021. The
Remuneration Policy had also been established on the same day. Both documents are available in the Company’s
website.
The members of the Remuneration Committee comprise Mr. Soo Thien Ming, En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors. Mr. Soo Thien Ming, who is the Chairman
of the Board holds the Chair of the Remuneration Committee as the Board opines that his extensive chairmanship
experience will assist in leading the Remuneration Committee with greater professionalism and effectiveness.
Fees payable to the Directors are proposed by the Remuneration Committee to the Board who will then recommend
for shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Generally, the remuneration package will be structured according to the skills, experience and performance of the
Executive Directors to ensure the Group attracts and retains the Directors needed to run the Group successfully,
whereas the remuneration package for the Non-Executive Directors will hinge on their contribution to the Group in
terms of their knowledge and experience.
The breakdown of the Directors’ remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefit in kind during the
financial year ended 31 December 2021 is disclosed below:-
Name of Director Position Directors’
Fees
Salaries Allowance Bonus Other
emoluments *
Soo Thien Ming
 @ Soo Thien See
Chairman RM30,000 – RM120,000 – –
Datuk Soo Chung  
 Yee J.P.
Group Chief
Executive
Director
RM20,000 RM1,415,616 RM121,655 RM185,449
Kamal Bin Abd  
 Karim
Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
Aisyah Kamaliah
 Binti Abu Bakar
Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
Fong May Khuan Independent
Director
RM20,000 – – –
Yee Fook Loong
(resigned on 30
June 2021)
Independent
Director
RM15,000 – – –
* Note: Other emoluments refer to employer’s statutory contributions.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
18
DIRECTORS’ AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)
The Company has a total of 4 personnel in positions of senior manager and above. The breakdown of the
remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefit in kind of these top 4 senior management during
the financial year ended 31 December 2021 in bands of RM50,000 is disclosed below. The disclosure below is not
on a named basis as it is imperative for the Company to maintain employees’ remuneration private and confidential
to avoid unhealthy comparison which might lead to discontentment among employees and an unharmonious
working environment:-
Number of Senior Management
Ranges of Remuneration Salaries Bonus Allowances Other emoluments *
RM0 – RM50,000 – 3 4 4
RM50,001 – RM100,000 1 1 – –
RM100,001 – RM150,000 1 – – –
RM150,001 – RM200,000 1 – – –
RM200,001 – RM250,000 1 – – –
* Note: Other emoluments refer to employer’s statutory contributions.
SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue between the Group and Investors
The Group recognizes the importance of accountability to the shareholders and as such, conveys information on
the Group’s performance, directions, other matters of interest to the shareholders by way of annual reports, relevant
circulars, public announcements, the Company’s website and the issuance of press releases.
Annual General Meeting
Annual General Meeting is used as a primary mode of communication to report on the Group’s performance. Notice
of Annual General Meeting is issued at least 28 days before the date of meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders are encouraged to raise any questions pertaining to any issues
regarding the Group.
The Chairman, assisted by the Directors are available to answer any queries and discuss matters pertaining to the
business activities of the Group.
All resolutions in the Agenda of Annual General Meeting shall be put to vote by poll, and the results of such votes
shall be announced to the public detailing the number of votes cast for and against.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
19
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial Reporting
In preparing the annual financial statements and quarterly financial results, the Directors take steps to ensure a
clear, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s positions and prospects.
The Audit Committee is tasked to review and recommend for Board approval the Group’s annual financial statements
and quarterly financial results.
The Statement by Directors pursuant to section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out on page 115 of this
Annual Report.
Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board recognizes its responsibilities to maintain a sound system of risk management and internal controls
to safeguard shareholders’ investment and Group’s assets. The Risk Management Committee is established to
oversee the Group’s risk management framework and policies. The Risk Management Committee comprises a
majority of independent directors, namely, YBhg. Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P., En. Kamal Bin Abd Karim and Puan
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar.
The review of the system of risk management and internal controls is set out under the Statement of Risk
Management and Internal Controls set out on pages 21 and 22 of this Annual Report. The Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Controls had been reviewed by the external auditors.
Audit Committee / Relationship with Auditors
The Audit Committee works closely with the external auditors and maintains a transparent professional relationship
with them.
A summary of the activities of the Audit Committee during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on
pages 11 to 13 of this Annual Report.
Ethical Conduct and Sustainability
Employees are introduced to the ethical corporate culture of the Group during employee induction and thereafter,
employees are constantly monitored to ensure the culture is upheld in their dealings within the Group and also in
their association with our customers, distributors, suppliers, governmental and regulatory authorities and other
business associates. Any employee may report directly to the Chairman of any ethical misconduct discovered
within the Group. A written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, a written Whistleblowing Policy and a written
Anti-Corruption Policy are established to form a guide to all employees. These said code and policies are available
in the Company’s website.
The Group consistently conducts its business in a manner which underpins sustainability. The Sustainability Report
is set out on pages 24 to 30  of this Annual Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Company continued with its tradition of contributing annually to various schools and non-profit organisations
such as associations of the handicapped and disabled persons and homes for the aged, both monetarily and in-
kind.
OVERVIEW STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
20
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND
INCLUSION POLICY
POLICY
Hwa Tai Industries Berhad is committed to promoting, nurturing and preserving a culture of diversity, equity and
inclusion within the Group.
Our human capital is the Group’s most treasured asset. The summation of the individual differences, experiences,
knowledge, resourcefulness, expressiveness, unique skills and talent that our employees contribute in their work
represents a significant part the Group’s culture, reputation and achievement.
We embrace and foster our employees’ differences in age, colour, disability, ethnicity, marital status, gender identity,
language, national origin, physical and mental ability, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-
economic status, seniority, and other characteristics that make our employees unique.
Hwa Tai Group’s diversity initiatives are applicable but not limited to our practices and policies on recruitment,
remuneration, benefits, compensation, training, promotions, transfers, social programs, layoffs, terminations, and
the ongoing development of a work environment built on the premise of diversity, equity and inclusion that promotes
and enforces:
• Respectful communication and cooperation between all employees.
• Teamwork and employee participation, permitting the representation of all groups and employee perspectives.
• Employer and employee contributions to the communities we serve to promote a greater understanding and
respect for the diversity and equity.
All employees of Hwa Tai Group have a responsibility to treat each other with dignity and respect at all times. All
employees are expected to exhibit conduct that reflects inclusion during work, at work functions on or off the work
site and at all other company-sponsored events.
Any employee found to have exhibited any inappropriate conduct or behaviour against others may be subject to
disciplinary action.
Employees who believe they have been subjected to any kind of discrimination that conflicts with the Group’s
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion policy should seek assistance from his / her supervisor.  However, if the complainant
is not comfortable speaking to the supervisor or not satisfied with the supervisor’s response, the complainant
is encouraged to speak to the Head of Human Resources Department or anyone in management whom the
complainant feels comfortable with.
The supervisor / Head of Human Resources Department / manager must then assist the complainant to submit a
written complaint to the Group Chief Executive Director or the Chairman who will, as soon as reasonably possible,
nominate an appropriate investigation officer who is without any conflict of interest. The investigation office shall
with the assistance, where appropriate, of other individuals in the organisation, investigate the complaint and
prepare a written report containing the findings of the investigation and reasons for the judgement. The report
will be passed to the Group Chief Executive Director and the Chairman. The Group Chief Executive Director / the
Chairman will decide what action to take and ensure the management takes into account recommendations contain
in the investigation report to prevent the conduct from continuing or occurring in the future and takes appropriate
actions to remedy any harm or loss arising from the conduct.
REVIEW
The Board of Directors can modify this Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy at any time without notice. Modification
may be necessary, among other reasons, to maintain compliance with laws and regulation and / or accommodate
organisational changes within Hwa Tai Group. This Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy was approved by the Board
of Directors on 24 November 2021.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
21
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors of HwaTai Industries Berhad (“HTIB”) is pleased to present its Statement of Risk Management
and Internal Controls for the financial year ended 31 December 2021, which has been prepared pursuant to paragraph
15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements and guided by
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Controls: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issues.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for maintaining the Group’s system of Risk Management
and Internal Controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets, as well as for regularly
reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the internal control system. Due to limitations inherent in any system of
internal control, it is important to note that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure
to achieve corporate objectives. Therefore, the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group Chief Executive Director, the General Manager and the Financial Controller had given their verbal
assurance that, to their best knowledge and belief, the Group’s risk management and internal control system is
operating adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal control
system of the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board also recognises that risk management should be an integral part of the Group culture and is a continuous
on going process of identifying, evaluating, minimising and managing of significant risk faced by the Group. The
management is responsible for creating risk awareness culture and to build the necessary environment for effective
risk management. In addition, the Heads of Department are responsible for managing the risk of their department
on a day to day basis. Significant issues related to risk management and internal controls are highlighted to the
Board. If deemed necessary, assistance from external parties shall be consulted on issues in which the Board
needs to seek an opinion.
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
Key elements of the Group’s internal controls that have been in place for the financial year which include the
following:
1. The Group has a well defined organisation structure with clear lines of reporting, responsibilities and level of
authority.
2. There are clear definition of authorisation procedures for major operating functions including purchases,
capital expenditures, payments, credit control and stock control. Authority of the Directors is required for key
treasury matters which include loan and trade financing, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
3. There is a budgeting and business planning process in each financial year to establish plans and targets for
each operating units. The performance of each operating unit is monitored through monthly reports.
4. The Group’s management team meets at least once a month to review and monitor the business development,
discuss and resolve key operational and management issues and review the performance against the
business plan and budget for each operating units within the Group.
The management also highlights any significant issues and changes in the business, major policy matters,
external environment affecting the Group and financial performance of each operating unit to the Board of
Directors and Audit Committee when the Board and Committee meet quarterly.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
22
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
(CONTINUED)
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS (CONTINUED)
5. Adequate financial and operational information systems are in place to capture and present timely and
pertinent business information.
6. The Audit Committee reviews the quarterly financial results and yearly audited financial statements prior to
the approval by the Board of Directors.
7. The Audit Committee also reviews the internal auditor’s reports and monitors the status of the implementation
of corrective actions to address internal control weaknesses.
8. In addition to the internal controls, the Board of Directors and management have ensured that safety and
health regulations have been considered and complied with.
9. The Company was accredited ISO 9002 since 1996 and upgraded to ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems
since year 2002. Documented internal procedures and standard operating procedures have been put in place
and surveillance audits are conducted by the assessors of the ISO certification body to ensure that the system
is adequately implemented.
10. Emphasis is given to food safety. The Company was accredited the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP) system certification since year 2000. The Company continually implements and intergrades
more food safety systems and was certified with ISO 22000 in year 2018. Good Manufacturing Practice is
documented and practiced to ensure food safety.
11. Ecosystem and environmental health are also concerns of the Company. Necessary actions and plans have
been put in place to ensure compliance of company products, activities and services with legal environmental
laws and regulations.
12. In ensuring each operating unit is functioning efficiently, much emphasis is placed on personnel employed.
The professionalism and competence of the staff are maintained through a structural recruitment process,
performance appraisal system and wide variety of training and development programs.
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of Bursa Securities Listing Requirements, the External Auditors have conducted
a limited assurance engagement on this Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls. Their limited
assurance engagement was performed in accordance with ISAE3000, Assurance Engagement other than Audits or
Review of Historical Financial Information and Audit Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, Guidance for Auditors on
the Review of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control included in the Annual Report.
Based on their procedures performed, the External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to
their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance
with disclosure required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls:
Guidance for Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, nor is factually inaccurate. AAPG 3 does not require the
External Auditors to consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control system.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
23
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
AND OTHER INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of the Listing Requirements of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”) to issue a statement explaining their responsibility for preparing the annual
audited financial statements.
The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group as at the financial year end and of the financial
performance and cashflows of the Company and of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements of the Company and of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2021 as set out herein on pages 40 to 114 of this Annual Report, the Company and the
Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates. The Directors also consider that all applicable approved accounting standards have
been followed in respect of the preparation of the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2016.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
OTHER INFORMATION
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving the interests of the
Directors and chief executive who is not a director or major shareholder, either still subsisting at the end of the
financial year or entered into since the end of the previous financial year. The Company and its subsidiaries do not
have any such chief executive.
Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group by the Auditors, Messrs.
Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, during the financial year totalled approximately RM97,500/- and RM138,200/-
respectively.
Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group by the Auditors,
Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, or a firm or corporation affiliated to them during the financial year totalled
approximatelyRM16,500/-andRM31,550/-respectively.Theseservicescomprisedthecomputationandsubmission
of tax and also review of certain statements and information as required by Bursa Malaysia.
Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
The Company did not implement any fund raising exercise during the financial year.
Recurrent Related Party Transaction of a Revenue Nature
There was no recurrent related party transaction of a revenue nature which requires Shareholders’ mandate during
the financial year.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
24
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Hwa Tai Group’s sustainability goal is driven by the Board of Directors.
A working group has been set up to assist the Board in embedding sustainability in Hwa Tai Group’s business
approach. The working group is responsible in determining strategies, policies and objectives on sustainability
matters taking into consideration economic, environmental and social impacts, and also in sustainability
management.
All possible impacts will be evaluated and recommendations will be made in order to have better control on
sustainability matters and also increase efficiency in use of resources.
This working group is headed by the General Manager and assisted by various operating units. Each operating unit
is delegated the responsibility of managing its respective day-to-day operations by integrating sustainability in the
unit’s processes and procedures. All sustainability practice will be monitored by the General Manager who reports
to Group Chief Executive Director (GCED).
RISK
As Hwa Tai Group is a confectionery manufacturer, the main risk area which the working group identified that may
bring impact is food safety issues. We have in placed a product quality and food safety system to mitigate risks
concerning food safety, which is elaborated in the following paragraphs.
General Manager
(Head of Sustanability)
Group Chief Executive
Director (GCED)
Quality & Food
Safety Management
Representative
Senior Purchasing
Manager
International Sales
Manager
Research and
Development
Manager
Human Resource
Cum Safety Manager
Senior Production
Manager
Domestic Sales
Manager
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
25
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
SCOPE
This Statement covers the Group’s operations in Malaysia with main emphasis on quality and food safety control
processes.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS
1. Marketplace
Product Quality & Food Safety System
From data of World Health Organization (WHO), an estimation of 600 million, about 1 in 10 people in the world
fall ill after eating contaminated food and 420,000 die every year, resulting in the loss of 33 million healthy life
years (DALYs). Unsafe food creates a vicious cycle of disease and malnutrition, particularly affecting infants,
young children, elderly and the sick.
As a responsible food manufacturer, we do take seriously in this part by understanding our role in manufacture
of high quality, delicious and reliable products in hygienic conditions in compliance with relevant legislations
and directives. There are several food safety and quality systems in place to ensure our role is achieved and
maintained effectively.
We are successfully certified by SIRIM with ISO 22000 in year 2018 which is a food safety management
system that would provide customer confidence in our products. This is becoming more and more important
as nowadays customers demand safe food. By implementing and practicing ISO 22000 food safety
management system, we managed to ensure and maintain food safety and quality before delivering our
products to the market. Social responsibility is always a part of our business philosophy and we work towards
continuous improvement in our processing line in order to provide safe and healthy food consistently to
customers.
i. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
A management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of
biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to
manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
Through the Critical Control Points system, we identify and analyse elements that may pose any quality
and food safety risk to our products. The control system is developed to bring all possible risk elements
under control. Continuous monitoring on those elements through HACCP procedures, work instruction
and records helps to ensure our products are safe and in good quality to be consumed.
ii. International Organization for Standardization Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015)
A set of policies, processes and procedures is required for planning and execution (production/
development/service) in the core business area of the organization. The system ensures our products
are produced and monitored using zero defect principle in compliance with necessary parameters for
food safety such as colour, odour, textures and etc.
To have a better management of quality system, we are now accredited to ISO 9001:2015. This
standard is based on a number of quality management principles including a strong customer focus,
the motivation and implication of top management, the process approach and continual improvement.
By implement ISO 9001:2015, we can enhance our assurance in providing our valued customers
consistent, good quality products and services.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
26
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS (CONTINUED)
1. Marketplace (Continued)
Product Quality & Food Safety System (Continued)
iii. Halal Assurance Management System
Quoted from Manual Procedure for Malaysia Halal Certification (2014),  the definition of halal according
to Trade Descriptions (Definition of  Halal)  Order  2011  and  Trade  Descriptions  (Definition  of  Halal)
(Amendment) Order 2012 is as follows:
a. When food or goods are described as halal or are described in any other expression to indicate
that the food or goods can be consumed or used by a Muslim, such expression means that the
food or goods are:
i. neither is nor consist of or contains any part or matter of  an  animal  that  is  prohibited  
by  Shariah  law  for  a  Muslim to consume or that has not been slaughtered in accordance  
with  Shariah  law  and  Fatwa;
ii. does   not   contain   anything   which   is   impure/   najs according   to   Shariah   law   and   
Fatwa;
iii. does not intoxicate according to Shariah law and Fatwa;
iv. does not contain any part of a human being or its yield which  are  not  allowed  by  Shariah  
law  and  Fatwa;
v. is not poisonous or hazardous to health;
vi. has not been prepared, processed or manufactured using any instrument that is
contaminated with najs according to Shariah Law and Fatwa; and
vii. has not in the course of preparing, processing or storage been  in  contact  with,  mixed,  or  
in  close  proximity  to any food that fails to satisfy paragraph (i) and (ii).
b. When services in relation to the food or goods are described in any other expression to indicate
that the services can be used by a Muslim, such expression means that the services in relation to
the food or goods are carried out in accordance with Shariah law.
We are proud to claim that all our products are Halal certified and comply with MS 1500:2019.
Thus, our products are safe to be consumed by Muslim.
iv. Internal Management System
In order to ensure completeness and integrity of our food safety and quality system including HACCP
and ISO system, we will conduct internal audit annually. This audit is inter-department oriented to
ensure the entire audit is conducted without any bias and all of our auditors are well trained.
We have conducted our internal audit in September, 2020 and below are the scope we covered;
a. ISO standard MS 9001 : 2015
b. HACCP standard MS 1480 : 2019
c. ISO 22000 : 2018
Besides, our company has also assigned an internal auditor to have counter audit on various functions
in the organization and all the outcomes will be directly reported to Audit Committee.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
27
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS (CONTINUED)
2. Workplace
Employees are the backbones of the business. Essentially employees are central to the smooth functioning
of business operations and play a vital role in the success and sustainability of the Group.
Equal opportunity for employment are provided within the Group. The Group, in fulfiling its corporate
responsibility as a caring employer places emphasis on building long lasting relationships with its employees.
The efforts towards achieving the above objectives are carried out in various aspects:
i. Employees Welfare and Well-being
The success of the Group depends on its employees hard work, loyalty, strong leadership, integrity and
devotion of theirs strengths to help the Group achieves its objectives.
The Group aims to enhance the employees welfare and well-being to build an engaged workforce that
stay focus and grow within the Group.
In pursuing this objective we provide the following:
a) Medical benefits, hospitalisation and Group insurance coverage.
b) Present Long Service Awards in recognition of loyalty, dedication and commitment.
c) Recognition of employees achievement in accomplishing the Company goals by rewarding bonus
and incentives to maintain a high performance work environment.
ii. Safe, Healthy and Conducive Environment
The Group strives to provide a safe, healthy, comfortable and conducive work environment for its
employees through the following initiatives:
a) Ensuring a safe workplace with 24 hours security surveillance.
b) The Group Occupational Safety and Health Committee initiates various health and safety
programs such safe practices in production, forklift safety operating procedure training, fire drills,
fire extinguisher training, as well as safe handling of chemicals.
c) Enforcement and enhancement of safe practices in all aspects at all times.
d) Constantly updating and promoting the awareness of safety precaution and health issues.
e) Safety gears like personal protective equipment i.e. ear plugs, safety shoes, masks, helmets
and others are provided to relevant employees to prevent the consequences of serious injuries.
Employees are required to wear the equipment at all times during work to minimise the effects of
workplace hazards.
f) Maintaining a workplace free of any form of abuse be it physical or verbal harassment and
discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, religion, gender, age or disability by encouraging
employees to report to the management if they have come to know of any such incidents.
iii. Training and Development
a) The Group seeks to promote and develop its human assets to be competent, multi-skilled and
well motivated to increase their career advancement opportunities.
b) To build a more effective workforce, the Human Resources Department develops the Annual
Training Plan, taking into consideration feedback from employees who can suggest the types
of training courses, continuous and structured job related trainings, seminars and workshops to
regularly enhance theirs technical skills and knowledge as well as soft management skills.
c) Requiring all new employees to participate in new employees orientation to get clear insights into
the Group’s operation.
d) Our training programmes are constantly revised and improved based on changing business
needs, and are delivered by internal and external training provider.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
28
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS (CONTINUED)
3. Environment
We take a serious view of impacts on the environments caused by our operations. To ensure our operations
are environmentally responsible, we actively participate and cooperate with local authorities to manage our
waste and energy. Several steps are taken to govern and reduce impacts to the environment.
a. Waste Water Treatment System
Since year 2014 our waste water treatment system has been upgraded to hybrid treatment plant
which consists of chemical treatment and biological treatment process. Due to our manufacturing
operations expanded over the years; the increased wastewater flow gradually exceeded the capacity of
our previous wastewater plant. The difficulty was that we have space constraint which does not allow
us to accommodate massive wastewater treatment solution, thus we needed a hybrid plant that can
effectively treat the effluent.
One of the largest concerns facing is wastewater management. Our effluents are hard to be treated
as it comes with organic matters like fats and oils. Furthermore, inconsistent of influent conditions
brought on by factors such as load shocks, changes in temperature and production will also bring more
challenges in treatment. We need to incorporate a solution that could handle the plant’s peak-load and
fluctuations in wastewater processing.
To optimise the land area, hybrid waste water treatment plant has been designed by our consultant,
which allowed us to achieve wastewater objective without having to compromise on the parameters.
We are firm about maximizing wastewater treatment flow to allow additional capacity for greater flow
treatment requirement. To address that, we implemented a design flow of 50m³/day although the
current capacity required is about 20m³/day. We had also successfully reduced the concentration of
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) from above 3000mg/L to less than 100 mg/L and the moderation of
total suspended solids from above 300 mg/L to 10 mg/l (Standard A below 50mg/L).
With the above monitoring result, we are able to maintain our discharged effluent which contains
parameter within the limit of “Standard A” shown in seventh Schedule (Regulation 12, Acceptable
Conditions For Discharge of Industrial Effluent containing chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) For Specific
Trade Or Industry sector). To maintain performance of our wastewater treatment system, we do assign
a certified internal competence specialist in monitoring of our system. Other than that, daily monitoring
of effluent’s treatment result are also taken place to ensure our effluents complies with standard.
The focus of the waste management is to properly treat the raw wastewater to enable discharge into
local streams and we are always aligned with global environmental sustainability goals.  
b. Waste Management
i. Oil Bund Facility (Palm Oil Storage Tank)
Bund wall is a constructed retaining wall with the function of ensuring potential polluting
substances are handled, processed or stored, for the purposes of containing any unintended
escape of materials.
In order to comply with Environment Quality Act 1974 of Department of Environment (DOE)
Malaysia, an oil bund facility has been constructed to prevent any leakage or spillage from tanks
and pipe of palm oil storage tank to its surrounding which may in turn pose harm on surrounding
biosystems. Holding capacity of the oil bund is 110 percent of our oil storage capacity.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
29
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS (CONTINUED)
3. Environment (Continued)
b. Waste Management (Continued)
i. Oil Bund Facility (Palm Oil Storage Tank) (Continued)
(Approved design of oil bund by DOE)
ii. Scheduled Waste Management
In according to Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005, scheduled waste
means any waste falling within categories of waste listed in their first schedule of regulation.
Schedule wastes shall be stored in separate containers which are compatible with the scheduled
wastes to be stored, durable and which are able to prevent spillage or leakage into environment.
Incompatible scheduled waste shall be stored in separate containers, and such containers shall
be placed in separate secondary containment areas.
In aligned with the regulations, we have our safety and health team lead by certified environmental
professional in scheduled waste management (CePSWaM) to manage our relevant wastes on
both internal and external method.
iii. Replaced Energy Source to Natural Gas
Hwa Tai Group decided to invest in a new facility which enables the production plant to use
Natural Gas as energy source. We successfully converted all existing burning energy source to
Natural Gas in year 2018. Natural Gas is one of the world’s safest sources of energy used in the
industry and it is a better environmental preservation among the alternatives today. Conserving
natural resource and creating a more energy efficient plant would reduce pollution and minimise
harm to the environment.
We are always practicing production process that reduces impact on the environment by allowing
the creation of energy efficient process models. More development and upgrading projects will
be taken into consideration in keeping with our environmentally sustainable goals.
Oil Tank
Pipework
over wall
Pump
Bund wall
Collection
Sump
Moveable
Container
Copyright Reserved Track unload
connection point
Pump
Oil Tank
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
30
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS KEY SECTORS (CONTINUED)
4. Managing Covid-19 Pandemic
The global outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is affecting every part of the production process,
including material supply chain and goods distribution network. The measures taken to control the spread of
the virus have significant effects on the production productivity and efficiency. Therefore, managing Covid-19
has come as a priority and critical in operation management.  
We are continuously improving the production process flow and upgrade on the machinery to enable human-
less and we implement social distancing in the production floor.  This is not only to comply to new standard
operating procedures (SOP) developed by authorities but also the trend on sustainable production in this
industry.
5. Community
Hwa Tai continuously engages with non-government & non-profit organisations to do its part in CSR
programmes such as schools, old folks homes, ‘orang asli’ communities and etc.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
31
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
INTRODUCTION
Hwa Tai Industries Berhad (“Hwa Tai” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are mainly dealing in
manufacturing of biscuits and other confectionery under brand names, among others, HWA TAI, LUXURY and
PESTA.
In addition, the Group is involved in trading and distribution of its own products to various chain of outlets and is
also an original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) for third party’s brand of biscuits.
OUR VISION & COMMITMENT
We are a leading confectionery manufacturer in the region known for its product quality and variety.
Hwa Tai is committed to producing the best quality biscuit products for our customers all over the world and
creating business opportunities for our partners. We have over sixty (60) years of manufacturing experience and
the ability to manage our entire value chain from procurement of raw materials to distribution of finished products.
From the Company’s very first beginning, we have recognised that the skilled and dedicated people who work for us
are critical to our success. We expect high standards from our staff - a team totally committed to the provision of
the highest quality service in the business.
Hwa Tai is a generous company which actively gives its best to the community. We aid the needy every year as our
company is operated by the belief that everyone should “Eat happily, Live healthily & Aid the needy!”.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS
The table below highlights the Group’s key performance in FYE2021 and FYE2020:
FYE2021
RM’000
FYE2020
RM’000
Revenue 73,378 74,950
Cost of sales (54,481) (52,540)
Gross profit 18,897 22,410
Expenses (21,077) (21,454)
Other income 229 497
Share of loss from associated company – (344)
(Loss)/Profit before taxation (1,951) 1,109
Taxation 38 (15)
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year (1,913) 1,094
Gross profit margin 26% 30%
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
32
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS (CONTINUED)
The breakdown of revenue of the Group in FYE2021 and FYE2020:
FYE2021
RM’000 %
FYE2020
RM’000 %
Export sales 12,505 17 12,094 16
Local sales-
Hwa Tai & OEM Products 60,873 83 62,856 84
Total 73,378 100 74,950 100
The Group had registered a revenue of RM73.38 million in the current financial year ended 31 December 2021
(“FYE2021”), a marginal 2% drop from RM74.95 million achieved in the previous financial year ended 31 December
2020 (“FYE2020”).
It attributed decrease of revenue in FYE2021 to reduced sales from local markets in Peninsular and East Malaysia
in general trade segment, partially offset by higher sales recorded from International Sales market and E-commerce
business.
Our international market accounted to about 17% of the Group’s revenue in FYE 2021 as compared with 16% in
FYE2020. The remainder was from the domestic market of 83% and 84% in FYE2021 and FYE2020 respectively.
As our biscuits are part of essential food, our export market was not adversely affected in FYE2021 and its export
sales was on par as compared with previous year. Certain countries like Thailand, Indonesia and Philippines, saw
an increase in demand in our biscuits in FYE 2021 but was partially offset by the decline of sales due to lockdown
in certain countries especially in Middle East due to Covid-19 pandemic. The performance of international market
would have been better but was affected mainly by the exorbitant freight charges that have gone up few folds.  
While our export market has room for growth, we may face challenges with more competition as the market is
getting crowded with more low quality producers surfacing from various other countries, the spread of Covid-19
pandemic, increase in price of commodities, as well as pushing up the cost of freight horrendously.  
The higher domestic sales registered in FYE2020 was due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, Movement
Control Order (“MCO”) was imposed by the Malaysia Government starting from 18 March 2020 to curb its spread.
Malaysians were forced to stay at home for long periods following the imposition of MCO. Social distancing and
other restrictions imposed due to Covid -19 have meant people are not dining out as much as before and caused
the increase in spending on groceries including our biscuits for home consumptions.
FYE 2021, domestic sales fell 3.15% to RM60.87 million from RM62.86 million a year ago, mainly due to the easing
of various MCO, Malaysian started to dine out and spent less on groceries for home consumptions.
To remain competitive in both international and domestic markets, distribution channel improvement, sales force
efficiency and effectiveness, continuous spending on advertising and promotional activities such as, among others,
on-going social media interactions, on-ground events & activities, roadshows, price rebates, engaging promoters,
gondola ends, block displays, mailer supports, prize contests etc.  are carried out for our products to be more
attractive and competitive to consumers.   
The Group reported a loss of RM1.91 million in FYE2021 as compared to a profit of RM1.09 million, a year ago in
FYE2020.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
33
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS (CONTINUED)
The loss reported in FYE2021 was mainly attributed to the Group recording a lower revenue, very much higher
operating cost mainly caused by rising price of raw materials and packing materials due to continuous increase in
price of commodities which are major cost components for our products. The Company had on 10 November 2021
received a notice from the Ministry of Health, Malaysia to temporarily close its factory located at Batu Pahat, Johor,
Malaysia from 11 November 2021 to 20 November 2021 to curb the spread of the coronavirus Covid-19 infection at
the said premise. The temporary suspension had further severely dampened the performance of the Group due to
the delay in delivery of products for both domestic and international sales order.    
The Group had incurred total expenses of RM21.08 million in FYE2021, a marginal 1.76% decrease from RM21.45
million in FYE2020. The expenses were mainly from advertising and promotional expenses, staff cost, depreciation
on property, plant and equipment and impairment loss on trade receivable. These expenses were also formed partly
from selling and distribution expenses, administration expenses and other expenses.
Other income of RM0.23 million in FYE2021 and RM0.50 million in FYE2020 was primarily derived from interests
earned on deposits placed at financial institutions for both of the financial years and reversal of impairment loss for
investment in associate for FYE2020.
The Group had fully provided the impairment loss on the remaining cost of investment in our China associated
company, Shan Dong Yingerle Hwa Tai Food Industry Co. Ltd in financial year ended 31 December 2018 (“FYE2018”).
The impairment loss arose from prolonged decline in value of investment and significant financial difficulty in the
associated company. Thus, there will be no material impact on the Group’s results irrespective of the performance
of the associate neither in FYE2021 or coming years. Should there be any evidence which indicates that the
performance of the associated company is or will be better than expected, the Group will expect a write back of
these impairments.
In compliance with the disclosure of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard, a share of loss of RM344,000 in
this associate was recorded in FYE2020 and the impact was mitigated by a reversal of partial impairment loss of
RM342,000 for this associate which the impairment loss for its remaining cost of investments was fully provided
in FYE2018.
FINANCIAL POSITION
The table below highlights the Group’s financial position in FYE2021 and FYE2020:
FYE2021
RM’000
FYE2020
RM’000
Total assets 66,981 63,501
Total liabilities 45,300 39,907
Shareholders’ equity 21,669 23,588
Total borrowings
(Secured lease liabilities were included)
24,283 19,669
Cash, bank balances and short-term deposits 12,001 6,973
Net assets per share (sen) 28.96 31.52
(Loss)/Earnings per share (sen) (2.56) 1.46
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
34
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
The shareholders’ equity was reduced from RM23.59 million in FYE2020 to RM21.67 million in FYE2021. The
reduction in shareholders’ equity was mainly caused by the loss reported in FYE 2021. Total assets and total
liabilities stood at RM66.98 million and RM45.30 million respectively in FYE2021. An increase of RM3.48 million
and RM5.39 million for total assets and total liabilities respectively were recorded in FYE2021 as compared with
FYE2020. The changes in total assets and liabilities were reflected by reduction in trade receivables, increase of
inventories and cash, bank balances and short- term deposits, mainly offset by increase in loans & borrowings.
Net assets per share and loss per share were 28.96 sen and 2.56 sen respectively in FYE2021 as compared with net
asset per share and earnings per share of 31.52 sen and 1.46 sen respectively in FYE2020.
Investment in capital expenditure of approximately RM2.42 million in FYE2021 primarily comprised the purchase
of machineries amounting to RM1.33 million and the remainder was on factory upgrading, office equipment and
motor vehicles. The Group expects to invest broadly the same in the year ahead so as to keep up with technological
changes where continuous capital expenditure investments are vital to improve efficiency and productivity of our
factory.   
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS
In view of market competition and ever-growing demands from consumers, our Research and Development
division has continuously focused on product innovation, creativeness on developing healthier choices products
for consumers, market research in improving our current products to suit consumers preferences without
compromising on quality.
We have been continuously expanding our customer network by penetration to new markets locally and
internationally, developing and launching new products and also improve our product quality and variety. In line
with the new norm and e-commerce phenomenon, the Group also is working on various online shopping initiatives
to drive sales.   
Apart from the above, the Group has continuously invested in factory upgrading and machineries to improve the
productionefficiencyforcostsavings.Ourfactoryhasbeenrenovatedanddesignedaccordingtofoodmanufacturing
standards in order to reduce the risk of contamination and facilitate the production of safe finished products.
Old factory roof system is removed and reinstalled with new insulated roof system for better manufacturing &
warehousing environment. The project of conversion of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) to Natural Gas, as a source
of burning energy for the production plant which will result in cost savings by approximately 50% was completed
in previous years.
As a player in the food industry, the Group is exposed to the risk associated with product quality and standard
as product safety and quality are of paramount importance to the Group. The risk may have financial impact as
well as reputation impact. Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing, plant & machinery
sanitisation as well as employee personal hygiene to prevent contamination. Also the products traceability and
compliance with stringent quality system are in place too.
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
35
STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(CONTINUED)
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS (CONTINUED)
Our business risk is mainly from potential labour shortages, low profit margin due to stiff competition, price
fluctuations of raw materials and changes in consumer demand. These risks may lead to cost increase which will
affect our profitability if such costs are not able to be passed on to our consumers. To mitigate these risks, our
management has taken steps such as remaining flexible in sourcing raw materials and packing materials from
different suppliers to ensure our Group is not overly dependent on a single supplier without compromising its
product quality. Also, to always update and acquire advanced machineries and improve plant automation to be less
dependent on labour. Compliance with Food and Beverage Standard and licensing/approval from authorities are
vital for us as a biscuit manufacturer. The management seeks to limit these risks by maintaining strict compliance
with the terms and conditions imposed by the respective authorities, procure raw materials from reputable suppliers
which have long standing business relationship with our Group. In addition, the Group is also exposed to interest
rate and liquidity risks as most of our borrowings are based on floating interest rates, where any fluctuation in
interest rates could lead to higher borrowing costs which will again affect the profitability of the Group. We are not
able to fully eliminate the risk of interest rate fluctuation faced and notwithstanding this, the Group will carry out
periodic reviews of cashflow position and funding requirements to manage our exposure to adverse movements in
interest rates.  
DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors is not recommending any dividend in FYE2021.
OUTLOOK AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
We remain cautious of local and global uncertainties as the Covid -19 pandemic situation had yet to stabilise. The
situation is further worsened by the elevated market uncertainty following dispute between Russia and Ukraine.
Moving forward, we anticipate the year ahead to remain difficult and challenging amidst the Covid-19 outbreak.
Local and world economy were badly affected and slowing down, volatility of Ringgit Malaysia against major foreign
currencies and the impact on volatile raw materials and packaging materials costs. These challenges have thus
increased our costs of production and customer acquisition.
We will constantly focus on improving the Group’s performance through the implementation of proactive measures,
enhancing our social media and e-commerce platform advertising and promotional activities to improve our
customer outreach,  the innovation of product portfolio, the broadening of our distributor network, enhancing our
brand recognition and products’ varieties for new business opportunities, cost rationalisation, streamlining of
resources and the enhancement of operational efficiency.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
36
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors hereby submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are that of a biscuit manufacturer and investment holding. The principal
activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these principal activities during the financial year.
RESULTS
				 Group Company
				 RM RM
		
Loss for the financial year, net of tax (1,912,513) (2,818,406)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company (1,918,666) (2,818,406)
Non-controlling interests 6,153 –
(1,912,513) (2,818,406)
DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
The directors do not recommend the payment of any dividends in respect of the financial year ended 31 December
2021.
RESERVES OR PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
allowance had been made for doubtful debts.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the amount written
off for bad debts or the amount of allowance for doubtful debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company inadequate to any substantial extent.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
37
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONTINUED)
CURRENT ASSETS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps
to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had been written down to an
amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed
to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
VALUATION METHODS
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render
adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading
or inappropriate.
CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) any contingent liabilities in respect of the Group or of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
In the opinion of the directors, no contingent or other liability of the Group or of the Company has become enforceable,
or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or
may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial
statements misleading.
ITEMS OF MATERIAL AND UNUSUAL NATURE
In the opinion of the directors,
(i) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year were not substantially
affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of
the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations
of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
38
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, no new issue of shares or debentures were made by the Company.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up the unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS
The directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date
of this report are:
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See*
Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P.*
Kamal Bin Abd Karim
Aisyah Kamaliah Binti Abu Bakar
Fong May Khuan
Yee Fook Loong (Resigned on 30 June 2021)
* Directors of the Company and certain subsidiaries. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See resigned from the
subsidiaries on 9 March 2021.
Other than as stated above, the names of the directors of the subsidiaries of the Company in office during the
financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of this report are:
Yap Lee Yong
Teo Giap Cheng (Appointed on 8 March 2021)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the Register of Directors' Shareholdings required to be kept by the Company under Section 59 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the interests of directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares in the
Company and its related corporations during the financial year were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		
At			
At
		 1 January			 31 December
		 2021 Bought Sold 2021
The Company
Direct interest
Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See    30,949,567 – – 30,949,567
Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P.       879,400 785,200 (349,100)   1,315,500
By virtue of his interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia, Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See is deemed to have an interest in the ordinary shares of the
subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
Other than as stated above, none of the other directors in office at the end of the financial year had any interest in
ordinary shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONTINUED)
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONTINUED)
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive
any benefit (other than benefits included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable, by
the directors as disclosed in Note 19(a) to the financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company
or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a company in which
the director has a substantial financial interest.
Neither during, nor at the end of the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangements where the object
is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of the Company
or any other body corporate.
INDEMNITY TO DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
During the financial year, no indemnity was given to or insurance effected for, any director or officer of the Company.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The available auditors’ reports on the accounts of the subsidiaries did not contain any qualification.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Details of significant events during the financial year and subsequent to the end of the financial year are disclosed
in Note 27 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The details of the auditors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 19 to the financial statements.
This report was approved and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the
directors:
SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE
Director
DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P.
Director
Date: 29 March 2022
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
40
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2021
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 17,484,690 17,676,158 16,441,303 16,677,553
Right-of-use assets 6 4,150,393 3,682,170 3,615,829 3,028,187
Investment in subsidiaries 7 – –   6,937,002 6,937,002
Investment in an associate 8 – – – –
Total non-current assets 21,635,083 21,358,328 26,994,134 26,642,742
Current assets
Inventories 9 11,002,121 9,258,286 8,972,668 7,613,043
Trade and other receivables 10 21,353,722 25,052,522 16,916,608 21,042,204
Prepayments 297,531 293,731 200,422 242,056
Tax recoverable 691,124 564,819 578,624 564,819
Cash, bank balances and
 short-term deposits 11 12,001,495 6,973,057 11,621,472 6,524,130
Total current assets 45,345,993 42,142,415 38,289,794 35,986,252
TOTAL ASSETS 66,981,076 63,500,743 65,283,928 62,628,994
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners
 of the Company
Share capital 12 29,933,308 29,933,308 29,933,308 29,933,308
Accumulated losses (8,578,802) (6,660,136) (4,861,790) (2,043,384)
Translation reserves 314,637 314,637 –    –  
Shareholders’ equity 21,669,143 23,587,809 25,071,518 27,889,924
Non-controlling interests 12,515 6,362 –    –   
TOTAL EQUITY 21,681,658 23,594,171 25,071,518 27,889,924
Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities 6 1,494,465 1,350,886 1,428,445 1,239,105
Total non-current liabilities 1,494,465 1,350,886 1,428,445 1,239,105
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 13 17,476,529 16,760,118 12,833,137 11,890,502
Contract liabilities 14 2,700,119 2,944,476 2,368,284 2,832,306
Loans and borrowings 15 22,845,798 18,260,543 22,845,798 18,260,543
Lease liabilities 6 782,507 590,549 736,746 516,614
Total current liabilities 43,804,953 38,555,686 38,783,965 33,499,965
TOTAL LIABILITIES 45,299,418 39,906,572 40,212,410 34,739,070
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 66,981,076 63,500,743 65,283,928 62,628,994
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
41
STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
					
Revenue 16 73,378,409 74,950,417 62,479,967 64,396,311
Cost of sales 17 (54,480,590) (52,539,849) (47,495,195) (45,743,643)
Gross profit 18,897,819 22,410,568 14,984,772 18,652,668
					
Other income 228,749 497,193 216,136 238,994
Selling and distribution expenses (11,476,944) (11,895,155) (9,568,688) (10,420,031)
Administrative expenses (8,312,464) (8,949,023) (7,185,326) (7,832,651)
Net (impairment losses)/reversal of
impairment on financial instruments (305,624) 353,175 (355,675) 391,027
Share of results of associate – (343,692) –    –  
Finance costs 18 (982,173) (963,544) (947,749) (924,519)
(Loss)/Profit before tax 19 (1,950,637) 1,109,522 (2,856,530) 105,488
Income tax credit/(expense) 20 38,124 (15,181) 38,124 (15,181)
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year (1,912,513) 1,094,341 (2,818,406) 90,307
					
Other comprehensive income,					
 net of tax, items that may be 					
 reclassified subsequently to					
 profit or loss					
Translation reserves of foreign operation –    2,039 –   –  
Total comprehensive (loss)/income
 for the financial year (1,912,513) 1,096,380 (2,818,406) 90,307
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year
 attributable to:					
Owners of the Company (1,918,666) 1,095,342 (2,818,406) 90,307
Non-controlling interests 6,153 (1,001) –    –   
(1,912,513) 1,094,341 (2,818,406) 90,307
Total comprehensive (loss)/income
 attributable to:					
Owners of the Company (1,918,666) 1,097,381 (2,818,406) 90,307
Non-controlling interests 6,153 (1,001) –   –
(1,912,513) 1,096,380 (2,818,406) 90,307
(Loss)/Earning per ordinary
 share (sen) 21				
 - basic (2.56) 1.46
 - diluted (2.56) 1.46
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
42
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
Attributable to owners of the Company
					
Non-
Share Accumulated Translation Shareholders’ controlling Total
capital losses reserves equity interests equity
Group RM RM RM RM RM RM
At 1 January 2020 29,933,308 (7,755,478) 312,598 22,490,428 7,363 22,497,791
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year – 1,095,342 2,039 1,097,381 (1,001) 1,096,380
At 31 December 2020 29,933,308 (6,660,136) 314,637 23,587,809 6,362 23,594,171
Total comprehensive loss
 for the financial year – (1,918,666) – (1,918,666) 6,153 (1,912,513)
At 31 December 2021 29,933,308 (8,578,802) 314,637 21,669,143 12,515 21,681,658
Attributable to owners
of the Company
			 Share Accumulated Total
			 capital losses equity
Company			 RM RM RM
Company			
At 1 January 2020 29,933,308 (2,133,691) 27,799,617
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year – 90,307 90,307
At 31 December 2020 29,933,308 (2,043,384) 27,889,924
Total comprehensive loss
 for the financial year – (2,818,406) (2,818,406)
At 31 December 2021 29,933,308 (4,861,790) 25,071,518
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
43
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating activities:
 (Loss)/Profit before tax (1,950,637) 1,109,522 (2,856,530) 105,488
					
Adjustments for:
 Bad debts recovered (35,437) (1,458) –    –   
 Depreciation of:
 - property, plant and equipment 2,057,637 1,989,095 1,783,687 1,694,272
 - right-of-use assets 565,263 448,652 517,430 396,606
 (Gain)/Loss on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment (25,604) 13,578 (25,604) 13,578
 Impairment loss on:
 - trade receivables 462,962 918,856 427,571 871,037
 - amount owing by subsidiaries
  (trade) –   – –    4,815
 - amount owing by subsidiaries
  (non-trade) –    –   15,992 –   
 - investment in subsidiaries –    –   –   13,404
 Income from other investment –    (20) –   (20)
 Interest income (106,386) (75,555) (115,921) (144,371)
 Interest expenses 982,173 963,544 947,749 924,519
 Inventories written down 37,817 125,917 11,120 125,917
 Inventories written back (13,212) –    (13,212) –   
 Net loss on unrealised foreign
  exchange 13,186 12,581 13,186 12,581
 Property, plant and equipment
  written off 5,395 3,343 5,395 3,274
 Reversal of impairment loss on:
 - trade receivables (121,901) (1,270,575) –    (1,261,513)
 - amount owing by subsidiaries
  (trade) –    –    (87,888) (5,367)
 - investment in associate –    (341,653) –    –   
 Share of results of associate –   343,692 –    –  
Operating profit before changes in					
 working capital 1,871,256 4,239,519 622,975 2,754,220
Changes in working capital:
 Inventories (1,768,440) (1,157,609) (1,357,533) (491,859)
 Receivables 3,379,990 1,253,547 3,371,982 1,192,820
 Prepayments (3,800) (11,369) 41,634 7,783
 Payables 472,054 232,534 54,363 41,770
Net cash generated from 					
 operations, carried forward 3,951,060 4,556,622 2,733,421 3,504,734
					
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
44
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
(CONTINUED)
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating 					
 activities (Continued)					
Net cash generated from					
 operations, brought forward 3,951,060 4,556,622 2,733,421 3,504,734
 Interest paid (49,040) (27,900) (49,040) (27,900)
 Income tax paid (423,000) (330,000) (310,500) (330,000)
 Income tax refunded 334,819 –    334,819 –   
Net cash from operating activities 3,813,839 4,198,722 2,708,700 3,146,834
Cash flows from investing activities:					
 Interest received 106,386 75,555 115,921 144,371
 Proceeds from disposal of property,
  plant and equipment 40,116 4,041 40,116 4,041
 Proceeds from disposal of
  other investment –   1,447 –   1,447
 Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and right-of-use
  assets (a) (1,955,004) (7,903,424) (1,707,858) (7,782,446)
Repayment from subsidiaries – –    809,003 655,157
Net cash used in investing activities (1,808,502) (7,822,381) (742,818) (6,977,430)
Cash flows from financing activities:					
 Repayment of short term
  borrowings (b) (89,772,196) (85,071,153) (89,772,196) (85,071,153)
 Drawdown of short term
  borrowings (b) 92,555,902 88,891,447 92,555,902 88,891,447
 Payment of lease liabilities (b) (629,021) (574,352) (555,086) (491,064)
 Interest paid (933,133) (935,644) (898,709) (896,619)
Net cash from financing activities 1,221,552 2,310,298 1,329,911 2,432,611
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN
 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 3,226,889 (1,313,361) 3,295,793 (1,397,985)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 AT BEGINNING OF THE FINANCIAL
 YEAR 4,495,808 5,809,169 4,046,881 5,444,866
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT
 END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 11 7,722,697 4,495,808 7,342,674 4,046,881
					
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
45
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
(CONTINUED)
a) During the financial year, the Group and the Company made the following cash payments for the purchase of
property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
		 RM RM RM RM
Purchase of property, plant and
 equipment 2,919,562 9,139,102 2,672,416 9,018,124
and right-of-use assets
Financed by way of lease arrangement (964,558) (1,235,678) (964,558) (1,235,678)
Cash payments on purchase of property,
 plant and equipment and right-of-use
 assets 1,955,004 7,903,424 1,707,858 7,782,446
(b) Reconciliation of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows:
			 At		 At
			 1 January Cash Non-cash 31 December
			2021 Flows Acquisition 2021
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 6 1,941,435 (629,021) 964,558 2,276,972
Bankers’ acceptance 15 15,783,294 2,783,706 –   18,567,000
17,724,729 2,154,685 964,558 20,843,972
Company
Lease liabilities 6 1,755,719 (555,086) 964,558 2,165,191
Bankers’ acceptance 15 15,783,294 2,783,706 –    18,567,000
17,539,013 2,228,620 964,558 20,732,191
			
At				
At
			 1 January Cash Non-cash 		 31 December
			 2020 flows Acquisition Derecognition 2020
		 Note RM RM RM 		 RM
Group
Lease liabilities 6 1,640,958 (574,352) 1,235,678 (360,849) 1,941,435
Bankers’ acceptance 15 11,963,000 3,820,294 –   –    15,783,294
13,603,958 3,245,942 1,235,678 (360,849) 17,724,729
Company
Lease liabilities 6 1,371,954 (491,064) 1,235,678 (360,849) 1,755,719
Bankers’ acceptance 15 11,963,000 3,820,294 –    –   15,783,294
13,334,954 3,329,230 1,235,678 (360,849) 17,539,013
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
46
(c) Total cash outflows for leases as a lessee:
Group Company
		2021 2020 2021 2020
Note RM RM RM RM
Included in net cash from
 operating activities:
Payment relating to
 short-term leases 19 59,760 59,760 33,600 33,600
Payment relating to leases
 of low-value assets 19 14,952 15,352 5,160 5,160
Interest paid in relation to
 lease liabilities (unsecured) 18 49,040 27,900 49,040 27,900
Included in net cash from
 financing activities:
Payment of lease liabilities 629,021 574,352 555,086 491,064
Interest paid in relation to
 lease liabilities (secured) 18 90,566 95,637 80,019 78,930
Total cash outflows for
 leases 843,339 773,001 722,905 636,654
							
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021
(CONTINUED)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
