Notice of Annual General Meeting 2
Corporate Information 8
Profile of Directors 10
Profile of Key Senior Management 14
Corporate Governance Overview
Statement
16
Sustainability Statement 33
Audit Committee Report 53
Statement of Directors’
Responsibility for preparing the
Financial Statements
57
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
58
Additional Compliance
Information
60
Management Discussion and
Analysis
63
Analysis of Shareholdings 66
Analysis of Warrant A Holdings 69
Corporate Structure 72
Directors’ Report 73
Statement by Directors 78
Statutory Declaration 78
Independent Auditors’ Report 79
Statements of Comprehensive
Income
84
Statements of Financial Position 85
Statements of Changes in Equity 87
Statements of Cash Flows 90
Notes to the Financial Statements 94
List of Properties 160
Form of Proxy
C O N T E N T S
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
2
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Thirtieth (“30th”) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad
will be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur on Thursday,
28 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the following purposes:-
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30
June 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to the
Note No. 6)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors
amounting to RM204,000 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year
ending 30 June 2025 and thereafter.
(Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000
from 29 November 2024 until the next AGM of the Company.
(Resolution 2)
4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
themselves for re-election:-
(a) Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad; and
(b) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun
(Resolution 3)
(Resolution 4)
5. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
themselves for re-election:-
(a) Mr. Hong Kok Cheong; and
(b) Mr.Tam Kok Meng.
(Resolution 5)
(Resolution 6)
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan as Auditors of the Company
until the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration.
(Resolution 7)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following
Ordinary Resolutions:-
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 1
- AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016 AND
WAIVER OF PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution
of the Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to
issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company from time to time at such
price and upon such terms and conditions, for such purposes and to such
person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in their absolute discretion
deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant
to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares of the Company for the time being;
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of
the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the
statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered
new shares of the Company ranking equally to the existing issued shares arising
from any issuance of new shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Act;
AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa
Securities; AND FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately
upon the passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
(Resolution 8)
3
Annual Report 2024
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 2
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING
NATURE
“THAT subject to the provisions of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements, approval be and is hereby given for the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into and to give effect to the category of the
recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature from time to
time with the related parties as specified in Section 2.5 of the Circular/Statement
to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024, provided that such transactions are:-
(i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;
(ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;
(iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms
which are not more favourable to the related parties than those generally
available to the public; and
(iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,
(the “Mandate”);
AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution
and shall continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed,at which
time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM
of the Company, the authority is renewed;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
Companies Act 2016 (but shall not extend beyond such extension as may
be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Companies Act 2016); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of
the Company in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such
acts and things (including executing all such documents as may be required),
as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
(Resolution 9)
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
4
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 3
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS
OWN SHARES
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market
Listing Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations
and guidelines for the time being in force and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, approval be and is hereby given
for the Company to purchase such number of ordinary shares as may be
determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa
Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit,
necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-
(a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by
the Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per centum
(10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on
Bursa Securities as at the point of purchase; and
(b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of
purchasing its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits
of the Company based on the latest audited financial statements and/or
the latest unaudited financial statements (where applicable) available at
the time of the purchase.
THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and
shall continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company following this AGM at which this resolution was passed,at which
time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM
of the Company,the authority is renewed,either unconditionally or subject
to conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date is required by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of
the Company in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own
ordinary shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the
ordinary shares purchased in their absolute discretion in the following manners:-
(a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or
(b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution
as dividend to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa
Securities and/or transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any)
and/or transfer as purchase consideration; and/or
(c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or
in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders
made pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any
other relevant authority for the time being in force.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts,
deeds and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best
interest of the Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share
Buy-Back Authority with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications,
variations and/or amendments as may be imposed by the relevant authorities
and to take all such steps, and do all such acts and things as they may deem
fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”
(Resolution 10)
5
Annual Report 2024
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
10. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
given.
By Order of the Board of Directors
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
YEE KIT YENG (MAICSA 7068292 / SSM PC NO.: 202208000022)
Company Secretaries
Dated: 30 October 2024
Explanatory Notes to Special Business:
1. Resolutions 3 and 4 – Re-election of Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 115 of the Constitution of
the Company
Pursuant to Clause 115 of the Constitution of the Company, Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng
Chun are due to retire by rotation at the forthcoming 30th AGM of the Company. Both Encik Adnan Bin
Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng Chun have indicated their willingness to seek for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 30th AGM
of the Company, the Board of Directors through its Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
had reviewed and assessed each of the retiring Directors from the fit and proper assessment, annual
assessment and evaluation of the Board of Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2024. Based on
the recommendation of the NRC,the Board of Directors is satisfied with the performance and contributions
of the retiring Directors namely, Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng Chun and supports the re-
election based on the following considerations:
(i) able to meet the Board of Directors’ expectations in terms of character, experience, integrity,
competency and time commitment in discharging their roles as Directors of the Company; and
(ii) exercised due care and carried out professional duties proficiently.
2. Resolutions 5 and 6 – Re-election of Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 114 of the Constitution of
the Company
Pursuant to Clause 114 of the Constitution of the Company, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr.Tam Kok Meng
are due to retire at the forthcoming 30th AGM of the Company. Both Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr.Tam
Kok Meng have indicated their willingness to seek for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 30th AGM of the
Company,the Board of Directors through its NRC had reviewed and assessed each of the retiring Directors
from the fit and proper assessment, annual assessment and evaluation of the Board of Directors for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024. Based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board of Directors is
satisfied with the performance and contributions of the retiring Directors namely, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong
and Mr.Tam Kok Meng, and supports the re-election based on the following considerations:
(i) able to meet the Board of Directors’ expectations in terms of character, experience, integrity,
competency and time commitment in discharging their roles as Directors of the Company;
(ii) exercised due care and carried out professional duties proficiently; and
(iii) level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Non-Executive Director.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
6
3. Resolution 8 - Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and waiver of pre-
emptive rights
The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the
Company held on 27 November 2023 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.
The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot
shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without
convening a general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed
ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being (hereinafter
referred to as the “10% General Mandate”).
The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities,including
but not limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment projects,working
capital and/or acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons at any time as
the Directors may deem fit, without incurring any further cost to convene a separate general meeting to
approve such authority.This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting will
expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of the
Company,shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which rank
equally to the existing issued shares in the Company or other securities.
The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under
the authority to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer new shares to be
issued equally to all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.
4. Resolution 9 - Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The proposed Resolution 9 is to renew the shareholders’ mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions
granted by the shareholders of the Company at the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the Company held on 27
November 2023 (“Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate”). The Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate will
enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations,
subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms
which are not more favourable to the related parties than those generally available to the public and are
not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024 for more information.
5. Resolution 10 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares
The proposed Resolution 10 is to renew the authority granted by the shareholders of the Company at
the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the Company had on 27 November 2023. The proposed renewal will allow the
Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares
of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
Market Listing Requirements.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024 for more information.
Notes to the Notice of the Thirtieth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
21 November 2024 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
7
Annual Report 2024
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.There shall be no restriction as to the
qualification of the proxy.A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have
the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting.
3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is
signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the
Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.The lodging
of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person
at the Thirtieth AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy
authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement
of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting.Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for
voting.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
8
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Tam Kok Meng
Chairman
(Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
Hong Kok Cheong
Member
(Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
Adnan bin Ahmad
Member
Tai Keat Chai
Chairman
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Member
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Hong Kok Cheong
Chairman
(Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
Adnan bin Ahmad
Member
(Appointed with effect from 10 July 2024)
Tam Kok Meng
Member
(Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
(Ceased with effect from 10 July 2024)
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Chairman
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
Tai Keat Chai
Member
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
Hong Kok Cheong
Chairman, Independent
Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Director with
effect from 13 March 2024)
(Redesignated as Chairman with
effect from 31 March 2024)
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive
Director, Group Managing Director
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tam Kok Meng
Independent Non-Executive
Director
(Appointed with effect from
13 March 2024)
Adnan bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Chris Kong Wai Fa
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman, Independent
Non-Executive Director
(Resigned with effect from
31 March 2024)
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive
Director
(Resigned with effect from
31 March 2024)
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Annual Report 2024
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Yeow Sze Min
(MAICSA 7065735)
(SSM PC No.: 201908003120)
YEE KIT YENG
(MAICSA 7068292)
(SSM PC NO.: 202208000022)
AUDITORS
Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan
(AF 0190)
Chartered Accountants
16-03A, Q Sentral,
Jalan Stesen Sentral 2,
50470 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
Telephone No. : +603-2778 4252
Facsimile No. : +603-2778 4251
SHARE REGISTRAR
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
[197701005827 (36869-T)]
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940/
+603-2095 0292
Email Address : info@sshsb.com.my
9
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Ambank Islamic Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Hong Leong Bank berhad
SOLICITORS
Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
REGISTERED OFFICE
No. 46C, Plaza Damansara,
Jalan Medan Setia 2,
Bukit Damansara
50490 Kuala Lumpur
Telephone No. : +603-2011 5142
Facsimile No. : +603-2011 6368
Email Address : rex@rex.net.my
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 9946
Stock Name : REX
Sector : Consumer
		 Products &
		Services
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
10
Mr. Hong Kok Cheong was appointed to the Board of
the Company on 13 March 2024. He is the Chairman
of the Board and Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee of the Company.
Mr. Hong is graduated from the University of Notre
Dame, United States, with a Bachelor of Science in
Chemical Engineering.
Mr. Hong possesses over 35 years of experience
in the Information Technology (“IT”) industry and
is a strong advocate for leveraging IT to drive and
enhance sustainable practices as he believes that
digital solutions enable businesses to embed circular
practices throughout their operations.
Mr. Hong at present serves as the Chief Commercial
Officer of Optivolve Pte Ltd,a Singapore-based startup
organisation, and serves as a Strategic Advisor to
Brandt International and Strateq Group of companies.
Currently, Mr. Hong does not hold any directorship in
other public listed companies or listed issuer.
Mr. Hong Kok Cheong has no family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
offences within the past five (5) years other than for
traffic offences , if any, and there has not been any
public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2024.
Mr. Hong Kok Cheong had attended one (1) out of
one (1) Board Meeting held since his appointment to
the Board during the financial year ended 30 June
2024.
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Hong Kok Cheong
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman
Aged 60 / Malaysian / Male
Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam was appointed to the
Board of the Company and as the Group Managing
Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in
any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia with a Business Degree
majoring in Accounting. He is also a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He spent ten
(10) years as Group Manager in the Audit Division of
an international public accounting firm from 1985 to
1995.
Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering
& Construction Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the
General Manager of the Finance and Corporate
Planning Division in 1996 and successfully listed
Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. He went on to restructure and list
Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in June 1997.He was
later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August
1997. In year 2007, he, together with his partner, took
Safeguards private.
Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as
the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra
Timur Berhad (“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries
prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a
Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2009. He was
redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August
2009 and continues to hold this position till present.
Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in
other public companies is KSTB,which was delisted on
27 December 2016.
Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
offences within the past five (5) years other than for
traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2024.
Mr. Darmendran had attended all six (6) Board
Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June
2024.
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director
Aged 63 / Malaysian / Male
11
Annual Report 2024
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
Mr. Chee Cheng Chun was appointed to the Board of
the Company on 3 March 2015.Currently,he does not
sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London
with a Master of Engineering in Aeronautical
Engineering. He worked as Business Development
Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad
(“KSTB”) before he was appointed to the Board of
KSTB. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Chee in
other public companies is KSTB,which was delisted on
27 December 2016.
Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences
within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
offences, if any, and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Mr. Chee had attended five (5) out of six (6) Board
Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June
2024.
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 39 / Malaysian / Male
Mr.Tam Kok Meng was appointed to the Board of the
Company on 13 March 2024. He is the Chairman of
the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the
Company.
Mr.Tam is a Chartered Accountant and a member of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and a Certified
PublicAccountant of the Malaysian Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. Mr. Tam has more than 35 years
of accounting, auditing, finance, management and
advisory experience gained from working in Hanafiah
Raslan & Mohamad/Arthur Andersen, Chartered
Accountants, several large corporations such as
MBF Finance Berhad, Damansara Realty Bhd Group
of Companies and SCM Integrated Systems Sdn Bhd
(a Canadian-Malaysian Joint Venture) and in the
last 25 years as the founder of Bridge Advisory Group
that provides auditing, outsourcing, tax compliance,
internal audit, litigation support, financial advisory
and insolvency services.
Currently, Mr. Tam does not hold any directorship in
other public listed companies or listed issuer.
Mr. Tam has no family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences
within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
offences , if any, and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Mr. Tam attended one (1) Board Meeting held since
his appointment to the Board during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
Tam Kok Meng
Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 58 / Malaysian / Male
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
12
Encik Adnan bin Ahmad was appointed to the Board
of the Company on 12 April 2018. He is a member of
the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the
Company and a member of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee.
Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial
Relations. He started his career with Messrs. Hanafiah,
Raslan & Mohamad in 1967.He then joined Safeguards
G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including
Head of Human Resource & Administration and Head
of Administration and Regulatory and Premises. He
was also the Chairman of Koperasi Pelaburan Pekerja-
Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement on
31 March 2014.
Currently,the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other
public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
December 2016.
Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
offences within the past five (5) years other than for
traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2024.
Encik Adnan had attended all six (6) Board Meetings
held in the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 75 / Malaysian / Male
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim was appointed to the Board of
the Company on 11 October 2022. He also acts as
the Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn.
Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of
the Company. Currently, he does not sit in any of the
Board Committees of the Company.
Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in
Management Programme. He has more than thirty
(30) years of experience in the fast-moving consumer
goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and
marketing and business re-engineering.Prior to joining
the Group, he had various senior sales and marketing
positions in companies such as Rothmans of Pall Mall
Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad
and Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then
went to head the sustainable development division at
IRIS Corporation Berhad for five (5) years. He joined
the Group in October 2017 as the Marketing Director
prior to assuming his current role as Chief Executive
Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading
Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company.
Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship
in other public listed companies or listed issuer.
Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
offences within the past five (5) years other than for
traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Dato’ Cheah, had attended all six (6) Board Meetings
held in the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive Director
Aged 63 / Malaysian / Male
Annual Report 2024
Chris Kong Wai Fa was appointed to the Board of the
Company on 22 May 2023. She is the Company’s
General Manager of Procurement, Logistic and
Warehouse, overseeing the overall supply chain
operations, including inventory management and
logistics planning. Currently, she does not sit in any of
the Board Committees of the Company.
Chris graduated with a LCCI Diploma. She started
her career in the Finance Department of Safeguards
Oceanic Freightways Sdn. Bhd. in 1982, working
her way up to the operations, sales and eventually
becoming the Chief Executive Officer of a logistics
business company involved in land, sea and air
transport, forwarding and warehousing, Safeguards
Oceanic. Chris has over forty (40) years of experience
in the logistics industry, and has various expertise in
financial management, human resources, operations
and sales.
Currently, Chris does not hold any directorship in other
public listed companies or listed issuer.
Chris has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
interest in any competing business with the Group.
She had not been convicted of any offences within
the past five (5) years other than for traffic offences , if
any, and there has not been any public sanctions or
penalties imposed on her by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2024..
Chris had attended all six (6) Board Meetings held in
the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Chris Kong Wai Fa
Non-Independent Executive Director
Aged 60 / Malaysian / Female
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
13
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
14
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Mr. Chu Seang Ming was appointed as the General
Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, a subsidiary of the
Company, on 1 May 1998.
Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration,
Marketing from Washington International University
and various certifications, which include Indonesia
Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994),
FDA/USDA Better Process Control School, Indonesia
(1995), NOAA – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000)
and HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia (2000).
Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food
manufacturer based in Perak as a Factory Quality
Controller where he undertook laboratory quality
control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he
joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of the
Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then
moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as its
Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu
Mr. Leslie Chng Theng Tat was re-joined as the Chief
Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a
subsidiary of the Company, on 2 May 2024.
Mr. Leslie holds a Sales Management Certificate
from the Marketing Council of Australia and has over
thirty-seven (37) years various portfolios including
key accounts, brand management, channel and
merchandising and marketing operations. He also
spent four (4) years in Thailand as marketing director
cum country manager of the London American
Tobacco Company Limited from 2014 to 2018.Prior to
joining the Group in 2019, he was a senior manager
with Mobile Kiosk Sdn. Bhd., a major distributor of
mobile phone accessories to the modern trade. He
was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of Rex
Canning Co.Sdn.Bhd.from 2019 to 2021.Prior to his re-
joining, he worked in Indonesia as country manager
for Paris tobacco International Manufacturing Pte Ltd.
was tasked with establishing and setting up a new
processing plant and operations for the Rex Group in
People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General
Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods Ltd. Co, before he
returned to P
.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of
the general management of P
.T. Rex Canning.
Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public
companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director
and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
offences, if any, and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Mr.Leslie does not hold any directorship in other public
companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Leslie has no family relationship with any director
and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
offences, if any, and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Chu Seang Ming
General Manager of P
.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia
Aged 58 / Malaysian / Male
Leslie Chng Theng Tat
Chief Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
Aged 65 / Malaysian / Male
Annual Report 2024
Mr. Chia Hup Tong was appointed as the Chief
Financial Officer of the Company on 23 September
2021.
Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants. He started his career in the
audit industry,where he gained audit and accounting
experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan Samudra
Timur Berhad, a company providing services to the oil
& gas industry in 2006 as Accountant responsible for
overall finance and corporate functions.Prior to joining
the Group,he was a Group Accountant of Safeguards
Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charge of the
overall group finance, accounts and compliance for
six (6) years. He joined the Company on 1 May 2021
as Finance Manager of P
.T. Rex Canning before was
promoted as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.Chia does not hold any directorship in other public
companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director
and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
offences, if any, and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2024.
Chia Hup Tong
Chief Financial Officer of Rex Industry Berhad
Aged 47 / Malaysian / Male
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(Cont’d)
15
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
16
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the“Company” or“REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the importance
of practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and
to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the
“Group”).
The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to
provide an overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set
out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3)
key principles, under the stewardship of the Board:-
a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.
This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG
Report of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FYE 2024”) published on the Company’s
website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Intended Outcome 1.0
Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership
and is collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.
1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group
Managing Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group
with the support of a senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the
operations, issues faced and action plans of the Group in order for the Board to keep abreast of
the conduct, business activities and latest development of the Company and to discuss and advise
the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term and long-term business strategies.
Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the objectives to be met and
how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are efficiently and
effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s values and
standards.
To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
responsibilities to two (2) other Board Committees,namely theAudit and Risk Management Committee
(“ARMC”) and Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).The Board Committees assist the
Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions
and terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved
by the Board. The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues,
outcomes and resolutions deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the
Company during the FYE 2024, the Board had, amongst others:-
(a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical,prudent and
professional behaviour;
(b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and
monitored their implementation by the Management;
(c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes
strategies on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;
17
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1 (Cont’d)
(d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is
being properly managed;
(e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
(f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to
ensure that the risks are properly managed;
(g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key
positions;
(h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with
stakeholders; and
(i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
1.2 From 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024 of FYE 2024, the Board was chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain,an Independent Non-Executive Director (“INED”).Upon the resignation of Tan Sri Dato’
Mohd Ibrahim as a Director of the Company on 31 March 2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, an INED,
assumed the role of Chairman of the Board. Both Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim and Mr. Hong Kok
Cheong had provided effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group
and to monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.
Both the Chairmen during their term, had:-
(a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for
the Board decisions;
(b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged
constructive discussions and effective contribution from each Director;
(c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;
(d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance
practices within the Group;
(e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely
expressed;
(f) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and
that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole,for consideration and improvement,
if any;
(g) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth
communication flow between both parties; and
(h) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability
and in any marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.
1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with
clear accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to
ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of
decision making.
The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight
of Management as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has
overall responsibilities over the business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and
implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions.The division of responsibilities is set out in the
Company’s Board Charter.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the NRC and a member of the ARMC. The Board
takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered its Committees’
composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate governance
requirements,recommendations,and best practices,Mr.Hong Kok Cheong will continue to be part of
the Board Committees.The Board is convinced that the presence of the other members in the Board
Committees would still create a good balance for open and free discussions.
1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries,
namely Ms. Chua Siew Chuan and Ms.Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per
Section 235(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).
The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings)
Sdn. Bhd. with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice.They are supported by
a dedicated team of secretarial personnel.
During the FYE 2024, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities
accordingly.They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the
capital market,CG,and other pertinent matters,as well as with changes in the regulatory environment
through continuous training and industry updates.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the
Board in discharging their functions and duties.
1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members to
reserve their dates for the meetings.During FYE 2024,the Management together with the assistance of
the Company Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business
days in advance in accordance with the Company’s Constitution.
Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and
accurate record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the
Company Secretaries to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their
review and for them to seek for clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board
or Board Committee meeting.
	Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the
Board or Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of
the Company to be made available for inspection.
The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate
information to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge
their duties and responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting
materials are circulated at least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.
19
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 2.0
There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.
There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 27 November
2023 and includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details
the responsibilities of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management
limitations, as well as an outline on what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles
and responsibilities as Board Members.With this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of
the Directors and the Management are clearly set out in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity
to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.
The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.
com.
The TOR of the ARMC has been reviewed in line with the recent amendments made to the MainLR in
relation to the conflict of interest (“COI”) was approved by the Board on 1 July 2023 for adoption.
The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and
matters deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee
meetings and reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the
Board during Board meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.
To-date, the Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
Activities of the NRC
On 15 August 2023, the NC had merged with RC and to be known as Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (“NRC”). The rationale for the merger of the two Board Committees is to enhance the
efficiency of the Board Committees in discharging its duties and responsibilities.
During the FYE 2024, the NRC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-
(i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NRC meetings held;
(ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character,
experience, integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a
comprehensive assessment system;
(iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board
Committees;
(iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
(v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
(vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring
independent and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
(vii) Identified, assessed and conducted the fit and proper assessment on potential candidates to
be appointment as INED members of the Board, and upon being satisfied with the assessment,
recommended to the Board for the appointment of the same;
(viii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”); and
(ix) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
During the FYE 2024, the Board had convened a total of six (6) Board meetings for the purposes of
deliberating on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important
matters. During the Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group
and other strategic issues that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members
were invited to attend some of the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications
on issues raised by the Directors.
The NRC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee
meetings. Upon review, the NRC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time
and effort to attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2024.
The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2024 is set out below:-
Directors Directorship Board ARMC NRC
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
(Resigned from the Board on 31 March 2024)
INED 4/5 3/4 0/0
Hong Kok Cheong
(Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024)
INED 1/1 1/1 1/1
Tam Kok Meng
(Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024)
INED 1/1 1/1 1/1
Tai Keat Chai
(Resigned from the Board on 31 March 2024)
INED 4/5 3/4 0/0
Adnan bin Ahmad INED 6/6 5/5 0/0
Darmendran Kunaretnam Non-IED 6/6 Not a
member
Not a
member
Chee Cheng Chun Non-INED 5/6 Not a
member
Not a
member
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim Non-IED 6/6 Not a
member
Not a
member
Chris Kong Wai Fa Non-IED 6/6 Not a
member
Not a
member
In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance
their skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.
The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-
• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed
by the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;
• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their
knowledge on the latest regulatory and business environment; and
• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.
	Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education
would be the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and
knowledge to meet the challenges ahead.
21
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Up to the date of this report,the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-
Name of Directors Dates
Description of
Training Programmes
Hong Kok Cheong 29 – 30 April 2024 Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) 2023
Tam Kok Meng 29 – 30 April 2024 Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) 2023
Chee Cheng Chun 17 August 2023 Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
Market Listed Issuers
16 October 2024 Bursa Malaysia Board Ethics: Growing Concerns
from New Technology, Stakeholder Interests &
Conflict of Interest
Chris Kong Wai Fa 24 – 26 October 2023 Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) 2023
Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, and Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim did not attend any
structured training programme during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 but had continuously kept
themselves abreast of the relevant developments in the marketplace through the updates and briefings by
the Company Secretaries such as circular from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, Securities Commission
Malaysia and Companies Commission of Malaysia,as well as briefings by the Internal Auditors and External
Auditors, communications with other Directors, and daily work exposures throughout the year.
Intended Outcome 3.0
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate
culture that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviour and practice in the Company.
3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-
• Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and
individual behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and
corporate behavior; and
• Code of Ethics,which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.
Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.
The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
3.2 The Company has a Whistleblowing Policy in place to facilitate the Company’s employees and
stakeholders to report instances of misconduct,wrong-doing,corruption,fraud,waste of the Company’s
resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.
Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures.The report should
be made in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are
substantially true and the report is not made for personal gain.Malicious and false allegations will be
viewed seriously and if proven may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
During the FYE 2024, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
abovementioned communication and feedback channels.
The Board had also adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to ensure the Company’s
daily operations and businesses do not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or
benefit.
The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and
corruption pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the 2018
amendment to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.
The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
Intended Outcome 4.0
The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic
manner to support its long-term strategy and success.
4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term
value.
The Company,had established Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing
governance structure in relation to sustainability.
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the
leadership of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments
within the Group. Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the
Group MD, who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability
strategies set by the Board.
The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
upcoming financial years as follows:-
• To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.
• To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather
inputs from all relevant departments/functions.
• To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
a) Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
b) Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
• To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
• With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow the
Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to
the sustainability practices and policies
All sustainability-related activities undertaken to set out by the Company have been disclosed in the
Sustainability Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.
23
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
4.2 The Company acknowledges the importance of communicating the company’s sustainability
strategies, priorities, and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.
The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s sustainability
strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures include a
comprehensive description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and efforts. The
complete information of the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from the Group’s
annual report and is accessible from the corporate website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
4.3 The Board will take part in several initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the
Group and the industry. The Board will take the necessary steps to undertake professional training,
development programs, and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will
include climate-related risks and opportunities.
4.4 The NRC continues to conduct the Board Performance Evaluation annually focusses on the
competency,contribution and performance,as well as calibre and personality.The Board recognises
the importance in address the company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities.The Board
will implement this in time to come to support sustainability measures.
II. BOARD COMPOSITION
Intended Outcome 5.0
Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account
diverse perspectives and insights.
5.1 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s
structure, size, and composition regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with
regard to changes that are deemed necessary.Upon recommending to the Board,NRC will consider
the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity, time commitment, and diversity, where
appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.
During the FYE 2024, in compliance with the Paragraph 15.02 of the MainLR, the NRC had identified
and assessed suitable candidates for the appointment as independent directors. Prior to the
appointment, the NRC had conducted the director’s fit and proper assessment and on 13 March
2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr. Tam Kok Meng were appointed to be Board as Independent
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The NRC also had assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.
The NRC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on
competency,preparedness,and contributions.The Directors’Fit and Proper Policy had been adopted
by the Board since 27 May 2022.
5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs,one (1) Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors and
three (3) Non-Independent Executive Directors.
The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate
a balanced leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to
safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
24
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set
out in the Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director
may continue to serve on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify and
obtain shareholders’ approval for his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on the
Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.
At the last Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“29th AGM”) of the Company, the Company
sought and obtained approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
Bin Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014.Tan
Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain has since resigned from the Board of the Company with effect
from 31 March 2024.
5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9)
years, being a step-up practice.
5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer
greater depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management
level.
		
		
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of
senior management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven
by any age, cultural background or gender considerations.
		
At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of male and female who are
equipped with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business director on the
Group.
5.6 The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when
the need arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board members,
Management, and/or major shareholders.
5.7 The NRC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before
tabling at the General Meeting for voting.The information on the appointment and reappointment of
directors will be shared with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
5.8 From 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024 of FYE 2024, the NRC was chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’
Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. Following to the resignation of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim on 31 March
2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, an INED was appointed as the NRC Chairman. During FYE 2024, the NRC
Chairman had led the annual review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that
the performance of each individual Director is independently assessed.
5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy,the Board
practices non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports
the representation of women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the
Company.
Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when
vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified,underpinned by the overriding primary aim of
selecting the best candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.
Currently, the Board consists of one (1) female director namely, Chris Kong Wai Fa. In this regard, the
Board’s gender diversity stands at nearly half of 30% as required by the MCCG.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
25
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned
with the Company’s objectives:-
i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior
management will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are
identified.
ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members. In
view that the existing Board comprises individuals who have distinguished themselves in their
respective fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives during
board deliberation and decision-making process.
The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome.
Nonetheless, the Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.
Intended Outcome 6.0
Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual
Directors.
6.1 During the FYE 2024, the Board, through the NRC, had conducted the following annual assessments
to determine the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in
the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”):-
(i) Directors’ self-assessment;
(ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
(iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
(iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
(v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.
Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for FYE 2023, the NRC was satisfied with the
performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.
III. REMUNERATION
Intended Outcome 7.0
The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account
the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
drive the Company’s long-term objectives.
Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.
7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred
by the NRC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group MD, Non-
Executive Directors and other senior management personnel.
7.2 Currently, the NRC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is
presently chaired by Mr. Hong Kong Cheong.The NRC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 31 July 2023.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
26
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION
Intended Outcome 8.0
Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management
is commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s
performance.
8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2024 in the Company and
Group levels respectively, is as follows:-
i) Company Level
Name of
Director
Salaries
and other
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
– – – – –
Dato’ Cheah
Teng Lim
– – – – –
Chris Kong Wai Fa – – – – –
Total – – – – –
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd
Ibrahim bin Mohd
Zain
– 36,450 – – –
Tai Keat Chai – – – – –
Hong Kok Cheong – 15,000 – – –
Tam Kok Meng – 15,000 – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad – 36,000 – – –
Chee Cheng Chun – – – – –
Total – 102,450 – – –
27
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
8.1 (Cont’d)
ii) Group Level
Name of
Director
Salaries
and other
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
876,171 – 52,152 – 92,405
Dato’ Cheah
Teng Lim
180,000 – 18,902 – –
Chris Kong Wai Fa – 12,000 – – 2,000
Total 1,056,171 12,000 71,054 – 94,405
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd
Ibrahim bin Mohd
Zain
– 36,450 – – 1,500
Tai Keat Chai – 72,000 – – 1,500
Hong Kok Cheong – 15,000 – – –
Tam Kok Meng – 15,000 – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad – 36,000 – – 2,000
Chee Cheng Chun – 36,000 – – 1,500
Total – 210,450 – – 6,500
8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior
management staff on a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the
Group taking into consideration the competitive human resource environment which may give
rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the privacy of senior management staff.
8.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not
be disclosed for confidentiality purposes.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
28
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
Intended Outcome 9.0
There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.
The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations.The
Company’s financial statements are a reliable source of information.
9.1 At present,the ARMC is chaired by Mr.Tam Kok Meng,who is an INED,while the Chairman of the Board
is Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the Board’s review of the
ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.
9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may
arise when a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit
and preparation of the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies
and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require
a former key audit partner of the Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year
cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the ARMC.
During the FYE 2024, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to
uphold the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit
partner as a member of the ARMC or Board.
9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and
Independence of External Auditors’ (“Policies and Procedures”) that sets out the criteria to be taken
into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability, objectivity and independence of external
auditors annually.
In recommending the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the
ARMC has considered the following:-
(a) Competence,audit quality,experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation
to the audit;
(b) Persons assigned to the audit;
(c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
(d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a
timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
(e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of
fees; and
(f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been,
independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms
of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
During the FYE 2024, the ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan is suitable,
objective and independent to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board
has in turn recommended the same for shareholders’ approval at the Thirtieth (“30th”) AGM of the
Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
29
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
Further,following the resignation of Moore Stephens in May 2024,theARMC had assessed the suitability,
objective and independence of Messrs. CS Raki Tan & Ramanan as the new External Auditors of the
Company in place of the resigned Auditors,Moore Stephens based on the following criteria set out in
the Policies and Procedures:-
• competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity;
• fees;
• independence;
• the audit firm’s other audit engagements, non-audit work.
	Upon completion of its assessment, the ARMC was satisfied with Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan’s
technical competency and had recommended to the Board the appointment of Messrs.Raki CS Tan
& Ramanan as External Auditors of the Company in place of Moore Stephens.
9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors in line with step-up practice 9.4 of the MCCG.
9.5 The Board has ensured that theARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding
of the Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC,including the financial reporting
process.
The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and
fair view of the Company’s financial position and performance.
All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous
professional development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and
auditing standards, practices and rules as and when required.
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Intended Outcome 10.0
Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement
necessary controls to pursue their objectives.
The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable
future event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.
10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify,
assess and monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
assets by monitoring the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external
auditors and the outsourced internal auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of
the internal control processes and procedures periodically to ensure that the system is viable and
robust.
With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk
management and internal control.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
30
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised
the results of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment
process of the Group.
Thedeliverablesincludedintheinternalauditreportshadbeendiscussedwiththeseniormanagement
of the Group.The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus
areas of the Group.The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of
the Board and Management of the Company.
Intended Outcome 11.0
Companies have an effective governance; risk management and internal control framework and
stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.
11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield
Corporate Services Sdn.Bhd.,who report directly to theARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable
assurance of adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.
The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of
the Company’s compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further
improvement.
During FYE 2024, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for FYE 2024 and that they have the
necessary authority to carry out their work.
The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of
the Company and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is
satisfactory and operating effectively.
11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the
internal audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which
could impair their objectivity and independence.
The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or
a university degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The
Engagement Partner, Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk
management and corporate governance advisory.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Intended Outcome 12.0
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.
Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company,its
policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
31
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication
to the investing public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group
are accurate, timely, factual, informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary,
information filed with regulators is in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated
spokespersons will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow
of information disclosure to the stakeholders.
The Board ensures that there is effective,transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders
through a variety of communication channels as follows:-
(a) Announcements to Bursa Securities
Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis
through announcements to Bursa Securities.
Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly
financial results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via
the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
(b) Annual reports
The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating
to the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for
the past financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
(c) AGM/ general meetings
The AGM/ general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise
any issues pertaining to the Company.
(d) Corporate website
The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company
and is accessible by the public.
(e) Investor relations
Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they
have any comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the
Company’s general email address.
12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated
reporting based on a globally recognised framework.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Intended Outcome 13.0
Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and
make informed voting decisions at general meetings.
13.1 The Board together with the management committed to ensuring that the despatch of the notice
of every AGM of the Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of
the meeting.However,for the 29th AGM,the notice of the 29th AGM was circulated twenty-seven (27)
days in advance.
While this falls short by one (1) day of the recommended best practice,the Board recognises that this
notice period would still allow the shareholders adequate time to arrange their time to participate
in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their proxies and corporate
representatives for the AGM.
The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable
shareholders to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.
13.2 There were two (2) general meetings held in 2023/2024 i.e., 29th AGM and Extraordinary General
Meeting (“EGM”) of the Company held on 27 November 2023 and 10 July 2024, respectively. All
directors together with the Chief Financial Controller, Company Secretary and External Auditors
attended and participated the general meetings of the Company, to provide meaningful responses
to questions raised by the shareholders.
13.3 Both the last AGM held on 27 November 2023 and the EGM held on 10 July 2024 were conducted
physically to encourage face-to-face discussions with shareholders and stakeholders.
13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform for interaction between the Board,Senior
Management, and the shareholders of the Company.The Board ensures that shareholders are given
the opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.
At every general meeting of the Company,the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer,external
auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide greater
responses to all shareholders’ queries.
The Chairman also has committedly ensured that all questions raised during general meetings would
be getting responses either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The responses
would be published on the corporate website after the general meetings.
13.5 Both the 29th AGM and EGM were conducted physically which allowed shareholders to efficiently
exercise their rights to vote.
13.6 The Minutes of the 29th AGM and the EGM were not made available to the shareholders within thirty
(30) business days after the general meetings.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly
approved at the Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 24 October 2024.
33
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
SECTION 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
REX Industry Berhad (“REX” or the “Company” or the “Group”) presents the Sustainability Statement (“this
Statement”) for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”).This statement encompasses our sustainability
efforts and highlights the Group’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance in FY2024. This
Statement adheres to the Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide and includes a materiality assessment
emphasizing a multi-stakeholder approach. It highlights REX's initiatives and presents ESG performance data
with a year-on-year (YoY) comparison.The FY2024 performance will establish a benchmark for future goal setting.
REX COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
REX is a Malaysia-based investment holding company.The Company is principally engaged in the manufacture
and distribution of canned food, beverages, chocolate malt products and coconut milk. REX pledges to
deliver high-quality, healthy and safe products for our customers. REX is dedicated to conducting operations
responsibly and sustainably,guided by the principles of sustainability encompassing‘People,Planet,and Good
Governance’.
Creating Shared Value
REX place a great emphasis on creating shared value by fostering mutually beneficial relationships with our
stakeholders.We are proud to provide long-term employment opportunities and promote career advancement
for local talent by upskilling our workforce. We aim to foster inclusive economic growth by empowering micro-
entrepreneurs, particularly in rural and economically disadvantaged areas and contribute to the social and
economic resilience of the communities in which we operate.
Environmental Stewardship
At Rex,we recognize the importance of minimizing our environmental impact and reducing our carbon footprint,
and we are dedicated to adopting best manufacturing practices through continuous improvement and the
integration of sustainable practices across all our production facilities.We strive to make tangible progress in our
journey towards greater sustainability.
SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
This Statement covers the sustainability practices across REX Group and operations in its two (2) subsidiaries
located in Malaysia namely:Rex Canning Co.Sdn Bhd and RexTrading Sdn Bhd.In this statement,the information
disclosed comprises activities divided into two (2) business segments relating to the manufacturing of beverages,
chocolate malt products and coconut milk and the trading/sales of canned food, beverages, chocolate malt
products and coconut milk.Collectively,the above contributed approximately 42% of the Group’s total revenue.
REPORTING PERIOD
The reporting period for this statement is from 1st July 2021 to 30th June 2024,unless stated otherwise.REX Group
Sustainability Statement is issued on an annual basis for the financial year ended 30th June 2024.
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND GUIDELINES
This statement is prepared in accordance with:
• BURSA Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements
• Sustainability Reporting Guide 3rd Edition issued by BURSA Malaysia.
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) of Securities Commission Malaysia
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
• GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards.
These guidelines ensure that REX reporting is transparent, consistent, and aligned with best practices in
sustainability.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
34
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
ASSURANCE
There is no external assurance or independent evaluation of the performance data published in this Statement.
All the data has been sourced internally and validated by the information owners.We will continue to strengthen
the disclosure going forward.
SECTION 2: SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As
part of our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars that have been adopted
as our Sustainability framework to ensure that, while running the business effectively, we are also dedicated to
contributing to the larger community.The 4 Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below: -
Our sustainability efforts are anchored on these four key focus areas Environment, Supplier, Community and
Employee. The group believes that this framework serves great importance as it ensures sustainability and
ensures that the products that our employees, suppliers and the communities we serve are taken care of.
2024
2023
2018 2022 2025 & Beyond
Embark on
Sustainability
Journey
Baseline Data
Collection
ESG Policy
Monitor
Performance
SWG
Revised Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption Policy
Our Sustainability Working Group
(SWG) was formed to enhance
our existing governance structure
in relation to Sustainability
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory and
GHG emissions baseline were established
ESG Performance metrices data gathering
Revised Whistleblowing
Policy
Greater
Sustainability
Disclosure Data Gathering Carbon Accounting
Quantified Carbon emissions
data following GHG Protocol
Scope 1, 2 and 3
Revision
Continuous monitoring and
tracking and data collection of
ESG Performance metrices
Disclosure Data Gathering
Enhance reporting and
transparency in accordance
with the updated guidelines,
standards, and industry best
practices
GHG Inventory & Baseline
Action Plan
Initiatives
Committed in enhancing sustainable
practices focusing on waste
reduction, innovation on highest
food safety and halal quality
products to our consumers and
continuous support the local
communities
REX 4 Pillars of Sustainability Framework
Environment
Accountability
Supplier
Transparency
Community
Responsibility
Employee
Fairness
Sustainability Governance
35
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK
REX Group list of certifications, licenses and membership of trade associations.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure
concerning sustainability matters.The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”),
is chaired by our Group Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department (HODs):
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of
the ARMC.The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group.The Board
is ultimately accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also
chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.
Certification
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP)
• Halal Malaysia
• Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab
Industri (MeSTI)
• Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP)
Licenses
• Municipal License
• MITI License (Manufacturing)
• Malaysia Customs Sales & Services Tax
• Premise Registration Kementerian
Kesihatan Malaysia
Permits
• Sodium Hydroxide Permit by Malaysia
Pharmaceutical Services
• Lembaga Kemajuan Ikan Malaysia
(LKIM)
• Dept of Occupational, Safety & Health
(DOSH)
• Kementerian Perdagangan Dalam
Negeri, Koperasi Dan Kepenggunaan
(KPDNKK)
Trade Associations
• Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers (FMM)
• United States Food & Drug
Administration (US FDA)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
36
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (CONT’D)
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated below: -
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) has formalized the Risk Management Framework and
Policies of the Group.Under the Risk Management Framework,the ARMC oversees the risk management process
of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at the subsidiary level.
With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk management
and internal control.The ARMC is comprised solely of Independent Directors.
Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
Head Of Finance
Department
Head Of Sales and Marketing
Department
Head Of Manufacturing
Department
Sustainability Working Group
(SWG)
Board of Directors
Audit and Risk Management Committee
(ARMC)
Head Of Warehouse and Logistics
Department
Head of Procurement
Department
Figure A: REX Group sustainability governance structure
37
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
Over the years, the Group have studied the processes and determined the priority in terms of material
sustainability matters based on the action plan that was laid out over the previous years.
The process of the priority utilizes the insights provided by our stakeholders, with analysis of prevailing issues,
risks and trends that are relevant to the industry and our business that results in the identification of material
sustainability matters which then form the basis for our sustainability efforts.
MATERIAL MATRIX
The materiality matrix provided below was generated based on our materiality determination process,detailing
the significance of each material sustainability matter to the Group and to our stakeholders.
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER
The table below describes why each of the sustainability material matters disclosed in this statement is significant
to the Group and indicates stakeholders who ranked the matter as ‘high priority’ during our engagements with
them.
Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter
Material
Sustainability
Matter
Why It Matters Who It Matters To Relevant to UNSDGs
Economic
Customer
Satisfaction
Our priority is to produce quality
and affordable products that meet
the needs of our target customers.
• Customers
• Employees
• Local Communities
• Investors & Shareholders
Innovation We invest in research and
development, exploring new
technologies, ingredients, and
processes that have the potential
to revolutionize the food industry
while advancing ESG objectives.
• Customers
• Investors & Shareholders
B
D
G
H
I
B
C
H
D
A
I
E
A
C
E
F
Materiality Matrix
F
G
Environmental-friendly
Food Safety and Quality
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
38
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER (CONT’D)
Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter (Cont’d)
Material
Sustainability
Matter
Why It Matters Who It Matters To Relevant to UNSDGs
Food Safety &
Quality
As a responsible food and
beverage manufacturer, we must
ensure that our products meet
the highest food safety and halal
standards while providing the finest
quality in every product.
• Customers
• Distributors
• Governments &
Regulators
• Employees
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Communities
Environmental
Environmental-
Friendly
As stewards of the environment,
we recognize our responsibility to
act with urgency and integrity to
safeguard the planet.This is why we
have produced our products with
environmentally friendly materials.
• Local Communities
• Government &
Regulators
• Investors & Shareholders
• Employees
Sustainable
Packaging
We have embraced environmental
friendliness as a core value, and
we have produced sustainable
environmentally friendly packaging.
• Employees
• Governments &
Regulators
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Community
Responsible
Water
Stewardship
As a responsible food and
beverage manufacturer, we hold
accountability to extract and treat
water in ways that minimize our
impact on the environment the
planet and the community.
• Employees
• Governments &
Regulators
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Community
39
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER (CONT’D)
Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter (Cont’d)
Material
Sustainability
Matter
Why It Matters Who It Matters To Relevant to UNSDGs
Climate
Awareness
Asaresponsiblefoodandbeverage
manufacturer, we recognize
the significant role we play in
addressing climate change.We are
dedicated to sourcing ingredients
sustainably, prioritizing suppliers
who share our commitment to
environmental responsibility and
climate stewardship.
• Employees
• Governments &
Regulators
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Community
Social
Employee
Welfare
We have provided our employees
with an inclusive and safe
workplace to enhance productivity
and sustainability.
• Employees
• Investors & Shareholders
Local Economy
Contribution
We actively support small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
by providing access to our supply
chain and resources to help them
thrive and grow.We also strengthen
the resilience and diversity of the
local economy.
• Distributors
• Investors & Shareholders
• Local Community
• Suppliers
STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
We have identified and prioritized the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these
stakeholders over the Group, and at the same time, the engagement platforms and the engagement matter
with the respective stakeholders, as illustrated below:
Table 2:The respective stakeholders’ engagement platforms and matters
Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Engagement Matters
Shareholders • Annual General Meeting
• Financial statements
• Press releases/announcements
• Dividend
• Return on investment
• Financial performance
• Share performance
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
40
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Table 2:The respective stakeholders’ engagement platforms and matters (Cont’d)
Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Engagement Matters
Board of Directors • Board Meetings
• Annual General Meeting
• Company organized events
• Corporate Governance
• Company business strategy
Employees • Orientation training
• Learning and development programs
• Employee performance appraisal
• Corporate organized events
• Occupational safety & health
• Human resource management
• Fair employment practices
• Career development opportunities
Government /
Regulators
• Ongoing interactions
• Formal and informal meetings
• Manufacturing issues and policies
• Food safety issues and policies
• Effluent & waste management
• Water & energy management
• Compliance with applicable laws
• Economic, environmental and social
impacts
Customers • Face-to-face interaction
• Feedback survey
• Manufacturing quality
• Manufacturing capacity
• Research & Development
Suppliers • Interviews
• Evaluations/Re-evaluations
• Face-to-face interaction
• Agreeable contracts
• Terms of payments
• Maintaining partnership
Local
communities
• Corporate volunteering programs
(e.g. community events, knowledge-
sharing initiatives & partnerships with
non-governmental organizations)
• Support towards community
development
• Job creation for local communities
• Undertaking business in a responsible
manner
SECTION 3: PLANET
KEY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDICATOR
Relevant key environmental performance indicators have been established, tracked and disclosed to the best
of our ability within this statement as it monitors the progress of current performance against baseline.
Policy related to REX Environmental
Management
• Safety, Health & Environment Policy
• Code of Conduct
41
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
KEY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDICATOR (CONT’D)
Table 3: Environmental Sustainability Indicators Progress for FY2024
Indicator Unit Measurement Baseline (2022) 2024
Electricity Consumption Mega Joule 11,722,187 2,070,797
Greenhouse Gas emissions tCO2e 10,677 1,967
Water consumption Mega Litres 0.077 0.026
Waste generation Metric tonnes 2,220 99
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT
REX initiated its GHG emissions carbon accounting using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard.Table 4 in this statement shows Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for REX from FY2022
baseline compared to FY2024.
Table 4: REX GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2
Indicator Unit Measurement Baseline (2022) 2024
Scope 1: Direct emissions -
Organization GHG Emissions
tCO2e 2,107 449
Scope 2: Indirect emissions -
Organization GHG Emissions
tCO2e 2,468 436
REX GHG emissions were reduced more than 70% in FY2024 compared to FY2022 baseline due to decrease in
operation activities and decommissioning of our Bukit Minyak manufacturing plant.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Since March 2019, Bukit Minyak production facility has switched to natural gas to fuel the boilers.
Benefits from switching to natural gas eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulfur into the air and extending
the life spans of the boiler and chimney. Natural gas is also cleaner because it is sludge-free and directly piped
in, gas is better insulated against supply disruptions.
Table 5:Total energy consumption for REX Group from FY 2022 to FY2024
Indicator Unit Measurement Baseline (2022) 2023 2024
REX total energy
consumption
Mega Joule 50,158,480 29,411,771 9,154,193
Table 6:Total energy consumption by type of sources from FY 2022 to FY 2024
Consumption Unit Measurement Baseline (2022) 2023 2024
Total Electricity Mega Joule 11,722,187 6,848,673 2,070,797
Total Diesel Mega Joule 6,564,487 7,436,644 5,974,277
Total Petrol Mega Joule 1,570,381 1,844,390 1,109,118
Total Natural Gas Mega Joule 30,301,423 13,282,062 *0
TOTAL Mega Joule 50,158,478 29,411,771 9,154,193
*Natural Gas zero usage in 2024 due decommissioning manufacturing at Bukit Minyak.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
42
ENERGY MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Waste generated from our manufacturing processes produced a significant volume of general waste and that
has been treated to landfill.The reduction of waste generated is mainly due to the decommissioning of Bukit
Minyak plant.
Table 7:Total waste in metric tonnes from FY 2022 to FY2024
Indicator Unit Measurement Baseline (2022) 2023 2024
Waste generated Metric tonnes 2,220 436 99
Waste disposed Metric tonnes 2,220 436 99
Total waste Metric tonnes 2,220 436 99
WATER CONSUMPTION
Since FY2022, we continuously monitored our usage of water consumption. In addition, we are looking at other
alternatives such as harnessing rainwater to reduce our water consumption in future. The reduction of water
consumption in FY2024 is largely attributed to the decommissioning of Bukit Minyak plant.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
Total Energy Consumption by Type of sources (MJ)
2022 2023 2024
Figure B:Total energy consumption by type of sources
40000000
30000000
20000000
10000000
0
Diesel
Electricity
Natural Gas
Petrol
2022 2023 2024
Type of Waste Amount by Year (Metric Tonnes)
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2220
436
99
2220
436
99
Figure C:Type of waste amount from FY2022 to FY2024
Waste disposed
Waste generated
43
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
WATER CONSUMPTION (CONT’D)
Table 8:Total water consumption from FY2022 to FY2024
Indicator Unit
Measurement
Baseline (2022) 2023 2024
Water consumption Megaliters 0.077 0.065 0.026
Water discharged Megaliters – – –
Total water consumption (Water
consumption-water discharged)
Megaliters 0.077 0.065 0.026
SECTION 4: PEOPLE
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
At REX, we recognize that diversity has become a fundamental strength that helps us to drive innovation,
creativity, and success. We aim for REX to be a workplace where every employee feels valued, respected, and
empowered regardless of their background. We celebrate differences, champion equity, and actively seek
perspectives from all walks of life.
As such,we have put into practice having a diverse workplace.FY2024 where the percentage of our employees
in the executive categories was 72% male and 28% female with the age range of 8% for those who were under
30 and 92% for those who were above the age of 30.As for the non-executive categories, there were 82% male
and 18% female with the age range of 48% for those who were under 30 and 52% for those who were above
the age of 30.
Policy related to REX Social
Dimensions
• Employee Handbook
• Safety, Health & Environment Policy
• Code of Conduct
Water Consumption (Megalitres)
Figure D:Total water consumption from FY2022 to FY2024
0.1
0.05
0
2022 2023 2024
Water Consumption (Megalitres)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
44
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY (CONT’D)
We also practice diversity even at the director level of the company where there is 86% male 14% female with the
age range of 14% for those who were under 40 and 86% for those who were above the age of 40.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
2024
2023
2022
0 50 100
Employee by Gender (%)
Figure E: Employees by Gender (%) FY22’-FY24’
Female Male
40
30
20
10
0
Employee by Aged (%)
Figure F: Employees by Age (%) FY22’-24’
2022 2023 2024
Aged
20- 30
Aged
31-40
Aged
41-50
Above
50
Employee by Ethnicity (%)
Figure G: Employees by Ethnicity (%) FY22’-FY24’
24%
11%
27%
38%
32%
31%
6%
31% 30%
27%
40%
2022 2023 2024
Malay
Chinese
Indian
Others
Number of Directors by Age Group
Figure I: Number of Directors by age group
FY22’-FY24’
2022 2023 2024
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Under 40 Above 50
Number of Directors by Gender
Figure J: Number of Directors by gender
FY22’-FY24’
MALE FEMALE
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2022 2023 2024
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Employee by Category (%)
Figure H: Employees by Category (%) FY22’-FY24’
2022 2023 2024
Executive Non-Executive
64
36
43
63
38
57
45
Annual Report 2024
EMPLOYMENT
Human resources are seen as one of the core pillars of the Group,as it is important to recruit and retain high-caliber
employees to add value to the Group.The Group is ardent to nurturing a diverse, competent, and dedicated
talent pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and
performance enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions. Moreover, REX also
provides opportunities for contract/temporary staff who are looking for employment.
TURNOVER RATE
For FY 2024, REX registered 4 resignations at the executive and non-executive levels, and 2 at the managerial
level.
NON-DISCRIMINATION AND VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Besides that, REX also takes Labour Practices and Standards very seriously and strives to abide by the Labour
Practices and Standards as outlined in the EmploymentAct of 1955.In FY 2024,we had zero cases of substantiated
complaints concerning human rights violations.
ANTI-CHILD LABOUR
Our company strictly prohibits the employment of individuals under the age of 16 in compliance with Malaysia’s
Employment Act 1955. We do not employ children who have not completed their compulsory education. All
employees must possess a valid Malaysian identification card or, in the case of legal foreign workers, comply
with all Malaysian immigration regulations.The recruitment process and workers’ requirements as stated in the
Company’s Employment Policy.
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
REX investing in human capital by empowering all our employees in all categories by sending them for training
to upgrade their skills and knowledge.In FY 2024,on average,every employee in the company attended a total
of 16 hours of training.
Table 9:Total training hours by employee category.
Indicator Unit
Measurement
2022 2023 2024
Senior Management Hours 1,440 384 672
Senior Manager & Manager Hours 672 576 336
Assistant Manager & Senior Executive Hours 240 960 576
Executives Hours 960 720 480
Non-Executives Hours 2,256 1,608 1,440
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
46
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
TRAINING AND EDUCATION (CONT’D)
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH (OSH)
REX Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has established the Safety, Health and Environment Policy that adheres to the
Occupational Safety & Health Act (1994) and prioritizes safety, health, and environmental considerations in
all business operations in accordance with requirements and regulations. We are diligent in providing a safe,
healthy,and environment-friendly working environment for all employees,contractors,visitors,and the public.We
aim to implement this policy throughout our business activities.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH
We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the
foundation of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety
and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FMA”) 1997 are adhered to.
Training in quality, safety and health has been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are aware of
their significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health has been well communicated
throughout the Group.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE
The Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered to as the compliance would benefit the
employees, customers, investors as well as the public in the form of quality products and environment-friendly
practices which do not harm the public environment. In FY 2024, 42% of OSHA committee members have been
trained in Safety and Health standards.We had zero cases of work-related fatalities, while the Lost Time Incident
Rate is as in the table below.
Sum of Training Hours by Employee Category
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
1,440
384
672
336
576 480
1,440
576
960
720
1,608
672
240
960
2,256
2022 2023 2024
Senior Management Hours
Senior Manager & Manager Hours
Assistant Manager & Senior Executive Hours
Assistant Manager & Senior Executive Hours
Non-Executives Hours
Figure K:Total training hours by employee category from FY2022 to FY2024
47
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
SAFETY PERFORMANCE (CONT’D)
Table 10: REX Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) from FY 2022 to FY 2024
Indicator Unit
Measurement
2022 2023 2024
Lost Time Incident Rate 2.7 2.1 5.3
Recordable work-related injuries Hours 1.6 2.1 2.7
LOCAL COMMUNITY
As we have been doing for previous years,we have set aside a portion of the sales earnings from REX’s products
bearing the“Love Rex”logo to benefit various poor and disabled groups in our society as part of the company’s
good corporate citizenship initiative.
Throughout FY 2024, we continued to support various orphanages and homes for the underprivileged across
Malaysia under the REX CARE program which consists of MySkills, Rumah Kasih and Open Hands.Through this
effort,we have provided food baskets for over 200 beneficiaries nationwide.Additionally,REX has also contributed
to the local community by providing food baskets for various NGOs, shelters, Police Training Centers and more
which have impacted over 1,200 beneficiaries. Besides that, REX had also provided aid relief to the victims of
Natural Disasters which helped over 2,500 families.
2022 2023 2024
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Incident Rate and Recordable Work-related Injuries by Year
Lost Time Incident
Recordable work-
related injuries
Figure L: Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and work-related injuries recorded by year from FY 2022 to
FY 2024
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
48
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
SECTION 5: GOOD GOVERNANCE
ETHICAL BUSINESS
We believe that anti-corruption efforts are important in the group as they can undermine a company’s ESG
policies and processes, as bribed officials will ignore standards. In turn, companies that have been found
involved in corruption, whether intentional or not, will face a backlash and loss of confidence from the public.
In the interest of good governance and ethical business, the Group has invested in anti-corruption programs
that align with the company’s ESG compliance which will lead it to corporate growth and propel the nation’s
economy.
Completely the FY 2024 period, REX continually sent our employees ranging from the 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, and 60
to receive training on Anti-corruption where the total percentage of employees who have attended the Anti-
corruption training stands at 72%.We have also assessed our employees to find out if they have been involved
in corruption-related cases and we are proud to disclose that zero confirmed incidents of corruption have taken
place in REX.
CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PROTECTION
As of late, we have seen how important data privacy and security have become in our society with companies
being involved in the act of buying and selling data and how important it is to secure the companies’ security
to avoid data breaches.
Therefore, REX has invested heavily in ensuring that the data of all those who are connected with the company,
be it customers, stakeholders, suppliers, etc. are protected with high-level security. In FY 2024, we have had zero
cases of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY
We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard for our products
that are safe for consumption.
We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such
as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”)
and Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attaining
the Halal MS 1500:2009 certification.
We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which
have clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority, and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the
Group’s product quality and safety.
Policy related to REX Corporate
Governance
• Whistleblowing Policy (Revised 2023)
• Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy
(Revised 2023)
• Director’s Fit and Proper Policy
• TOR of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee (2022)
• Code Of Ethics
• Code of Conduct
49
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
REX is very particular in our supply chain management. Considering it encompasses the entire production flow
of goods from selecting the raw materials to delivering the final product to customers. We are committed to
working with local suppliers who sustainably produce their goods hence,we are not only serving the community
by providing high-quality goods in the market likewise serving the planet by choosing “green” local suppliers.
PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS
For FY 2024, 60% of our procurement where from local suppliers. REX aims to prioritize sourcing from more
environmentally friendly local suppliers in the future who meet our standards in sustainability.
SECTION 6: FUTURE OUTLOOK
REX Group strives to enhance our reporting and transparency in accordance with the applicable updated
guidelines, standards, and industry best practices. Moving forward, we aim to enhance our performance
disclosure on sector-specific metrics and put into action as part of our commitment to enhancing sustainable
practices focusing on alternatives to reduce our water consumption further by harnessing rainwater, waste
reduction,innovation on the highest food safety and halal quality products to our consumers and continuously
support our local communities.
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Procurement Spending by Year (%)
64
36
67
33
64
36
2022 2023 2024
Local suppliers Foreign suppliers
Figure M: Procurement Spending by FY 22-24 (%)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
50
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
Scope of Sutainability Material Matters
The scope of the internal review covered the assessment of data for the following sustainability indicators for
FY2024:
No. Bursa Common
Sustainability Matters
Bursa Common Indicators (BCI)
1. Anti-corruption Bursa C1 (a) Percentage of employees who have received training on
anti corruption by employee category
Bursa C1 (b) Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related
risks
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and action
2. Community/ Society Bursa C2 (a) Total amount invested in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer
Bursa C2 (b) Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
3. Diversity Bursa C3 (a) Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for
each employee category
Bursa C3 (b) Percentage of directors by gender and age group
4. Energy management Bursa C4 (a) Total energy consumption
5. Health and safety Bursa C5 (a) Number of work-related fatalities
Bursa C5 (b) Lost time incident rate
Bursa C5 (c) Number of employees trained on health and safety
standards
6. Labour practices and
standards
Bursa C6 (a) Total hours of training by employee category
Bursa C6 (b) Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary
staff
Bursa C6 (c) Total number of employee turnover by employee category
Bursa C6 (d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning human
rights violations
7. Supply chain
management
Bursa C7 (a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers
8. Data privacy and
security
Bursa C8 (a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
9. Water Bursa C9 (a) Total volume of water used
10. Waste management Bursa C10 (a) Total waste generated, and a breakdown of the following:
(i) total waste diverted from disposal
(ii) total waste directed to disposal
11. Emissions
management
Bursa C11 (a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Bursa C11 (b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Bursa C11 (c) Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e (at least for the
categories of business travel and employee commuting)
51
Annual Report 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of
employees who have
received training on anti-
corruption by employee
category
Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 39.00
Non-executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 92.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C1(c) Con rmed
incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount
invested in the community
where the target
bene ciaries are external to
the listed issuer
MYR 42,000.00 43,500.00 45,000.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
bene ciaries of the
investment in communities
Number 3,580 4,160 4,250
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and
age group, for each
employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Executive Under 30 Percentage 22.00 12.00 8.00
Executive 41-50 Percentage 26.00 24.00 19.00
Executive Above 50 Percentage 28.00 47.00 53.00
Executive 31-40 Percentage 24.00 18.00 19.00
Non-executive Under 30 Percentage 24.00 39.00 48.00
Non-executive 41-50 Percentage 24.00 18.00 17.00
Non-executive Above 50 Percentage 30.00 13.00 12.00
Non-executive 31-40 Percentage 21.00 30.00 23.00
Gender Group by
Employee Category
Executive Male Percentage 69.00 73.00 72.00
Executive Female Percentage 31.00 27.00 28.00
Non-executive Male Percentage 68.00 79.00 82.00
Non-executive Female Percentage 32.00 21.00 18.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age
group
Male Percentage 100.00 100.00 86.00
Female Percentage 0.00 0.00 14.00
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
41-50 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Above 50 Percentage 80.00 83.00 86.00
31-40 Percentage 20.00 17.00 14.00
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 50,158,478.00 * 29,411,771.00 9,154,193.00
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of
work-related fatalities
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time
incident rate ("LTIR")
Rate 2.70 2.10 5.30
Bursa C5(c) Number of
employees trained on health
and safety standards
Number 13 30 14
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category
Senior Management Hours 1,440 384 672
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
52
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of
employees who have
received training on anti-
corruption by employee
category
Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 39.00
Non-executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 92.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C1(c) Con rmed
incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount
invested in the community
where the target
bene ciaries are external to
the listed issuer
MYR 42,000.00 43,500.00 45,000.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
bene ciaries of the
investment in communities
Number 3,580 4,160 4,250
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and
age group, for each
employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Executive Under 30 Percentage 22.00 12.00 8.00
Executive 41-50 Percentage 26.00 24.00 19.00
Executive Above 50 Percentage 28.00 47.00 53.00
Executive 31-40 Percentage 24.00 18.00 19.00
Non-executive Under 30 Percentage 24.00 39.00 48.00
Non-executive 41-50 Percentage 24.00 18.00 17.00
Non-executive Above 50 Percentage 30.00 13.00 12.00
Non-executive 31-40 Percentage 21.00 30.00 23.00
Gender Group by
Employee Category
Executive Male Percentage 69.00 73.00 72.00
Executive Female Percentage 31.00 27.00 28.00
Non-executive Male Percentage 68.00 79.00 82.00
Non-executive Female Percentage 32.00 21.00 18.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age
group
Male Percentage 100.00 100.00 86.00
Female Percentage 0.00 0.00 14.00
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
41-50 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Above 50 Percentage 80.00 83.00 86.00
31-40 Percentage 20.00 17.00 14.00
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 50,158,478.00 * 29,411,771.00 9,154,193.00
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of
work-related fatalities
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time
incident rate ("LTIR")
Rate 2.70 2.10 5.30
Bursa C5(c) Number of
employees trained on health
and safety standards
Number 13 30 14
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category
Senior Management Hours 1,440 384 672
group
Male Percentage 100.00 100.00 86.00
Female Percentage 0.00 0.00 14.00
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
41-50 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Above 50 Percentage 80.00 83.00 86.00
31-40 Percentage 20.00 17.00 14.00
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 50,158,478.00 * 29,411,771.00 9,154,193.00
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of
work-related fatalities
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time
incident rate ("LTIR")
Rate 2.70 2.10 5.30
Bursa C5(c) Number of
employees trained on health
and safety standards
Number 13 30 14
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category
Senior Management Hours 1,440 384 672
Executive Hours 960 720 480
Non-executive Hours 2,256 1,608 1,440
Senior Manager &
Manager
Hours 672 576 336
Assistant Manager &
Senior Executive
Hours 240 960 576
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of
employees that are
contractors or temporary
staff
Percentage 0.00 0.00 1.00
Bursa C6(c) Total number of
employee turnover by
employee category
Senior Manager &
Manager
Number 2 2 2
Executive Number 2 3 2
Non-executive Number 10 9 2
Assistant Manager &
Senior Executive
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 64.00 67.00 64.00
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses
of customer data
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of
water used
Megalitres 0.077000 0.065000 0.026000
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric tonnes 2,220.00 436.50 99.00
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste
diverted from disposal
Metric tonnes 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste
directed to disposal
Metric tonnes 2,220.00 436.50 99.00
Bursa (Emissions management)
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes 2,107.00 1,286.00 449.00
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes 2,468.00 1,442.00 436.00
Bursa C11(c) Scope 3
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
(at least for the categories of
business travel and
employee commuting)
Metric tonnes 1,103.00 217.00 49.00
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023 2024
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of
employees that are
contractors or temporary
staff
Percentage 0.00 0.00 1.00
Bursa C6(c) Total number of
employee turnover by
employee category
Senior Manager &
Manager
Number 2 2 2
Executive Number 2 3 2
Non-executive Number 10 9 2
Assistant Manager &
Senior Executive
Number 0 0 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 64.00 67.00 64.00
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses
of customer data
Number 0 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of
water used
Megalitres 0.077000 0.065000 0.026000
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric tonnes 2,220.00 436.50 99.00
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste
diverted from disposal
Metric tonnes 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste
directed to disposal
Metric tonnes 2,220.00 436.50 99.00
Bursa (Emissions management)
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes 2,107.00 1,286.00 449.00
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes 2,468.00 1,442.00 436.00
Bursa C11(c) Scope 3
emissions in tonnes of CO2e
(at least for the categories of
business travel and
employee commuting)
Metric tonnes 1,103.00 217.00 49.00
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT (CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
53
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”)
in discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting
practices as well as corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the
Group”).
1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FYE 2024”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as
follows, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of the Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and
as recommended by Step Up Practice 9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance,whereby the
Audit Committee comprises solely Independent Directors:-
Name Designation Directorship
Tai Keat Chai
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Tam Kok Meng
(Appointed with effect from 31 March 2024)
Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Hong Kok Cheong
(Appointed with effect from 31 March 2024)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad Member Independent Non-Executive Director
	The Chairman of the ARMC is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the requisite
qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements.
	Neither any of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs.
Raki CS Tan & Ramanan in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any
financial interest in Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan.
2. MEETING ATTENDANCE
	The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2024. The details of the attendance of the
respective ARMC members are as follows:-
Name No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai 3 of 4
Tam Kok Meng 1 of 1
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 3 of 4
Hong Kok Cheong 1 of 1
Adnan bin Ahmad 5 of 5
* 	The Meetings were held on 15 August 2023, 24 October 2023, 27 November 2023, 28 February 2024
and 28 May 2024.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
54
2. MEETING ATTENDANCE (cont’d)
	The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2024,
wherein the ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director
and management personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2024, which was as required in the Terms of
Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External Auditors should
be conducted annually.
3. TOR
The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC
During the FYE 2024, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties,
functions and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-
Financial performance and reporting
a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial
quarters ended 30 June 2023, 30 September 2023, 31 December 2023 and 31 March 2024, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of
the Group on quarterly basis.
c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023
(“FYE 2023”) to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view
of the Company’s financial position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with
the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
External audit
a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and
management personnel.
b) Received the AC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2023, covering
matters to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.
c) Reviewed the suitability, independence, experience and credentials of the External Auditors and
upon being satisfied, recommended to the Board for the appointment of External Auditors.
d) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2024 prepared by
the External Auditors,entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline,key audit matters
and areas of audit emphasis and accounting standard updates.
e) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2024, and recommended the
same to the Board for approval.
f) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-
• Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
• Review of component auditors’ working papers.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
55
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)
External audit (Cont’d)
g) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2024
vide a formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review
and being satisfied with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the
Board to recommend to the shareholders for approval.
h) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
Internal audit
a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to
those recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were
taken and recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.
b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit
functions vide a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary
authority to carry out its work.
c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2024 as prepared by the
Internal Auditors.
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)
a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to
ensure that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Ninth
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 27 November 2023.
b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing
Shareholder Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its
Own Shares, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
c) Assessed on any conflict of interest (“COI”) situation or potential conflict of interest situation that may
arise following transactions highlighted to the ARMC to be undertaken the Company or Group. No
COI or any potential COI were identified or reported among the board members during the financial
year under review.
Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control
a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company,
and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement,
and recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2024 Annual Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
56
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)
Other matters
a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s
peer performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of
office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they
have carried out their duties properly in accordance to the TOR.
b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the
ARMC.
c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
	The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service
provider to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective
internal control and governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is
satisfactory and operating effectively.
The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;
b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved
audit plan:-
• Risk management assessment; and
• Compliance with Guidelines on Adequate Procedures pursuant to Section 17A of the MACC Act
c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The
reports highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations
for improvements; and
d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported
the same to the ARMC.
	The internal audit reviews carried out for FYE 2024 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any
material losses,contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.
	The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 was
RM13,795.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
57
This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
under paragraph 15.26(a).
The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results
and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024:-
• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2)
of the Companies Act 2016 is set out in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report
enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the
Group are released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public
informed of the Group’s latest performance and developments.
The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are
reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities and material misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement, loss or fraud.
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
58
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of
Rex Industry Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2024 pursuant to Paragraph
15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the
Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.
The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers,and is pleased to
set out below its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of
risk management and internal control of the Group during the year.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management
and internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’investment and the Group’s
assets and regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable.The Board recognises that risk cannot
be totally eliminated and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and
provide some reasonable but not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are
safeguarded against material losses and unauthorised use and that the financial statements are not materially
misstated and the Group is managed and operated in a systematic manner.
The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility,authority
and appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered by the
Board and shall be responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting
the achievement of business objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and
managing risks is an on-going process. All significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of
the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.
The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the
Group include:
1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas
of responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;
2. Involvement of the Group Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance
at operational and management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and
procedures.The Group Managing Director has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic
issues and challenges affecting the respective business units with the heads of business units. Significant
matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the Board on a timely basis; and
3.	The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the
Group by the Group Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief
Financial Officer on quarterly basis;
The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service
provider that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.The Group adopts a risk-based approach
in identifying major operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking
into consideration corporate exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group.The Internal Auditors carry
out reviews on areas which are identified by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy
and effectiveness of the control processes to address the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the
control processes, where appropriate.
Annual Report 2024
59
The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed
appropriate within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk
Management Committee with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action
taken by Management to ensure adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal
control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure
effectiveness of the system of internal control implemented.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies
of the Group. Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees
the risk management process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”)
formed at subsidiary level.
Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks
The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has
not resulted in any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the
Group during the financial year under review or require disclosure in the 2024 Annual Report. Nevertheless, the
Board recognises the review and improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control
is an on-going process to accommodate evolving business needs.The Board believes that with the assistance
from the Internal Auditors,the system of internal control of the Group could be closely managed,monitored and
improved over time.
CONCLUSION
The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks,
procedures, management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered
appropriate. While the Board acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not
eliminate the possibility of collusion or deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors
and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might result in poor judgement, an assurance was received from
the Group Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that the risk management and internal control system
of the Group is operating adequately and effectively.The Group continues to take measures to enhance and
strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement covers all
risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control
procedures.AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors to consider whether the processes described to
deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the Annual Report will,in fact,
remedy the problems.Based on the review of the external auditors,they have reported to the Board that nothing
has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent
with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the
risk management and internal control system.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 24 October
2024.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
60
In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following
information is provided: -
1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
A. Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex (“Rex Share(s)”or“Share(s)”)
(“Rights Share(s)”) on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together
with 54,805,881 free detachable warrants in Rex (“Warrant(s)”) on the basis of 1 Warrant for every
3 Rights Shares subscribed (“Rights Issue with Warrants”)
	The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants.The
Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765.The status of the utilisation of
proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -
Details of
utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Balance
RM’000
Timeframe for
Utilisation after
Extension of Time
Business expansion 10,000 (5,534) 4,466 Within 30 months
Working capital 5,882 (5,882) –
Expenses for this
corporate exercise
560 (560) –
Total 16,442 (11,976) 4,466
B. Disposal by Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rex Industry Berhad, of the
following:-
i. All that piece of land and hereditaments measuring 24,377 square metres held under No.
Hakmilik PN 6849, Lot 3826, Mukim 13, Daerah Seberang Perai Tengah, Negeri Pulau Pinang
together with beverages & canning factories,warehouses and a 3-storey office block erected
thereon bearing the address Plot 125,Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,Taman Perindustrian
Bukit Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai, Pulau Pinang; and
ii. All that piece of land and hereditaments measuring 7,051 square metres held under No.
Hakmilik PN 10414, Lot 7067, Mukim 13, Daerah Seberang Perai Tengah, Negeri Pulau Pinang
together with the building erected thereon bearing the address Plot 126,Jalan Perindustrian
Bukit Minyak 5, Taman Perindustrian Bukit Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai,
Pulau Pinang;
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
Annual Report 2024
61
1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals (cont’d)
B. (CONT’D)
For a total disposal consideration of RM41.80 million to be satisfied entirely via cash
	The Company had on 30 September 2024 completed the above Proposed Disposal.The status of the
utilisation of proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -
Details of
utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Balance
RM’000
Timeframe for
Utilisation
Repayment of bank
borrowings
21,046 (4,938) 16,108 Within 12 months
Working capital 16,803 (1,659) 15,144 Within 24 months
Expenses for this
corporate exercise
3,951 (3,506) 445 Within 3 months
Total 41,800 (10,103) 31,697
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the FYE 2024,External Auditors have rendered certain audit and non-audit services to the Company
and the Group.A breakdown of the fees paid is as follows:-
Item
Company
(RM)
Group
(RM)
Audit services rendered
Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2024 55,000 208,770
Non-audit services rendered
a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal
Control
8,000 8,000
b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers 21,000 21,000
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’
interests or are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2023.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
62
4. Recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (“RRPTs”)
The RRPTs entered into by the Group during FYE 2024 were as follows:-
Nature of RRPTs
RRPTs entered into
between the Group
with related parties
Interested Directors
and/or interested
major shareholders
Aggregate value of
RRPTs during FYE 2024
(RM)
Vehicle fleet management
services provided by
Safworks Sdn. Bhd.
(“Safworks”)
• Rex Canning Co.
Sdn. Bhd.
• Rex Trading
Sdn. Bhd.
• Darmendran
Kunaretnam1
• Eighth Jewels2
97,487
Transportation, freight
handling services and
warehouse management
provided by Airoceanic
Express Sdn. Bhd.
(“Airoceanic”) and
Safeguards Oceanic
Sdn. Bhd. (“Safeguards
Oceanic”)
• Rex Canning
Co Sdn. Bhd.
• Rex Trading
Sdn. Bhd.
• PT Rex Canning
• Summit
	Teamtrade (2011)
Sdn. Bhd.
• Cinta Edar (M)
Sdn. Bhd.
• Darmendran
Kunaretnam1
• Eighth Jewels2
4,515,304
Purchase of air tickets
and tour arrangement
from Gem Travel Sdn. Bhd.
(“Gem Travel”)
• Rex Canning
Co Sdn. Bhd.
• Rex Trading
Sdn. Bhd.
Chee Cheng Chun3 44,274
Notes:
The following Directors and/or major shareholders of REX are deemed interested:
(1) Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam is a Director and major shareholder of the Company. He is a director of
Safworks and Airoceanic.
(2) Eighth Jewels Systems Sdn. Bhd. (“Eighth Jewels”) is the ultimate holding company of Safworks,
Airoceanic and Safeguards Oceanic. Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam is a director and controlling
shareholder of Eighth Jewels.
(3) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun is a Director and major shareholder of the Company. He is a director and
controlling shareholder of Gem Travel.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
(Cont’d)
63
Annual Report 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Our History and Business
Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by
the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd.The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of
Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding
company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ("Bursa Securities"). The
Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited
company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa
Securities on 29 November 1995.
Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food,beverage and confectionary products.Rex Canning
Co. Sdn. Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading
manufacturer, distributor and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. PT
Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began commercial operations in August 1992; with principal activities in
manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent standards set by
the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. Most of the PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the
US and EU.
Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing
population.
Our Policy
Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business.They
are implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance
with local and international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.
Financial Performance
For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2024, the Group recorded a revenue of RM130.52 million which
represents a reduction of approximately RM31.89 million when compared to the preceding financial year of
RM162.41 million. The decline in revenue was mainly due to weaker demand from both local and overseas
market.
The Group recorded a loss before tax of RM4.18 million for FYE 30 June 2024 when compared to preceding
financial year’s loss of RM43.41 million.The huge loss in the preceding financial year was due to additional cost
incurred in relation to the decommissioning of Bukit Minyak facility for one-off impairment of the plants’ fixed
assets, provision allowance of inventories obsolescence and staff retrenchment cost.
The lower loss in this financial year was mainly attributed to cost control initiatives instituted and better operational
efficiencies from the business rationalisation plan.
REX GROUP 		 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024
(All in RM’000)
Revenue 		 161,111 162,408 130,522
(Loss)/Profit before tax 			 2,934 (43,414) (4,181)
The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and
deliver satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
64
Financial Highlights
30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22 30 Jun 23 30 Jun 24
	RM’000	RM’000	RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Statement of Profit and Loss
Revenue 149,245 160,539 161,111 162,408 130,522
				
(Loss)/Profit before Tax after
Minority Interest (8,396) 3,912 2,934 (43,414) (4,181)
					
Interest expense 2,050 1,531 1,171 1,617 1,707
(Loss)/Profit after Tax and
Minority Interest (9,465) 2,603 2,027 (44,399) (4,167)
Dividend declared – (987) – – –
 
Statement of Financial Position
Paid-up Share Capital 73,742 97,903 97,903 113,717 113,717
Shareholders Funds 101,891 127,404 129,714 103,562 96,361
Borrowings 42,209 28,884 27,804 31,766 24,849
Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”) 94,854 120,367 122,677 96,525 89,324
Financial Ratio
					
Investment Ratio
NTA per share 0.38 0.24 0.25 0.15 0.14
					
Basic (Loss)/Earnings
 Per Share (Sen) (3.84) 0.64 0.38 (7.04) (0.63)
Dividend per share (sen) – 0.2 – – –
Operating Ratio					
					
After tax return on
  shareholders’ fund (%) (9.29) 2.04 1.56 (42.87) (4.32)
Pre-tax profit margin (%) (5.63) 2.44 1.82 (26.73) (3.20)
Financial Ratio					
Gearing (times) 0.42 0.23 0.22 0.31 0.26
Interest Coverage ratio (3.10) 3.55 3.51 (25.85) (1.45)
					
Liquidity ratio
Current ratio 1.32 1.87 1.79 1.67 2.04
Quick ratio 0.61 0.93 0.83 0.77 1.08
Note:
1) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit after tax
attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial
year.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
65
Annual Report 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
CORPORATE EXERCISE
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has completed the disposal of the land
and buildings bearing the address plot 125 & 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,Taman Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai, Pulau Pinang for a disposal consideration of RM41.80 million
on 30 September 2024.
The proceeds from the disposal will be utilised firstly to repay bank borrowings, secondly for working capital
required on day-to day operations of the Group and lastly to defray expenses related to the disposal.
Outlook and Prospects
The Group expects the business environment in the remaining year to remain challenging due to uncertainties
that pose risks to business including the on-going global geopolitical tensions, inflationary pressures and rising
costs of raw materials, packaging materials together with uncertainities in logistic cost and availability.
The Group will continue to focus on improving our performance through product innovation, new product
launches, improving operational efficiency, adopting cost saving measures and broadening the distribution
network to grow the Group’s revenue and profitability.
Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board, I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our new Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Mr Hong Kok Cheong and new Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, Mr Tam Kok
Meng, who have been appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024.Their combined experiences and expertise
will contribute positively to the strategies and direction of the Group.
I would like to record our appreciation to previous members of the Board,Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim and Mr Tai
Keat Chai for their invaluable contributions to the Company during their tenures as Directors of the Company.
I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their
continued support, trust, and unwavering confidence over the past years.
To all our staff and management team,thank you for your dedication and commitment in driving the Company
to greater heights.
DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
66
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
Class of Securities : Ordinary Shares
Total Number of Holders : 1,572
Number of Issued Share Capital : 657,670,581
Voting Rights : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
		
No. of 		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings		 Shareholders % Shares Held %
1 – 99		 34 2.16 952 0.00
100 – 1,000		 158 10.05 65,917 0.01
1,001 – 10,000		 468 29.77 2,873,867 0.44
10,001 – 100,000		 695 44.21 27,496,267 4.18
100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		 215 13.68 430,470,712 65.45
32,883,529 and above (**)		 2 0.13 196,762,866 29.92
TOTAL		 1,572 100.00 657,670,581 100.00
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
** 5% and above of Issued Shares
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on
the Register of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
		 No. of		 No. of
Substantial Shareholders		 Shares Held % Shares Held %
Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		 183,577,800 27.91 – –
Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam		 83,399,603 12.68 183,577,800 (1) 27.91
Chee Cheng Chun 		 – – 183,577,800 (1) 27.91
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
Annual Report 2024
67
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the
Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
		
No. of		 No. of
Directors		 Shares Held % Shares Held %
Hong Kok Cheong		 – – – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603 12.68 183,577,800 (1) 27.91
Chee Cheng Chun		 – – 183,577,800 (1) 27.91
Tam Kok Meng 		 – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad		
– – – –
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		 – – 100,000(2) 0.02
Chris Kong Wai Fa		 – – – –
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 151,352,200 23.01
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
45,410,666 6.90
3. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd. 32,640,900 4.96
4. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
32,225,600 4.90
5. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd. 32,033,866 4.87
6. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd. 28,997,200 4.41
7. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan 21,306,666 3.24
8. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd. 20,954,800 3.19
9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)
17,990,300 2.74
10. Darmendran Kunaretnam 14,560,672 2.21
11. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd. 13,273,733 2.02
12. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)
12,024,600 1.83
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
68
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
(CONT’D)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares (%)
13. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)
11,481,066 1.75
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))
10,477,066 1.59
15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
9,415,600 1.43
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)
8,650,666 1.32
17. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))
8,533,333 1.30
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
8,068,266 1.23
19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)
7,216,000 1.10
20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))
6,826,666 1.04
21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd. 6,666,666 1.01
22. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Tang Kam Sing (E-KTN))
6,600,000 1.00
23. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
Exempt An for Aham Asset Management Berhad (TSTAC/CLNTT)
6,596,000 1.00
24. Haridas A/L Suppiah 6,531,066 0.99
25. Kuek Boon Siang 5,292,100 0.80
26. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
5,040,000 0.77
27. Securicor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 4,772,700 0.73
28. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)
4,602,000 0.70
29. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
(Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
4,266,666 0.65
30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))
2,666,666 0.41
TOTAL 546,473,730 83.09
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
69
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
Class of Securities : Warrants A
Number of Outstanding Warrants A Issued : 54,805,755
Total Number of Holders : 382
Exercise Ratio : 1 Warrant for 1 Ordinary Share
Maturity Date : 23 August 2027
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANT A HOLDINGS
Size of Warrant A Holdings
No. of 		 No. of
Warrant A Holders % Warrants A %
1 – 99 40 10.47 1,895 0.00
100 – 1,000 61 15.97 31,537 0.06
1,001 – 10,000 149 39.01 558,184 1.02
10,001 – 100,000 82 21.47 2,865,871 5.23
100,001 – 2,740,286 (*) 45 11.78 26,066,436 47.56
2,740,287 and above (**) 5 1.31 25,281,832 46.13
TOTAL 382 100.00 54,805,755 100.00
				
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Warrants A
** 5% and above of Issued Warrants A
DIRECTORS’WARRANT A HOLDINGS
The Directors’Warrant A Holdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’Warrant Holdings of
the Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
No. of		 No. of
Warrants A 		 Warrants A
Directors Held % Held %
Hong Kok Cheong – – – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965 12.68 14,525,866 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun		 – – 14,525,866 (1) 26.50
Tam Kok MEng		 – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad		
– – – –
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		 – – 33,333 (2) 0.06
Chris Kong Wai Fa – – – –
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
70
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 10,423,733 19.02
2. Warrants Capital Limited 4,204,700 7.67
3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
4,102,133 7.48
4. CGS-International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Hee Yuen Sang (MY2105))
3,756,000 6.85
5. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd. 2,795,266 5.10
6. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd. 2,669,488 4.87
7. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
2,534,222 4.62
8. Darmendran Kunaretnam 2,463,389 4.49
9. Chai Mei Ling 1,925,000 3.51
10. Voon Jye Wah 1,445,300 2.64
11. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd. 1,130,200 2.06
12. Hee Yuen Sang 1,105,000 2.02
13. GV Asia Fund Limited 982,300 1.79
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))
877,255 1.60
15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
784,666 1.43
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)
720,888 1.32
17. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))
711,111 1.30
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
672,355 1.23
19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)
601,333 1.10
20. Muhamad Fairiezal Bin Basri 593,600 1.08
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
71
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER
2024 (CONT’D)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares (%)
21. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587)
568,888 1.04
22. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd. 555,555 1.01
23. Samsuri Bin Daud 507,200 0.93
24. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
420,000 0.77
25. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
(Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
355,555 0.65
26. Chai Mei Ling 329,000 0.60
27. Ewe Hong Khoon 316,833 0.58
28. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng Yong Leng (E-IMO))
258,000 0.47
29. See Chong Gay 249,400 0.46
30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))
222,222 0.41
TOTAL 48,280,592 88.09
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
72
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
199301027926 (282664-K)
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd
100%
Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
100%
100% Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
100% Best Aqua Food Sdn Bhd
100% Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd
100% Rex Foods Sdn Bhd
100% Gainasia International Limited
30%
100% Fika Foods Corporation Sdn Bhd
70% P
.T. REX CANNING
Annual Report 2024
73
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
The Directors hereby present their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
1. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
	The Company is an investment holding company.The principal activities of the subsidiaries companies are
as stated in Note 15 to the financial statements.
There has been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
2. RESULTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR
				
GROUP COMPANY
				RM RM
				
Loss for the financial year, net of tax attributable to
 Owners of the Company				 4,167,260 419,244
3. DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
4. RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
	There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions except as disclosed in the financial
statements.
5. ISSUANCE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
	The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
6. WARRANTS 2022/2027
During the financial year, no warrants were exercised. As at 30 June 2024, the total number of Warrants
2022/2027 that remained unexercised were 54,805,755.
	The salient features and other terms of the Warrants 2022/2027 are disclosed in Note 23(b) to the financial
statements.
Details of Warrants 2022/2027 issued to Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Interests section of this
report.
 
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
74
7. OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
	No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial
year.
8. DIRECTORS
	The Directors who have held office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are
as follows:
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Chee Cheng Chun*
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim*
Kong Wai Fa*
Hong Kok Cheong (Appointed on 13 March 2024)
Tam Kok Meng (Appointed on 13 March 2024)
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
Tai Keat Chai (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
*	These Directors are also Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries.
	The name of the Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries in office since the beginning of the financial year
to the date of this report (not including those Directors listed above) are:
Drs. Lody Joko Susilo
Vong Nee Toh (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
9. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the
interests of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
related corporations, if any, during the financial year are as follows:
		 Number of Ordinary Shares
			At			At
			01.07.2023 Bought Sold 30.06.2024
			Unit Unit Unit Unit
Name of Directors
Ordinary shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603 – – 83,399,603
Indirect interests:
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 174,310,400 9,267,400 – 183,577,800
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 174,310,400 9,267,400 – 183,577,800
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		 100,000 – – 100,000
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
75
9. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (cont’d)
According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the
interests of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
related corporations, if any, during the financial year are as follows:
		 Number of Warrants
			At		
Sold/ At
			01.07.2023 Bought Conversion 30.06.2024
			Unit Unit Unit Unit
Warrants shareholding registered
  in the name of Directors
In the Company					
Direct interest:
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965 – – 6,949,965
Indirect interest:
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 14,525,866 – – 14,525,866
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 14,525,866 – – 14,525,866
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		 33,333 – – 33,333
* Deemed interested via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
^ Indirect interest by virtue of shares held by his spouse pursuant to Section 59 and 197 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
	The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares and
warrants of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.
10. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
	The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the
Company and the estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise
than in cash from the Company and its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries
were disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Since the end of the previous financial year,no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed
in the financial statements or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a
contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, except
as disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements.
	There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
76
11. INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS OR AUDITORS
	No indemnities have been given or insurance premiums paid, during or since the end of the year, for any
person who is or has been the Director, officer or auditor of the Company.
12. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the statements of financial position and statements of comprehensive income of the Group and of
the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the
making of allowance for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had
been written off and adequate allowance had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary
course of business had been written down to their expected realisable values.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of allowance for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial
extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
	No contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable within the
period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which,in the opinion of the Directors,will or may
substantially affect the ability of the Group or of the Company to meet its obligations as and when they fall
due.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
financial year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of
the financial year.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this
report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company misleading.
In the opinion of the Directors, no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen
in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect
substantially the results of the operations of the Group or of the Company for the financial year in which
this report is made.
 
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
77
13. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD
Significant events during the financial year and events after the reporting period are disclosed in Note 36
and Note 37 respectively to the financial statements.
14. AUDITORS
	The total amount receivable by the auditors as remuneration are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial
statements.
	The auditors, Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan, Chartered Accountants, have expressed their willingness to
continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24 October
2024.
HONG KOK CHEONG
Director
DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Director
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
78
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
We, Hong Kok Cheong and Darmendran Kunaretnam, being two of the Directors of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD,
do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the accompanying financial statements set out on pages
84 to 159 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to
give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024 and of
their financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the Company for the financial year then ended.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24 October
2024.
HONG KOK CHEONG
Director
DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Director
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
I,Chia HupTong,being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements set out on pages 84 to 159 are
in my opinion correct,and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by
virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
CHIA HUP TONG
Officer
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named
At Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 24 October 2024.
Before me,
THANGAPERUMAL A/L ANDIMUTHU
W 919
Annual Report 2024
79
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD 199301027926 (282664 - K)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statement of financial
position as at 30 June 2024 and the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of
changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of material accounting policies, as set out
on pages 84 to 159.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year
then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards onAuditing.Our responsibilities under those standards are further described inAuditors’Responsibilities
for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year.These matters
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment on goodwill
Goodwill on consolidation amounting to RM7,037,480 is disclosed in Note 16 to the financial statements and
is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any, as stated in Note 6(j) to the financial statements.
As stated in Note 5(b), the Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of
impairment exists,perform impairment assessment on goodwill that has an indefinite useful life.For the purpose
of performing impairment assessments, goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating unit
(“CGU”). Management have assessed the recoverable amounts of goodwill based on value in use of the CGU.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
80
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
Impairment assessment on investment in subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries amounting to RM82,013,702 is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements and is
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses as stated in Note 6(a) to the financial statements.
As stated in Note 5(e) to the financial statements, investment in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Lower net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amounts of
investments in subsidiaries may be impaired.Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount of
the investments in subsidiaries as the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Impairment assessment on property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
Property, plant and equipment amounting to RM38,167,611 is disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements
and are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses as stated in Note
6(g) to the financial statements.
As stated in Note 5(a) to the financial statements, the Group reviews the carrying amount amounts of property,
plant and equipment at each reporting date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment.
The Group has incurred loss of RM4,167,260.This gave rise to an indication that the carrying amounts of PPE
may be impaired.Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amounts of the PPE as the higher of fair
value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Management have assessed recoverable amounts as the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value
in use.We have identified the impairment assessments mentioned above as a key audit matters as the process
of estimating value in use, requires significant judgement in applying the assumptions used, in particular,
determining budgeted gross margins, growth rates and discount rates, used in the projections.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters
In addressing the Key Audit Matters, we have performed, among others, the following audit procedures:-
• Evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used in performing the impairment assessment;
• Tested the basis of preparing the cash flow forecasts taking into account the historical evidence and future
business strategies supporting the underlying assumptions;
• Evaluated the key assumptions, in particular, the weighted-average cost of capital discount rate and
growth rate of sales by comparing against internal information;
• Assessed the sensitivity of the cash flows to the changes in key assumptions used in the discounted cash
flows projections;
• Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE;
• Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments;
and
• Evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in the financial statements concerning those key
assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment assessment is most sensitive.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
81
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact.We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do
so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
■ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
82
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
■	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances,but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Group’s and the Company’s internal control.
■	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.
■ Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained,whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
■	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
■	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our
audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, action taken to eliminate threats
or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters.We describe these matters in our auditors’report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when,in extremely rare circumstances,we determine that a matter should not be
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected
to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of
which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
83
Other Matters
The financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were audited by another
firm of Chartered Accountants whose report dated 24 October 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion.
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose.We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
Signed at Kuala Lumpur on 24 October 2024.
RAKI CS TAN & RAMANAN
(AF 0190)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
HARICHANDRAN A/L A. RUBASUNDRAM
(NO. 02931/07/2025 J)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
PARTNER			
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
84
STATEMENT OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Continuing operations
Revenue 7 130,522,286 162,408,090 – –
Changes in inventories		 (10,747,561) (6,482,134) – –
Raw materials and
  consumables used		 (84,506,576) (111,457,480) – –
Staff cost		 (17,062,213) (23,357,395) (102,450) (89,100)
Depreciation		 (1,966,663) (4,656,957) – –
Other expenses		
(20,453,302) (35,244,942) (320,375) (292,896)
Impairment loss on financial assets		 – (3,336,868) – –
Impairment loss on
  non-financial assets		 (201,036) (20,633,216) – (30,745,462)
Other income 8 1,941,054 963,849 3,581 –
Loss from operations		 (2,474,011) (41,797,053) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Finance costs 9(d) (1,706,849) (1,616,892) – –
Loss before tax from
  continuing operations 9 (4,180,860) (43,413,945) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Tax benefit/(expense) 10 13,600 (985,180) – –
Loss for the financial year		 (4,167,260) (44,399,125) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Other comprehensive
  loss, net of tax
Item that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation		 (3,210,946) 2,098,635 – –
Item that will not be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		 176,804 335,128 – –
Total other comprehensive
  loss for the financial year		(3,034,142) 2,433,763 – –
Total comprehensive loss
  for the financial year		 (7,201,402) (41,965,362) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Loss attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 (4,167,260) (44,399,125) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Total comprehensive loss
  attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 (7,201,402) (41,965,362) (419,244) (31,127,458)
						
		
Basic loss per ordinary
  share attributable to Owners
  of the Company (sen):
- Basic/Diluted 11 (0.63) (7.04)
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Annual Report 2024
85
STATEMENT OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 38,167,611 52,239,323 – –
Right-of-use assets 13 415,145 5,576,472 – –
Investment properties 14 5,194,425 5,505,572 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 15 – – 82,013,702 82,013,702
Goodwill on consolidation 16 7,037,480 7,037,480 – –
		50,814,661 70,358,847 82,013,702 82,013,702
Current Assets
Inventories 17 49,679,470 58,045,582 – –
Trade receivables 18 22,788,365 28,669,726 – –
Other receivables 19 2,931,647 2,879,181 23,884 30,331
Tax recoverable		813,850 187,256 31,320 31,320
Fixed deposits with
  licensed banks 20 893,677 936,589 – –
Cash and bank balances		 8,338,811 17,427,480 22,637 22,018
		
85,445,820 108,145,814 77,841 83,669
Assets held for sale 21 19,565,851 – – –
		105,011,671 108,145,814 77,841 83,669
TOTAL ASSETS		155,826,332 178,504,661 82,091,543 82,097,371
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
86
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 22 113,716,680 113,716,680 113,716,680 113,716,680
Reserves 23 (4,779,413) (1,568,467) – –
Accumulated losses		 (12,576,420) (8,585,964) (35,298,459) (34,879,215)
Total equity attributable to
  owners of the Company		96,360,847 103,562,249 78,418,221 78,837,465
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 24 6,388,966 8,178,974 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 25 1,463,585 1,477,185 – –
Lease liabilities 26 228,019 477,939 – –
		
8,080,570 10,134,098 – –
Current liabilities
Trade payables 27 14,779,836 20,010,259 – –
Other payables 28 14,517,541 17,609,197 164,954 127,583
Rebate liability 29 3,536,175 3,296,408 – –
Amounts due to subsidiaries		 – – 3,508,368 3,132,323
Borrowings 24 18,459,673 23,586,617 – –
Lease liabilities 26 91,690 226,342 – –
Tax payable		 – 79,491 – –
		51,384,915 64,808,314 3,673,322 3,259,906
Total liabilities		59,465,485 74,942,412 3,673,322 3,259,906
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		155,826,332 178,504,661 82,091,543 82,097,371
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
87
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-distributable 		 Distributable
							
Retained
							
Earnings/
		 Share Other Translation Warrants Total (Accumulated Total
Note Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserves Losses) Equity
		
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 July 2023		
113,716,680 (2,092,584) (1,568,467) 2,092,584 (1,568,467) (8,585,964) 103,562,249
Foreign currency
  translation difference		
  for foreign operations		 – – (3,210,946) – (3,210,946) – (3,210,946)
Defined benefit plan 		
  actuarial gain		 – – – – – 176,804 176,804
Total other comprehensive
  (loss)/income for the
  financial year		 – – (3,210,946) – (3,210,946) 176,804 (3,034,142)
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – (4,167,260) (4,167,260)
Total comprehensive loss
  for the financial year		 – – (3,210,946) – (3,210,946) (3,990,456) (7,201,402)
At 30 June 2024		
113,716,680 (2,092,584) (4,779,413) 2,092,584 (4,779,413) (12,576,420) 96,360,847
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
88
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-distributable 		 Distributable
							
Retained
							
Earnings/
		 Share Other Translation Warrants Total (Accumulated Total
Note Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserves Losses) Equity
		
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
At 1 July 2022		 97,903,444 – (3,667,102) – (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375
Foreign currency		
 
translation difference									
  for foreign operation		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635
Defined benefit plan			
  actuarial gain		 – – – – – 335,128 335,128
Total other comprehensive
  income for the financial year		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 335,128 2,433,763
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – (44,399,125) (44,399,125)
Total comprehensive
  income/(loss) for the
  financial year		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 (44,063,997) (41,965,362)
Transaction with Owners
  of the Company
Rights issue with warrants, 22,
  net of transaction costs 23 15,813,236 (2,092,584) – 2,092,584 – – 15,813,236
At 30 June 2023		
113,716,680 (2,092,584) (1,568,467) 2,092,584 (1,568,467) (8,585,964) 103,562,249
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
89
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-distributable 		 Distributable
			 Share Other Warrants Total Accumulated Total
		 Note Capital Reserve Reserve Reserves Losses Equity
			RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company
At 1 July 2022			
97,903,444 – – – (3,751,757) 94,151,687
Loss for the financial year, representing
  total comprehensive income for the
  financial year			 – – – – (31,127,458) (31,127,458)
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Rights issue with warrants, net of		 22,
transaction costs		 23 15,813,236 (2,092,584) 2,092,584 – – 15,813,236
At 30 June 2023			 113,716,680 (2,092,584) 2,092,584 – (34,879,215) 78,837,465
Loss for the financial year, representing 								
  total comprehensive income for the
  financial year			 – – – – (419,244) (419,244)
At 30 June 2024			 113,716,680 (2,092,584) 2,092,584 – (35,298,459) 78,418,221
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
90
STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Loss before tax from
 
continuing operations		 (4,180,860) (43,413,945) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Adjustments for:
Allowance for obsolete and
  slow-moving inventories		 – 5,446,445 – –
Depreciation of investment properties		 110,111 112,359 – –
Depreciation of property,
  plant and equipment		 1,637,925 4,126,210 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 218,628 418,388 – –
Gain on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment		 (931,811) – – –
Gain on lease termination		 (9,175)		 – –
Loss on lease termination		 31,107 – – –
Impairment loss on:
  - investments in subsidiaries		 – – – 30,745,462
  - property, plant and equipment		 – 20,633,216 – –
  - investment properties		 201,036 – – –
  - trade receivables		 – 548,859 – –
  - other receivables		 – 2,788,009 – –
Interest expense		 1,706,849 1,616,892 – –
Interest income		 (183,172) (149,217) – –
(Reversal)/provision for employee
 
termination benefits		(110,614) 900,000 – –
Provision for dismantling and relocation cost – 360,000 – –
Reversal of impairment loss on:
  - trade receivables		 – (186,244) – –
  - other receivables		 – (213,599) – –
Reversal of allowance for obsolete
  and slow-moving inventories		 – (6,493) – –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		 413,368 423,394 – –
Waiver of lease liabilities		 – (7,500) – –
Investment in subsidiaries written off		 – – – 10
Operating loss before changes in
 
working capital		
(1,096,608) (6,603,226) (419,244) (381,986)
Changes in working capital:
  Inventories		 5,318,208 (3,094,657) – –
 Trade and other receivables		 4,446,524 6,960,938 6,447 205,166
 Trade and other payables		 (5,454,701) (975,295) 7,371 (127,789)
 
Rebate liability		
239,767 2,700,132 – –
Cash from/(used in) operations		3,453,190 (1,012,108) (405,426) (304,609)
  Interest paid		 (1,706,849) (1,616,892) – –
  Interest received		 183,172 149,217 – –
 Tax paid		 (723,202) (1,029,916) – –
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 1,206,311 (3,509,699) (405,426) (304,609)
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Annual Report 2024
91
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Acquisition of property,
  plant and equipment		 (3,023,941) (1,673,746) – –
Sales proceed form disposal of property,
  plant and equipment		 990,625 – – –
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:
- Cash payments		 – (89,896) – –
Advances to subsidiaries		 – – – (15,712,319)
Net cash used in investing activities		 (2,033,316) (1,763,642) – (15,712,319)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
(Repayment to)/advance
from Directors		 (1,795,445) (4,307,970) 30,000 –
Advances from subsidiaries		 – – 376,045 132,400
Drawdown/(repayment) of
  borrowings, net		 (5,957,540) 2,716,375 – –
Payment for the principal
  portion of lease liabilities		 (101,172) (280,061) – –
Proceeds from issuance of rights issue
  with warrants net of transaction costs		 – 15,813,236 – 15,813,236
Net cash (used in)/from
  financing activities		 (7,854,157) 13,941,580 406,045 15,945,636
Net increase/(decrease) in
  cash and cash equivalents		(8,681,162) 8,668,239 619 (71,292)
Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of the financial year		 16,291,889 7,507,269 22,018 93,310
Effect of exchange rate changes
  on cash and cash equivalents		 (137,668) 116,381 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of the financial year		
7,473,059 16,291,889 22,637 22,018
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
92
(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances		 8,338,811 17,427,480 22,637 22,018
Fixed deposits with
  licensed banks 20 893,677 936,589 – –
			
9,232,488 18,364,069 22,637 22,018
Less: Bank overdrafts 24 (1,759,429) (2,072,180) – –
			
7,473,059 16,291,889 22,637 22,018
(ii)	The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:
		 Amount due Banker’s		 Revolving Lease
		 to Directors acceptance Term loans credit liabilities
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2024
At 1 July 2023 4,295,838 17,340,209 9,353,202 3,000,000 704,281
Disposal – – – – (254,041)
Exchange differences – (646,661) – – (29,359)
Interest expense – 957,570 504,725 82,064 46,350
Repayment (1,795,445) (2,465,342) (1,954,493) (3,082,064) (147,522)
Net changes in
  financing cash flows (1,795,445) (1,507,772) (1,449,768) (3,000,000) (101,172)
At 30 June 2024 2,500,393 15,185,776 7,903,434 – 319,709
2023
At 1 July 2022 8,603,808 13,009,048 10,512,227 3,000,000 663,147
Additions – – – – 308,529
Waiver of lease liabilities – – – – (7,500)
Exchange differences – 455,761 – – 20,166
Interest expense – 836,536 529,864 145,413 26,149
Repayment (4,307,970) – (1,688,889) (145,413) (306,210)
Drawdown, net – 3,038,864 – – –
Net changes in
  financing cash flows (4,307,970) 3,875,400 (1,159,025) – (280,061)
At 30 June 2023 4,295,838 17,340,209 9,353,202 3,000,000 704,281
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
Annual Report 2024
93
(ii)	The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: (Cont’d)
						
Amount due
						
to subsidiaries
						
RM
Company
2024
At 1 July 2023					 3,132,323
Advances from					
376,045
At 30 June 2024					 3,508,368
2023
At 1 July 2022					 2,999,923
Advances from					 132,400
At 30 June 2023					 3,132,323
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
94
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
(a) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
	The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on
the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
	The Company is an investment holding company.The principal activities of the subsidiaries companies
are as stated in Note 15 to the financial statements.
	There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
(b) REGISTERED OFFICE
	The registered office of the Company is located at No. 46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan Medan Setia 2,
Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur.
(c) PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
	The principal place of business of the Company is located at No. 46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan
Medan Setia 2, Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur.
(d) DATE OF AUTHORISATION OF ISSUE OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	The financial statements of the Group and of the Company were authorised for issue by the Board of
Directors in accordance with their resolution on 24 October 2024.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRS”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
	The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
disclosed in notes to the financial statements.The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia
(“RM”).
3. NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED
	On 1 July 2023, the Company adopted the following MFRSs, Amendments to MFRS and Issue Committee
(“IC”) Interpretations which were effective for the financial year:
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9- Comparative Information
Amendments to MFRS 101
and MFRS Practice Statement 2
Disclosure of Accounting Policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from single
transaction; and International Tax Reform- Pillar Two Model Rules
Annual Report 2024
95
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
3. NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED (cont’d)
	The accounting policies adopted by the Company are consistent with those adopted in the previous year.
The adoption of the above amendments did not have any significant financial impact on the financial
statements, except for:
Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2: Disclosure of accounting policies
	The amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2 provide guidance and examples to help
entities apply materiality judgements to accounting policy disclosures. The amendments aim to help
entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by replacing the requirement for entities
to disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with a requirement to disclose their ‘material’ accounting
policies and adding guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality in making decisions about
accounting policy disclosures.
	The amendments impact the Company’s disclosures of accounting policies, but not the measurement,
recognition or presentation of items in the Company’s financial statements.
4. STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE
	The following Standards,Amendments and Issues Committee (“IC”) Interpretations of the MFRS framework
have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but are not yet effective and
have not been adopted by the Company are as follows:
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024:
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sales and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-Current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 107
and MFRS 7
Supplier Finance Arrangements
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025:
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026:
Amendments to MFRS 9
and MFRS 7
Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of Financial
Instruments
Amendments to MFRS 1 Annual Improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards- Volume 11
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027:
MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures
MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements will be withdrawn on the
application of MFRS 18
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed:
Amendments to MFRS 10 and
MFRS 128
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate
or Joint Venture
	The Company will adopt the above pronouncements when they become effective in the respective
financial periods.These pronouncements are not expected to have any material financial impact to the
current and prior period financial statements of the Company upon their initial application.
 
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
96
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
	ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithMFRSrequirestheuseofcertaincriticalaccounting
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
revenue and expenses during the reported year. It also requires the Directors to exercise their judgement
in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies.Although these estimates
and judgements are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual result
may differ.
	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
(a) Impairment of property, plant and equipment
	The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property,plant and equipment at each reporting date to
assess whether there is any indicator of impairment.When an indication exists, the Group makes an
estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s
fair value less cost to sell and its value in use (“VIU”). When the recoverable amount of an asset is
determined based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset
is allocated,the management is required to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from
the CGU and also to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those
cash flows.
(b) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist.This requires
management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which
goodwill is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value
of those cash flows.The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates
estimated and discount rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference
will impact the carrying value of goodwill.
(c) Impairment of financial assets
	The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated
with their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied as
disclosed in Note 6(n) depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables,the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted by MFRS
9, which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
 
For other receivables and amount due from related parties, the Group and the Company apply
the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to measure the
allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the probability of
default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss given default of that financial asset.
For amount due from subsidiaries, the Company applies the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which
requires the Company to measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an
amount based on the probability of default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss
given default of that financial asset.
Annual Report 2024
97
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (cont’d)
	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
(Cont’d)
(d) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories
In conjunction with the business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would lead
to decommissioning of one of the subsidiary’s production facilities in prior year, the management
performed a review for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.When necessary,allowance is provided
for obsolete and slow-moving inventories to adjust the carrying value of inventories to the lower of
cost and net realisable value. The identification of obsolete and slow-moving inventories is based
on considerations such as future demand and selling prices for each product, quality concern
and other factors. This review required judgement and estimates where possible changes in these
estimates could result in revision to the valuation of inventories.
(e) Carrying value of investment in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions
and judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in
assumptions could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries.
(f) Defined benefit plan
	The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the
present value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation
involves making assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability
rate and resignation rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the
appropriate discount rate, management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market
yield on government bond which sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of
calculation.
The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 28(v).
(g) Classification between investment properties and property, plant and equipment
Certain property comprises a portion that is held to earn rental income or capital appreciation,or for
both, whilst the remaining portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods and services
or for administrative purposes. If the portion held for rental and/or capital appreciation could be
sold separately (or leased out separately as a finance lease), the Group accounts for that portion
as an investment property. If the portion held for rental and/or capital appreciation could not be
sold or leased out separately, it is classified as an investment property only if an insignificant portion
of the property is held for use in the production or supply of goods and services or for administrative
purposes. Management uses judgement to determine whether any ancillary services are of such
significance that a property does not qualify as an investment property.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
98
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (cont’d)
	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
(Cont’d)
(h) Rebate liability
	The Group participates in various promotional programmes with customers designed to increase
the sale of products.Among the programmes are arrangements under which rebates, refunds, price
concessions or similar items can be earned by customers for attaining agreed upon sales levels,or for
participating in specific marketing programmes.Those promotional programmes do not give rise to
a separate performance obligation.Where the consideration the Group is entitled to varies because
of such programmes, the amount payable is deemed to be variable consideration. Management
makes estimates on an ongoing basis for each individual promotion to assess the value of the
variable consideration based upon detailed budget agreed between management and customers.
The related accruals are recognised as a deduction from revenue or in other expenses and are not
considered distinct from the sale of products to the customer.
 
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
financial statements.
(a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
Consolidation
	The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries as at the reporting date.The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation
of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company.
Consistent accounting policies are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
The Company controls an investee if and only if the Company has all the following:
(i)	Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant
power activities of the investee);
(ii)	Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
(iii)	The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company
considers the following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are
sufficient to give it power over the investee:
(i)	The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings
of the other vote holders;
(ii)	Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
(iii) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
(iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have,
the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made,
including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
Annual Report 2024
99
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (Cont’d)
Consolidation (Cont’d)
Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases
when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
	Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit
balance.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing
control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.The carrying amounts of the
Group’s interest and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative
interests in the subsidiaries.The resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to
owners of the Company.
When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are
compared to the Group’s share of the net assets disposed.The difference together with the carrying
amount of allocated goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised
as gain or loss on disposal.
Business combination
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.The cost of an acquisition
is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred,measured at acquisition date fair value
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.The Group elects on a transaction-by-
transaction basis whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.Transaction cost incurred are
expensed and included in the profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at
the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is
deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit
or loss or a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as
equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances
where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in
accordance with the appropriate MFRS.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of
embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date
through profit or loss. Discount on acquisition which represents negative goodwill is recognised
immediately as income in profit or loss.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
100
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (Cont’d)
Subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at
cost less impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal
proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-
group transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
financial statements.
(b) FOREIGN CURRENCY
(i) Foreign currency transactions and balances
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other
than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using
the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated
in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the
exchange rates on the reporting date. Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies
are not retranslated at the reporting date except for those that are measured at fair value are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was
determined.
	Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of
monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences
arising on monetary items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.
(ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
	The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different
from the presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated
into RM as follows:-
• Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate
prevailing at the reporting date;
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year,
which approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and
• All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.
	Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when
control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.
	On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect
of the subsidiary is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the
cumulative translation differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other partial
disposals.
Annual Report 2024
101
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(c) REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied,
i.e. when the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is
transferred to the customer.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct
goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to
the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business
practices.
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of
consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar
items, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the
expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one
performance obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation
based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.
	The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the
variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
	The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time.The
control over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
-	The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s
performance as the Group performs;
-	The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset
is created or enhanced; or
-	The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has
an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at
which the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
102
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(c) REVENUE RECOGNITION (Cont’d)
Rebate Liability
A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable)
from the customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to return to
the customer.The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs its obligation
under the contracts.
	The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and
discounts are offset against amount payable by the customer.To estimate the variable consideration
for the expected future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method.
The Group then applies the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and
recognises a refund liability for the expected future rebates.
Other income
Other income earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:
(i) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
(ii) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
(d) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Short term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the
financial year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term
accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are
rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leaves are recognised when absences
occur.
	The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
reporting period.
Defined contribution plans
As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the national pension scheme,
the Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the
relevant state pension scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once
the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Annual Report 2024
103
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(d) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont’d)
Defined benefit plan
	The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for
each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their
service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value.Any
unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount
rate is the yield at the end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from Indonesia
Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits
are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the
projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of
any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the
form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to
calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding
requirements that apply to any plan in the Group.An economic benefit is available to the Group if it
is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
When the benefits of a plan are improved,the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service
by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the
benefits become vested.To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.
	The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans to equity in
other comprehensive income in the period when they arise and all expenses related to defined
benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.
	The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan
when the curtailment or settlement occurs.The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting
change in the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation
and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been
recognised.
(e) BORROWING COSTS
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are recognised
in the profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale,are capitalised
as part of the cost of those assets.
	The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are
necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress.Capitalisation of borrowing
costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying
asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
104
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(f) INCOME TAXES
Current tax
	Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the
expected amount payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and
foreign operations, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any
adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the
related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method,on all temporary differences between the carrying
amount of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases.Deferred tax
is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill,the initial
recognition of assets and liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a business combination
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates
that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are realised or the liabilities are settled,
based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting
date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary
differences relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
that future taxable profit will be available for the assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is
adjusted against goodwill on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in
the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the
acquisition cost.
Annual Report 2024
105
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(g) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
	Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses.
(i) Recognition and measurement
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and
any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended
use, cost of replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected
cost for the decommissioning of the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets
also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are
capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and
maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
When significant parts of an item of property,plant and equipment have different useful lives,they
are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
	Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
benefits are expected from its use or disposal.Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property,
plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
	The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within
the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.The costs of the day-to-day
servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components
of individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the
remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated
useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following
annual rates:-
						
%
Buildings					
2
Plant, machinery and factory equipment				 5 - 20
Furniture, fittings and office equipment				 5 - 20
Motor vehicles					
20
Land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period, and adjusted as appropriate.
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until
they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these
property, plant and equipment.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
106
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(h) CAPITAL WORK-IN PROGRESS
Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes
borrowing costs incurred during the period of construction.
	No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the
cost will be transferred to property, plant and equipment.
 
(i) INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Investment properties are properties which are owned or held to earn rental income or for capital
appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or
supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are measured initially at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly
attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The cost of self-constructed investment
property includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other cost directly attributable to
bringing the investment property to a working condition for their intended use.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.The principal annual rates of depreciation used
are:
						
%
Building					
2
	The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, annually.
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the
investment properties are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is
expected from its disposal.Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment property
are recognised in profit or loss in the financial period in which they arise.
	Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use.For a transfer
from investment property to owner-occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent accounting
is the carrying amount at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property becomes an
investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy stated
under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use.
(j) INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase
consideration and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities in the subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
losses, if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when
indication of impairment exists.Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.
	Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the
computation of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement
of comprehensive income.
Annual Report 2024
107
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(k) INVENTORIES
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
	The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
existing location and condition.
Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for
as follows:
- cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a
weighted average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).
- cost of finished goods includes raw materials and packing materials,labour and an appropriate
proportion of production overheads.
	Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(i) Initial recognition and measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when,
and only when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of
the instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or
a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value
through profit or loss,transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance.
A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the
transaction price.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract
is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely
related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is
not measured at fair value through profit or loss.The host contract, in the event an embedded
derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to
the nature of the host contract.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
108
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)
(ii) Financialinstrumentcategoriesandsubsequentmeasurementrecognitionandmeasurement
The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business
model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified
on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the business model.
Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model
whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding.The financial assets are not designated as fair value through
profit or loss.Subsequent to initial recognition,these financial assets are measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
Interest income,foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in the profit
or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the profit or loss. Interest income is
recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount except for credit
impaired financial assets [Note 6(n)] where the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised
cost.
All financial assets are subject to impairment assessment [Note 6(n)].
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
	Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss.Any
gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
(iii) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statements
of financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to
realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Annual Report 2024
109
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)
(iv) Financial guarantee contract
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value.Subsequently,they are measured
at higher of:
• the amount of the loss allowance; and
• the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.
Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
(v) Regular way of purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
convention in the market place concerned.
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised,as applicable,
using trade date accounting.Trade date accounting refers to:
(a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date;
and
(b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
(vi) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the
cash flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or substantially all
of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred to another party. On
derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of
the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)
and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is recognised in the profit
or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability,
the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred
to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or
liabilities assumed, is recognised in the profit or loss.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
110
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(m) IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
	The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication
exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit
exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the profit or loss,
unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount,in which such impairment loss is recognised directly
against any revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed
the amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest
identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and
groups.
	The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use and its
fair value less costs to sell.In assessing value-in-use,the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
	Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
impairment at the end of each reporting period.Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case
it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less
costs to sell and present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the
investment including the proceeds from its disposal.Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount
is recognised in the profit or loss.
(n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
	The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on
financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit
losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-
(i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the
12 months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument
is less than 12 months); or
(ii)	Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over the
expected life of a financial instrument.
	The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in
credit risk.
Annual Report 2024
111
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)
Simplified approach – trade receivables
	The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables
as permitted by MFRS 9.The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised
from initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are
estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss
experience,adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors,general economic conditions and an
assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date,
including time value of money where applicable.
General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts
	The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at
an amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial
instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased
significantly since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime
ECLs. In assessing whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and
supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.This includes both
quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s
historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward looking information,
where available.
If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the
financial instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since
initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.
	The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management
purposes when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company
in full, without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is
held).
	The Company considers a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of the loan
is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors of the subsidiaries in full,without recourse by the
Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).The Company only apply a discount
rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into account by adjusting the expected cash
shortfalls.
	The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over
which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
112
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)
Credit impaired financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that
have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
	Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following
events
- Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
- A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than 90
days past due);
-	The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not
otherwise consider (e.g.the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company
on terms that the Group and the Company would not consider otherwise);
- It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
or
-	The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.
Write-off policy
	The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that
there is no realistic prospect of recovery.This is generally the case when the Group or the Company
determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient
cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off
could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s
procedures for recovery of amounts due.Any recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.
(o) EQUITY INSTRUMENTS
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and
of the Company after deducting all of their liabilities.
(i)	Ordinary shares
	Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental
transaction costs. Ordinary shares are equity instruments. Dividends on ordinary shares are
recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
(ii) Issuance expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issuance of instruments classified as equity are recognised as
a deduction from equity.
Annual Report 2024
113
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)
(iii) Warrants reserve
Rights Issue with Warrants
	Total proceeds received by the Company arising from the Rights Issue with Warrants have been
allocated to two types of equity instruments i.e. share capital and warrants. Fair value of Rights
Issue and Warrants are adjusted for the apportionment of its relative fair value between share
capital and warrants.The amount allocated to warrant represents the relative fair value of the
warrant issued are credited to a warrants reserve which is non-distributable. Warrants reserve is
transferred to the share capital account upon the exercise of warrants and the warrants reserve
in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants period will be transferred to
other reserve.
(p) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
A non-current asset held for sale represents an asset whose carrying amount will be recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the
sale must be highly probable and the non-current asset (or disposal group) must be available for
immediate sale in its present condition. The appropriate level of management must be committed
to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year
from its classification.
Disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale are included in the Statement of financial
position at fair value less costs to sell, if this is lower than the previous carrying amount.
	Once an asset is classified as held for sale or included in a group of assets held for sale, no further
depreciation or amortisation is recorded.
(q) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CONTINGENT ASSETS
	The Group and the Company does not recognise a contingent liability but discloses its existence in
the financial statements. A contingent liability is a probable obligation that arises from past events
whose existence will be confirmed by uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group and
the Company or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an
outflow or resources will be required to settle the obligation.
A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare circumstances where there is a liability that cannot
be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably.
A contingent asset is a probable asset that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed
by uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group and the Company.The Group and the
Company does not recognise contingent assets but discloses its existence where inflows of economic
benefits are probable, but not virtually certain.
(r) OPERATING SEGMENTS
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it
may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions
with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed
regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the
Company, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its
performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
114
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(s) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal
market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as
far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1 : Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 :	Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
	The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
(t) EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year for the effects of
all dilutive potential ordinary shares and warrants.
(u) PROVISIONS
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present
legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting
the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the liability.The unwinding of the discount is recognised as
finance cost.
7. REVENUE
	The Group sells a range of canned food, beverages and premix products. Revenue from sales of products
are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred,being the date when
the customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.
Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 32.
Annual Report 2024
115
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
8. OTHER INCOME
Other income comprise of:					
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Gain on disposal of property,
 
plant and equipment		
931,811 – – –
Gain on foreign exchange (realised)		 147,849 – – –
Gain on lease termination		 9,175 – – –
Interest income		183,172 149,217 779 –
Reversal on impairment loss
 
on trade receivables		– 186,244 – –
Reversal on impairment loss
 
on other receivables		– 213,599 – –
Reversal of allowance for obsolete
  and slow moving inventories		 – 6,493 – –
Waiver of lease liabilities		 – 7,500 – –
Scrap sales		
460,194 – – –
Sundry income		42,453 70,513 2,802 –
Rental income		 166,400 330,283 – –
			 1,941,054 963,849 3,581 –
9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
a)	Loss before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging:
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration:
- statutory audit		 208,770 224,681 55,000 60,000
- other services		29,000 36,726 29,000 8,000
- under provision in prior year		 12,251 – 4,080 –
Allowance for obsolete and
  slow-moving inventories		 – 5,446,445 – –
Depreciation of investment
  properties		 110,111 112,359 – –
Depreciation of property,
  plant and equipment		 1,637,925 4,126,210 – –
Depreciation of
 right- of-use assets		218,628 418,388 – –
Employee benefits
  expense (Note b)		 17,062,213 23,357,395 102,450 89,100
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
116
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (cont’d)
a)	Loss before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging: (Cont’d)
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Impairment loss on:
- investments in subsidiaries		 – – – 30,745,462
- property, plant and equipment		 – 20,633,216 – –
- investment properties		 201,036 – – –
- trade receivables		 – 548,859 – –
- other receivables		 – 2,788,009 – –
Provision for dismantling
  and relocation cost		 – 360,000 – –
Realised loss on foreign exchange – 2,239 – –
Short-term lease and lease
  of low value assets:
- premises		867,761 774,599 – –
- equipment		170,477 210,277 – –
Loss on lease termination		 31,107 – – –
Unrealised loss on foreign
 
exchange, net		413,368 423,394 – –
Investment in subsidiaries written off – – – 10
b)	Employees benefits comprise of:
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Staff costs:
Directors’ remuneration (Note c)		 1,616,803 1,697,930 102,450 89,100
Salaries, wages, allowances
  and overtime		 15,153,921 19,969,366 – –
Income from defined benefit plan		 (2,096) (702,676) – –
Contributions to a defined
  contribution plan		 340,462 593,153 – –
Social security contributions		 63,737 899,622 – –
(Reversal)/provision for employee
 termination benefits		 (110,614) 900,000 – –
			17,062,213 23,357,395 102,450 89,100
Annual Report 2024
117
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (cont’d)
c) Directors’ remunerations comprise of:				
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Directors of the Company:
Executive Directors
Salaries, fees and other emoluments 1,162,576 1,228,335 – –
Contributions to defined
  contribution plan		 66,708 72,108 – –
Social security contributions		 4,346 1,438 – –
			 1,233,630 1,301,881 – –
Non-executive Directors
Fees and allowances		216,950 226,100 102,450 89,100
			1,450,580 1,527,981 102,450 89,100
Directors of the subsidiaries:
Executive Directors
Salaries and other emoluments		 158,101 161,854 – –
Social security contributions		 8,122 8,095 – –
			 166,223 169,949 – –
			1,616,803 1,697,930 102,450 89,100
d) Finance costs comprise of:
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Bank overdrafts 				 116,140 78,930
Bankers’ acceptance 				 957,570 836,536
Lease liabilities 				 46,350 26,149
Revolving credit 				 82,064 145,413
Term loans 				 504,725 529,864
					1,706,849 1,616,892
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
118
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
10. TAX (BENEFIT)/EXPENSE
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Current income tax:
- Malaysian tax				 – –
- Foreign tax				 – 985,538
Under provision in prior year:
- Malaysian tax				 – 14,345
					
– 999,883
Deferred tax (Note 25):
Reversal of temporary differences				 (13,600) (14,703)
Tax (benefit)/expense for the financial year			 (13,600) 985,180
Reconciliation of tax expense of the Company is as follows:-		
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Loss before tax from
  continuing operations 		 (4,180,860) (43,413,945) (419,244) (31,127,458)
Tax at the Malaysian
  statutory income tax rate
  of 24% (2023: 24%)		 (1,003,406) (10,419,300) (100,619) (7,470,600)
Effect of different tax rate
  in other country		 13,990 (11,737) – –
Income not subject to tax		 – (95,929) – –
Expenses not deductible
 
for tax purposes		1,282,012 1,677,541 100,619 7,470,600
Potential deferred tax
  not recognised		 (306,196) 9,820,260 – –
Under provision in respect
  of prior years:
  - income tax		 – 14,345 – –
Tax expense for the financial year		 (13,600) 985,180 – –
Annual Report 2024
119
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
10. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
Income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) of the estimated assessable
results for the financial year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the
respective jurisdictions.
	The Group has the following estimates unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available
for set-off against future taxable profits:-
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 34,751,997 34,885,063
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 26,663,184 23,635,427
					61,415,181 58,520,490
	The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed
capital allowances carried forward.
	Pursuant to Section 44(5F) of the Income Tax Act 1967, the unutilised tax losses for year of assessment
2019 and prior will expire in the year of assessment 2029, and unutilised tax losses arising from the year
assessment 2019 onwards will expire in 10 years from the year assessment the losses arose.
Expired date of the Company’s unutilised tax losses is summarized below:
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Year of assessment 2029				 3,521,564 6,646,269
Year of assessment 2030				 7,965,408 7,965,408
Year of assessment 2031				 8,247,162 8,247,162
Year of assessment 2032				 615,515 615,515
Year of assessment 2033				 1,835,653 11,307,823
Year of assessment 2034				 9,575,056 102,886
Year of assessment 2035				 2,991,639 –
					34,751,997 34,885,063
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
120
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
11. LOSS PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic loss per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the loss after tax attributable
to Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the
financial year.
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Basic loss per share:				
Loss after tax attributable to Owners of the Company 		 (4,167,260) (44,399,125)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:		
Number of ordinary shares at beginning
  of the financial year (unit)				 657,670,581 493,252,936
Effect of rights issue with warrants				 – 137,390,087
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
  at end of the financial year				657,670,581 630,643,023
Basic loss per share (sen)				 (0.63) (7.04)
(b) Diluted
Diluted loss per share is not presented as the Warrants 2022/2027 were anti-dilutive in nature during
the financial year, considering the average market price of the ordinary share was lower than the
exercise price of the unexpired warrants as disclosed in Note 23 (b).
Annual Report 2024
121
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
				 Plant, Furniture,
				machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		 Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2024
Cost
At 1 July 2023 16,300,386 40,856,604 57,178,098 8,586,146 3,674,999 – 126,596,233
Additions – – 2,564,042 135,301 142,800 181,798 3,023,941
Disposals – – (27,397,864) (360) (665,464) – (28,063,688)
Reclassification to assets held
  for sale (Note 21) – (22,035,523) (150,948) – – – (22,186,471)
Exchange difference (502,693) (207,662) (308,475) (75,259) (103,855) (6,147) (1,204,091)
At 30 June 2024 15,797,693 18,613,419 31,884,853 8,645,828 3,048,480 175,651 78,165,924
Less: Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2023 – 10,541,393 34,273,403 5,665,279 3,087,536 – 53,567,611
Charge for the financial year – 603,806 906,032 14,770 113,317 – 1,637,925
Disposals – – (18,903,003) – (590,138) – (19,493,141)
Reclassification to assets held
  for sale (Note 21) – (7,572,166) – – – – (7,572,166)
Exchange difference – (86,719) (166,014) (68,473) (98,276) – (419,482)
At 30 June 2024 – 3,486,314 16,110,418 5,611,576 2,512,439 – 27,720,747
Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss							
At 1 July 2023 939,743 1,767,125 15,090,876 2,891,537 100,018 – 20,789,299
Disposal – – (8,494,861) – (16,872) – (8,511,733)
At 30 June 2024 939,743 1,767,125 6,596,015 2,891,537 83,146 – 12,277,566
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2024 14,857,950 13,359,980 9,178,420 142,715 452,895 175,651 38,167,611
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
122
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
				 Plant, Furniture,			
				machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		 Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
2023
Cost
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously 15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066 6,027,809 1,496,466 1,430,397 126,903,009
Reclassification 271,194 (335,949) (1,095,685) 2,389,180 2,021,793 – 3,250,533
At 1 July 2022, as restated 15,972,540 46,317,976 54,497,381 8,416,989 3,518,259 1,430,397 130,153,542
Additions – 654,984 823,926 120,036 – 74,800 1,673,746
Reclassification within property,
  plant and equipment – – 1,487,197 18,000 – (1,505,197) –
Reclassification from right-of-use
  assets (Note 13) – – – – 99,296 – 99,296
Reclassification to investment
  properties (Note 14) – (6,249,366) – – – – (6,249,366)
Exchange differences 327,846 133,010 369,594 31,121 57,444 – 919,015
At 30 June 2023 16,300,386 40,856,604 57,178,098 8,586,146 3,674,999 – 126,596,233
Annual Report 2024
123
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
				 Plant, Furniture,			
				machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		 Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
2023 (Cont’d)
Less: Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905 793,140 – 46,369,747
Reclassification – 429,503 (590,282) 1,434,715 1,976,597 – 3,250,533
At 1 July 2022, as restated – 10,415,918 31,198,005 5,236,620 2,769,737 – 49,620,280
Charge for the financial year – 701,422 2,822,844 399,011 202,933 – 4,126,210
Reclassification from right-of-use
  assets (Note 13) – – – – 63,369 – 63,369
Reclassification to investment
  properties (Note 14) – (631,435) – – – – (631,435)
Exchange differences – 55,488 252,554 29,648 51,497 – 389,187
At 30 June 2023 – 10,541,393 34,273,403 5,665,279 3,087,536 – 53,567,611
							
Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss							
At 1 July 2022 – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
Charge for the financial year 939,743 1,767,125 15,090,876 2,735,454 100,018 – 20,633,216
At 30 June 2023 939,743 1,767,125 15,090,876 2,891,537 100,018 – 20,789,299
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2023 15,360,643 28,548,086 7,813,819 29,330 487,445 – 52,239,323
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
124
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
a) Assets pledged as security
As at 30 June 2024, certain land and buildings with net carrying amount of RM28,217,930 (2023:
RM29,150,201) are held as security with the banks for certain banking facilities granted to the Group
as disclosed in Note 24.
b) Land in Indonesia
	Land in Indonesia which is regulated under Hak Guna Bangunan (“HGB”) can be renewed indefinitely
with minimal cost if certain conditions are met.The Group assessed the conditions and concluded
that the possibility of nonrenewal of the usage rights of the land is remote.Hence,the Group exercised
significant judgement and concluded that the land is in substance a purchase of rights which meets
the definition of property, plant and equipment regardless of whether the legal title transfers.
c) Transfer to investment properties
In prior year, the Company transferred two buildings at net carrying amount of RM5,617,931, which
are held either to earn rental income or capital appreciation or for both to investment properties as
disclosed in Note 14.
d) Impairment loss
	The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each
reporting date to assess whether there is any indication of impairment.When an indication exists,the
Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.The recoverable amount of the property,
plant and equipment was derived based on fair value less cost to sell as well as VIU method using
cash flows projection derived from the most recent financial forecast and projections covering a
period of 5 years.
	The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(i) Budgeted gross margin
	The budgeted average gross margin is 15% to 21% (2023: 22%). Gross margins are based on
average values achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period. Gross
margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.
(ii) Weighted average growth rate
	The weighted average growth rate for business operations is 7% (2023: 6%). Revenue growth is
based on growth achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
(iii) Discount rate
A post-tax discount rate of 9% to 12% (2023: 9.5%) was applied to the calculations in determining
the recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of
capital of the CGU as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.
Annual Report 2024
125
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
d) Impairment loss (Cont’d)
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have
been considered in determining the recoverable amount of the CGU.Based on the sensitivity analysis
performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key
assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying
amount.
e) Assets held for sale
	The leasehold land (as disclosed in Note 13) and building (as disclosed in Note 12) have been
reclassified to asset held for sale as disclosed in Note 21.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
126
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
		 Leasehold Hostel Factory Motor
		 land rental rental vehicles Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2024
Cost
At 1 July 2023			 7,048,346 187,871 544,982 716,963 8,498,162
Reclassification to assets held for sale (Note 21)		 (7,016,216) – – – (7,016,216)
Reclassification			 (32,130) 32,130 – – –
Disposal			 – (220,001) (544,982) – (764,983)
Exchange difference			 – – – (53,023) (53,023)
At 30 June 2024			 – – – 663,940 663,940
Less: Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2023			 2,321,603 140,903 335,372 123,812 2,921,690
Charge for the financial year			 98,474 12,735 – 107,419 218,628
Reclassification to assets held for sale (Note 21)		 (2,420,077) – – – (2,420,077)
Disposal			 – (153,638) (335,372) – (489,010)
Exchange difference			 – – – 17,564 17,564
At 30 June 2024			 – – – 248,795 248,795
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2024			 – – – 415,145 415,145
Annual Report 2024
127
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (Cont’d)
		 Leasehold Hostel Factory Motor
		 land rental rental vehicles Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023							
Cost 						
At 1 July 2022			 7,048,346 270,546 544,982 384,361 8,248,235
Additions [Note (a)]			 – – – 398,425 398,425
Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 12)* – – – (99,296) (99,296)
Expiry of lease contract			 – (82,675) – – (82,675)
Exchange differences			 – – – 33,473 33,473
At 30 June 2023			 7,048,346 187,871 544,982 716,963 8,498,162
Less: Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2022			 2,200,403 78,280 251,529 113,181 2,643,393
Charge for the financial year			 121,200 145,298 83,843 68,047 418,388
Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 12)* – – – (63,369) (63,369)
Expiry of lease contract			 – (82,675) – – (82,675)
Exchange differences			 – – – 5,953 5,953
At 30 June 2023			 2,321,603 140,903 335,372 123,812 2,921,690
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2023			 4,726,743 46,968 209,610 593,151 5,576,472
* Reclassification as a result of the full settlement of lease
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
128
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)
(a) Acquisition of right of use assets are satisfied by the following:-
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Cash payments				
– 89,896
Lease arrangement				
– 308,529
					
– 398,425
(b)	The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as
follow:-
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Depreciation of right-of-use assets			 218,628 418,388
Interest expense on lease liabilities			 46,350 26,149
Lease of low value assets				 170,477 210,277
Gain on lease termination				 (9,175) –
Loss on lease termination				 31,107 –
Short-term leases				867,761 774,599
Waiver of lease liabilities				 – (7,500)
14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Buildings
Cost 		
At 1 July				 6,249,366 –
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 12)		 – 6,249,366
At 30 June				 6,249,366 6,249,366
Less: Accumulated Depreciation			
At 1 July				 743,794 –
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 12)		 – 631,435
Charge for the financial year				 110,111 112,359
At 30 June				 853,905 743,794
Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss			
At 1 July				 – –
Addition 				
201,036 –
At 30 June				 201,036 –
Net Carrying Amount			
At 30 June				 5,194,425 5,505,572
Annual Report 2024
129
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (cont’d)
(a)	The fair value of the investment properties are as below:
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At fair value:			
Buildings				5,700,000 5,700,000
	The fair value is determined by the Directors based on market values for similar properties in the same
vicinity.The fair value of the investment properties is within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
(b)	The entire investment properties of the Group have been pledged as security to secure term loan
facilities of the Group as disclosed in Note 24.
(c) (Income)/expenses derived from the above investment properties are as below:
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Lease income				
(166,400) (290,400)
Direct operating expenses:			
- Quit rent and assessment				 4,988 7,186
- Insurance				16,977 12,921
- Term loans interest expense				 61,244 97,270
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
		
Company
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Unquoted Shares, Cost			
At beginning of the financial year				 42,233,607 42,501,620
Written off				 – (268,013)
At end of the financial year				 42,233,607 42,233,607
Capital Contribution To Subsidiaries			
At beginning of the financial year				 79,100,166 51,221,633
Addition 				 – 27,878,533
At end of the financial year				 79,100,166 79,100,166
Accumulated Impairment Loss			
At beginning of the financial year				 39,320,071 8,842,612
Addition				 – 30,745,462
Written off				 – (268,003)
At end of the financial year				 39,320,071 39,320,071
Net Carrying Amount				82,013,702 82,013,702
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
130
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents advances to subsidiaries which are non-trade in nature,
unsecured and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to occur in
the foreseeable future.
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Effective
equity interest
Principal activities
2024
%
2023
%
Rex Canning Co.
  Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and export
of canned food, beverages
and premix products
Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of canned food,
beverages and premix products
Fika Foods Corporation
  Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Summit Teamtrade
  (2011) Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
P
.T. Rex Canning * # Indonesia 100 100 Manufacture and export
of canned food
Cinta Edar (M)
  Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Best Aqua Food
  Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Gainasia International
 Limited * ^
British Virgin
Islands
100 100 Dormant
* Not audited by Raki CS Tan & Ramanan
# Fika Foods Corporation Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P
.T. Rex Canning.
^ The financial statements have been reviewed for consolidation purposes by Raki CS Tan & Ramanan
Annual Report 2024
131
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries
	The Company has carried out a review of the recoverable amounts of its investment in subsidiaries which
have been determined based on discounted cash flows projections from financial budgets covering a
period of 5 years.
In determining the discounted cash flows projections, the key assumptions used are as follows:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
	The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 15% to 21% depending on the CGU.Gross margins are
based on average values achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period and
are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.
(b) Annual revenue growth rate
	The annual revenue growth rate for business operations is 7%. Revenue growth is based on growth
achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
(c) Discount rate
A post-tax discount rate of 9% to 12% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU.The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of capital.
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have
been considered in determining the recoverable amount of the CGU.Based on the sensitivity analysis
performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key
assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying
amount.
16. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Cost
At beginning/end of the financial year				 11,378,743 11,378,743
			
Accumulated Impairment Loss			
At beginning/end of the financial year			 (4,341,263) (4,341,263)
Net Carrying Amount				7,037,480 7,037,480
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
132
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
16. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)
Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Indonesia manufacturing plant				 7,037,480 7,037,480
For the purpose of annual impairment testing,goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents
the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on value in use generated from
the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget for 2025 and projected revenue
growth covering a period of 5 years.
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
	The budgeted average gross margin is 15% (2023: 15%).Gross margins are based on average values
achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to
be maintained over the budgeted period.
(b) Weighted average growth rate
	The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 7% (2023:5%).Revenue growth is projected
based on growth achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
(c) Discount rate
A post-tax discount rate of 12% (2023: 9.3%) was applied to the calculations in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU.The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of
the CGU as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.
(d)	Terminal growth rate
A terminal growth rate of Nil (2023: 2.5%) was then applied.
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty,any reasonably
possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in
determining the recoverable amount of the CGU.Based on the sensitivity analysis performed,management
concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the
recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying amount.
Annual Report 2024
133
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
17. INVENTORIES
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Cost:			
Raw materials				18,375,218 23,808,075
Finished goods				25,853,901 28,434,147
Packaging materials				7,377,724 9,732,651
Spare parts and diesel				 1,524,936 1,587,866
					53,131,779 63,562,739
Less: Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories		
At beginning of the financial year				 (5,517,157) (906,154)
Addition				 – (5,446,445)
Reversal				 – 6,493
Written off				 2,064,848 828,949
At end of the financial year				 (3,452,309) (5,517,157)
Net Carrying Amount				49,679,470 58,045,582
			
Inventories recognised in cost of sales				 97,609,913 110,391,546
18. TRADE RECEIVABLES
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Trade receivables, gross				 24,268,371 30,149,732
			
Less: Allowance for impairment loss			
At beginning of the financial year				 (1,480,006) (2,659,837)
Additions				
– (548,859)
Reversal				
– 186,244
Written off				
– 1,542,446
At end of the financial year				 (1,480,006) (1,480,006)
Trade Receivables, Net				 22,788,365 28,669,726
	The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2023: 30 to 90 days).
Other credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.
	Trade receivables amounting to RM7,235,382 (2023: RM9,470,097) is held as security for bankers’
acceptance facilities as disclosed in Note 24.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
134
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
19. OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Sundry receivables, gross		 491,847 490,277 – –
Less: Allowance for
	  impairment loss
At beginning of
	  the financial year		 (409,197) (1,467,395) – –
Additions		 – (325,799) – –
Reversal		 – 213,599 – –
Written off		 – 1,170,398 – –
At end of the
	  financial year		 (409,197) (409,197) – –
Sundry receivables, net		 82,650 81,080 – –
Deposits, gross (i) 800,268 2,802,196 – –
Less: Allowance for
	  impairment loss
At beginning of
	  the financial year		 (2,267,000) – – –
Additions		 – (2,267,000) – –
Written off		
2,267,000 – – –
At end of the
	  financial year		 – (2,267,000) – –
Deposits, net		 800,268 535,196 – –
Prepayments, gross (ii) 2,243,939 2,458,115 23,884 30,331
Less: Allowance for
impairment loss
At beginning of
the financial year		 (195,210) – – –
Additions		 – (195,210) – –
At end of the
financial year		 (195,210) (195,210) – –
Prepayment, net		2,048,729 2,262,905 23,884 30,331
Other Receivables, Net		2,931,647 2,879,181 23,884 30,331
(i) Included in deposits, net of the Group are:
(a) Deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to Nil (2023: RM368,000); and
(b)	Non-interest bearing deposits placed with a bank for bank guarantee facilities granted to the
Group amounting to RM48,000 (2023: RM48,000).
(ii) Included in prepayments,net of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM1,165,015
(2023: RM955,103).
Annual Report 2024
135
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
20. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANK
	The effective interest rates of the fixed deposits of the Group ranging from 2.60% to 3.84% (2023: 2.80% to
3.84%) per annum with maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2023: 3 to 6 months).
21. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
	On 10 November 2023, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a sales and purchase agreement to
dispose two lots of property.The transaction was completed on 30 September 2024 as disclosed in Note 36.
At 30 June 2024, these assets were classified as assets held for sales as follows:
					
NOTE 2024
						
RM
Assets classified as held for sale 			
Property, plant and equipment				 12 14,614,305
Right-of-use assets				
13 4,596,139
Expenses capitalised with regards to assets held for sale			 355,407
						
19,565,851
	The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets of the disposal assets is the
same as its carrying value before it was being reclassified to asset held for sales.
 
22. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
Number of shares Amount
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		
Unit Unit RM RM
Ordinary Shares
Issued And Fully Paid
At beginning of the financial year		 657,670,581 493,252,936 113,716,680 97,903,444
Rights issue with warrants		 – 164,417,645 – 15,813,236
At end of the financial year		 657,670,581 657,670,581 113,716,680 113,716,680
	The proceeds from the Rights Issue in the previous year were for business expansion and working capital
purposes.The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
Company.All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to
the Company’s residual interests.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
136
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
23. RESERVES
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Non-distributable:
Translation reserve (a) (4,779,413) (1,568,467) – –
Warrants reserve (b) 2,092,584 2,092,584 2,092,584 2,092,584
Other reserve (c) (2,092,584) (2,092,584) (2,092,584) (2,092,584)
			 (4,779,413) (1,568,467) – –
(a) Translation reserve
	The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of foreign subsidiaries.
(b) Warrants reserve
Warrants 2022/2027
In prior year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”) pursuant
to the Rights Issue with Warrants on the basis of one Rights Warrant for every three Rights Shares
subscribed,and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for the Warrants on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.The fair value of the Warrant was
determined based on the fair value of warrants immediately upon the listing and quotation thereof
as RM0.07 per warrant.The Rights Warrants are constituted by the Deed Poll dated 29 August 2022.
The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows:
(i) Issue price
The Warrants will be issued at no cost to the Entitled Shareholders.
(ii)	Exercise price
	Each Warrant entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe
for one new ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.15 per Warrant.
(iii)	Exercise period
Five (5) years commencing on and including the date of issuance of the Warrants.Any Warrants
not exercised during the exercise period will thereafter lapse and cease to be valid.
(iv) Rights of Warrant holders
	The holder of Warrants shall not be entitled to any voting rights or to participate in any dividends,
rights, allotments and/or other forms of distributions other than on winding-up, compromise or
arrangement of our Company and/or offer of further securities in the Company until and unless
such holders of the Warrants become a shareholder of the Company by exercising their Warrants
into new Ordinary Shares of the Company or unless otherwise resolved by the Company in a
general meeting.
Annual Report 2024
137
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
23. RESERVES (cONT’D)
(b) Warrants reserve (Cont’d)
Warrants 2022/2027 (Cont’d)
The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows: (Cont’d)
(v) Ranking of new ordinary shares
	The new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants will,upon allotment
and issuance, rank equally in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company
except that such new ordinary shares will not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments
and/or any other forms of distribution where the entitlement date precedes the relevant date of
allotment and issuance of the new ordinary shares.
(vi) Adjustment in the exercise price and/or number of Warrants
	The exercise price and/or the number of Warrants held by each Warrant holder may from time
to time be adjusted by the Directors in consultation with an approved adviser and certified by
the auditors at any time during the tenure of the Warrants.
As at 30 June 2024, total number of Warrants that remains unexercised were 54,805,755.
(c) Other reserve
	Other reserve represents the discount on issuance of shares and the value of which is represented by
the fair value of warrants.The other reserve, in substance, form part of the issued and paid-up share
capital and is presented separately for better understanding.
24. BORROWINGS
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Non-current			
Term loans (secured)				 6,388,966 8,178,974
Current		
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				 1,759,429 2,072,180
Bankers’ acceptance (unsecured)				 7,950,394 7,870,112
Bankers’ acceptance (secured)				 7,235,382 9,470,097
Revolving credit (unsecured)				 – 3,000,000
Term loans (secured)				 1,514,468 1,174,228
					18,459,673 23,586,617
					24,848,639 31,765,591
			
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
138
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
24. BORROWINGS (Cont’d)
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Represented By:			
Term loans				7,903,434 9,353,202
Bank overdrafts 				 1,759,429 2,072,180
Bankers’ acceptance 				 15,185,776 17,340,209
Revolving credit 				 – 3,000,000
					24,848,639 31,765,591
Maturity Profile of Borrowings:			
On demand or within 1 year				 18,459,673 23,586,617
More than 1 year and less than 5 years			 4,543,403 2,932,440
More than 5 years				 1,845,563 5,246,534
					24,848,639 31,765,591
Term loan 1(¹)				
686,494 1,260,781
Term loan 2(¹)				 – 423,938
Term loan 3(2)				7,216,940 7,668,483
					7,903,434 9,353,202
Maturity Profile of Term Loans:			
Within one year				 1,514,468 1,174,228
More than 1 year and less than 2 years 		 1,514,468 1,239,151
More than 2 years and less than 5 years 		 3,028,935 1,693,289
More than 5 years 			 1,845,563 5,246,534
					 7,903,434 9,353,202
			
(¹) Conventional term loan			
(2) Islamic term loan			
Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:
					
2024 2023
					% %
Bank overdrafts				 BLR* + 1.5 BLR* + 1.5
Bankers’ acceptance				 3.49 to 6.50 3.41 to 6.50
Revolving credit				
– 4.85
Term loans:			
- Conventional				 BLR* - 1.5 BLR* - 1.5
- Islamic				 BFR# - 1.25 BFR# - 1.25
* BLR – Base Lending Rate
# BFR – Base Financing Rate
Annual Report 2024
139
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
24. BORROWINGS (Cont’d)
Bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-
(i) land and buildings of the Group as disclosed in Notes 12 and 14;
(ii) corporate guarantee of the Company; and
(iii) proceeds from certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 18.
 
25. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 1,477,185 1,491,888
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 10)				 (13,600) (14,703)
At end of the financial year				 1,463,585 1,477,185
Presented before appropriate offsetting:			
- Deferred tax assets				 (1,625,701) (864,200)
- Deferred tax liabilities				 3,089,286 2,341,385
					1,463,585 1,477,185
This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Deferred Tax Liabilities:			
Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment			 3,089,286 2,341,385
					3,089,286 2,341,385
Deferred Tax Assets:			
Excess of tax base between the net carrying amount of			
  property, plant and equipment				 (895,134) (118,800)
Unabsorbed capital allowance				 (730,567) –
Other deductible temporary differences*			 – (745,400)
					
(1,625,701) (864,200)
					1,463,585 1,477,185
* Comprised of allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and impairment loss on trade
receivables.
 
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
140
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
25. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
	The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the financial
statements are as follows stated at gross:-
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 34,751,997 34,885,063
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 26,663,184 23,635,427
Other deductible temporary differences			 4,326,792 8,497,300
					65,741,973 67,017,790
26. LEASE LIABILITIES
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At 1 July 				 704,281 663,147
Addition				
– 308,529
Disposal				
(254,041) (7,500)
Interest 				46,350 26,149
Repayment 				
(147,522) (306,210)
Exchange difference				(29,359) 20,166
At 30 June				 319,709 704,281
						
Motor
						
Vehicles
						
RM
Group (Cont’d)
2024
Minimum Leases Payables
Within 1 year					
129,973
More than 1 year but less than 2 years					 129,973
More than 2 years but less than 5 years				 145,419
						
405,365
Less: Future finance lease charges					 (85,656)
Present Value of Lease Payables					
319,709
Annual Report 2024
141
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
26. LEASE LIABILITIES
						
Motor
						
Vehicles
						
RM
Group (Cont’d)
2024
Present Value of Lease Payables				
Within 1 year					
91,690
More than 1 year but less than 2 years					 98,970
More than 2 years but less than 5 years				 129,049
					
Present Value of Lease Payables					
319,709
Analysed As:					
Current portion					
91,690
Non-current portion					
228,019
						
319,709
			 Hostel Factory Motor
			Rental Rental Vehicles Total
			RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
2023
Minimum Leases Payables
Within 1 year 48,600 90,000 140,353 278,953
More than 1 year but less than 2 years – 90,000 140,353 230,353
More than 2 years but less than 5 years – 45,000 297,386 342,386
		 48,600 225,000 578,092 851,692
Less: Future finance lease charges (448) (6,215) (140,748) (147,411)
Present Value of Lease Payables 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
Present Value of Lease Payables
Within 1 year 48,152 86,088 92,102 226,342
More than 1 year but less than 2 years – 87,982 99,012 186,994
More than 2 years but less than 5 years – 44,715 246,230 290,945
Present Value of Lease Payables 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
Analysed As:
Current portion 48,152 86,088 92,102 226,342
Non-current portion – 132,697 345,242 477,939
			 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
142
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
27. TRADE PAYABLES
	The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2023:
30 to 90 days).
28. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM RM RM RM
Other payables (i) 2,906,305 3,551,446 46,294 54,081
Accruals		 4,906,686 5,836,451 88,660 73,502
Deposit (ii) 3,052,000 – – –
Provision for dismantling		 			
  and relocation cost (iii) – 360,000 – –
Provision for employee
  termination benefits (iv) – 900,000 – –
Retirement benefits (v) 884,999 1,771,797 – –
Amounts due to Directors (vi) 2,500,393 4,295,838 30,000 –
Amounts due to
  related parties (vi) 267,158 893,665 – –
			14,517,541 17,609,197 164,954 127,583
(i)	Other payables
Included in sundry payables of the Group is security deposits received from customers of RM100,000
(2023: RM150,000).
(ii) Deposit
Included in deposit of the Group is deposit received for disposal of property as per Note 36.
(iii)	Provision for dismantling and relocation cost
In prior year, the Group recognised a provision of RM360,000 for dismantling and relocation and are
based on management’s estimation.
Movement in provision for dismantling and relocation cost is as below:
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 360,000 –
Additions				
– 360,000
Payment during the financial year			 (360,000) –
At end of the financial year				 – 360,000
Annual Report 2024
143
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
28. OTHER PAYABLES (Cont’d)
(iv)	Provision for employee termination benefits
In prior year, the Group recognised a provision of RM900,000 for employee termination benefits and
are based on a detailed plan agreed between the management and employees.The amount has
been paid in the current financial year end in July 2023 and August 2023.
Movement of provision for employee termination benefits is as below:
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 900,000 306,210
Additions				
– 900,000
Reversal				
(110,614) –
Payment during the financial year			 (789,386) (306,210)
At end of the financial year				 – 900,000
(v) Retirement benefits
A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit
plans that provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for
employees.
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations			
At beginning of the financial year				 1,771,797 2,720,305
Current service cost and interest				 174,708 283,153
Past service cost				 – (566,335)
Other cost				
– (84,366)
Benefit payment				
(780,119) (335,128)
Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income (176,804) (335,128)
Exchange differences				
(104,583) 89,296
At end of the financial year				 884,999 1,771,797
Income recognised in profit or loss
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Current service cost and interest				 174,708 283,153
Past service cost				 – (566,335)
Other cost				
– (84,366)
Actuarial gain				
(176,804) (335,128)
					
(2,096) (702,676)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
144
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
28. OTHER PAYABLES (Cont’d)
(v) Retirement benefits (Cont’d)
Income recognised in profit or loss (Cont’d)
	The income is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive income:-
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Staff cost				
(2,096) (702,676)
Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income
		Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
At beginning of the year				 1,041,928 706,800
Recognised during the year 			 176,804 335,128
At end of the year 			 1,218,732 1,041,928
Actuarial assumptions
		
Group
				2024 2023
					
% %
Discount rate				7.02 6.79
Salary increment rate				 2.00 7.00
Disability rate				0.10 5.00
Resignation rate			 25% up to the 15% up to the
				 age of 30 and age of 30 and
				 decrease decrease
				 linearly to 0% linearly to 0%
				 at retirement at retirement
				 age age
			
(vi)	These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advance which is repayable on demand.
Annual Report 2024
145
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
29. REBATE LIABILITY
Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against
amounts payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.
30. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURE
(a) Control Relationship
	Parties are considered to be related to the Group and to the Company if the Group and the Company
have the ability,directly or indirectly,to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party
in making financial and operating decision,or vice versa,or where the Group and the Company and
the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be
individuals or other entities.
	The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties
and key management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the
Company have substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.
(b) Details of Significant Related Parties Balances:
Significant related company balances are disclosed in Note 15 and 28 to the financial statements.
(c) Details of Significant Related Parties Transactions:
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Company
Transactions with subsidiaries:
Advances from				132,400 132,400
Repayment to				
(303,849) (15,712,319)
Group
Transactions with related parties:
Short-term lease of office				 102,000 93,600
Purchase of goods				 – 41,867
Rental income				
(36,000) (36,000)
Security charges				
20,939 –
Transportation charges				4,187,767 5,150,087
Travelling expenses				44,274 59,840
Upkeep of motor vehicles				 97,487 76,773
Water charges				598 312
Warehouse management				240,000 272,000
	The Directors are of the view that the above transactions have been entered into the normal course
of business under terms and conditions no less favourable to the Company than those arranged with
independent third parties.
 
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
146
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
30. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONT’D)
(d) Compensation of Key Management Personnel
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly
or indirectly. The key management personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its
subsidiaries, as well as certain senior management personnel of the Group and of the Company.
	The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to the Directors during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 9(c).
	The remuneration of other members of key management personnel of the Group during the financial
year are as follows:
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Key management personnel:
Salaries and other emoluments				 2,052,653 1,075,102
Contributions to defined contribution plan			 88,366 43,056
Social security contributions				 39,003 23,604
					2,180,022 1,141,762
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Authorised and contracted for:			
Acquisition of machineries				 136,880 368,000
Annual Report 2024
147
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
32. OPERATING SEGMENTS
	The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and
distribution of canned food, beverages and premix products. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief
Operating Decision Maker) reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly
basis.Accordingly, information by operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is
not presented.
Geographical area
Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets
respectively are as follows:
Group Group
External revenue Non-current assets*
		2024 2023 2024 2023
		RM RM RM RM
Malaysia		56,790,968 65,943,221 35,710,955 54,253,834
USA			51,733,350 70,370,989 – –
Europe		15,101,220 19,730,196 – –
Asia (excluding Malaysia)		 6,896,748 6,363,684 15,103,706 16,105,013
			130,522,286 162,408,090 50,814,661 70,358,847
*	Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax
assets.
Major customer information
	The Group has three (2023: three) customers who contributed RM8,880,059 (2023: RM6,196,688),
representing 7% (2023: 4%) of the Group’s revenue during the financial year.
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES
	The Group’s financial risk management policies seek to ensure that adequate financial resources are
available for the development of the Group’s businesses whilst managing its risks. The Group operates
within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board of Directors and the Group’s policy is not
to engage in speculative transactions.
	The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the objectives and policies in respect of each of
these are as follows:
(a) Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the
individual characteristics of each customer.The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
from loans and advances to subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior
years.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
148
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (Cont’d)
	The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the objectives and policies in respect of each of
these are as follows: (Cont’d)
(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(i) Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis.Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations
to business partners with good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers
requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit
impaired.
	The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or
full) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.This is generally the case when the Group
determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate
sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to write-off.
Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented
by the carrying amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.
Credit risk concentration profile
	The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on
an ongoing basis.
	The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 3
customers (2023: 3 customers) constituting 39% (2023: 18%) of gross trade receivables of the
Group.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Inmanagingcreditriskoftradereceivables,theGroupmanagesitsdebtorsandtakesappropriate
actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to
ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable
values.
	The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at
lifetime expected credit losses as disclosed in Note 6(n). The Group assesses impairment of
trade receivables on individual and collective basis.
Annual Report 2024
149
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(i) Trade receivables and other receivables (Cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)
For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can
be individually managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has
reasonable and supportable information available to assess the impairment individually.
For collective assessment,the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision
matrix for collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit
risk characteristics, the number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have
similar risk characteristics.
	Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit
loss experienced over the prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information
on macroeconomic factors. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic
conditions during the period over which the historical data has been collected, (b) current
economic conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the expected lives
of the receivables.
Impairment losses
	The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023:
				 Gross
				 carrying Loss
				 amount allowances Net balance
				RM RM RM
Group
2024				
Not past due			 18,787,992 – 18,787,992
Past due:					
- Less than 30 days			 3,243,012 (108,975) 3,134,037
- 31 to 90 days			 498,014 (16,765) 481,249
Credit impaired:					
- More than 90 days			 399,058 (13,971) 385,087
				 4,140,084 (139,711) 4,000,373
Credit impaired:					
- Individually impaired			 1,340,295 (1,340,295) –
				 24,268,371 (1,480,006) 22,788,365
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
150
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(i) Trade receivables and other receivables (Cont’d)
Impairment losses (Cont’d)
	The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023: (Cont’d)
				 Gross
				 carrying Loss
				 amount allowances Net balance
				RM RM RM
Group
2023				
Not past due			 25,159,340 (79,675) 25,079,665
Past due:					
- Less than 30 days			 2,195,232 (73,835) 2,121,397
- 31 to 90 days			 906,630 (228,533) 678,097
Credit impaired:					
- More than 90 days			 968,942 (178,375) 790,567
				 4,070,804 (480,743) 3,590,061
Credit impaired:					
- Individually impaired			 919,588 (919,588) –
				 30,149,732 (1,480,006) 28,669,726
(1) Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
	Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with
good payment records and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with
the Group.
(2) Receivables that are past due but not impaired
	The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as
there have been no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still
considered recoverable. These trade receivables relate mostly to customers with slower
repayment patterns, for whom there is no history of default.The Group does not hold any
collateral or other credit enhancement over these balances.
(3) Receivables that are impaired
Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days,which are deemed to
have higher credit risk, are monitored individually.
	Trade receivables that are collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date
relate to debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These
receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit enhancements.
Annual Report 2024
151
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(ii) Intercompany loans and advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
	The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company
monitors the abilities of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from
subsidiaries are represented by their carrying amounts in the notes to the financial statements.
Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other
credit enhancements.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on
demand,expected credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan
is demanded at the reporting date.
Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk.
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
financial positions deteriorate significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of
payments of subsidiaries’loans and advances when they are payable,the Company considers
the subsidiaries’loans or advances to be credit impaired when subsidiaries are unlikely to repay
the loan or advances to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid resources when the
loans are demanded.
	The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually
using internal information available.
As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit
risk given the subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to
high probability of default for the loans and advances to subsidiaries.
(iii) Other receivables
	Expected credit loss of other receivables is determined individually after considering the financial
strength of the other receivables.As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure
to credit risks is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
The Group has provided allowances for expected credit losses on certain of these amounts as
disclosed in Note 19.
Credit risk on sundry deposits mainly arose from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities
deposit for rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services
and thus have low credit risks.As at end of the reporting period, no allowance for impairment is
necessary in respect of these deposits.
	The Group determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk on certain prepayment
paid to supplier as a partial advance payment to purchase machineries and packaging
materials. Given the Group’s restructuring plan done in prior year, may lead to high probability
of default for remaining payment to supplier.As a result, the Group has provided allowances for
impairment in respect of these prepayment as disclosed in Note 19.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
152
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(iv) Cash and cash equivalents
	The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions.As at the reporting
date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
statements of financial position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks.
Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.
(v) Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
	The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to
subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and
repayments made by the subsidiaries.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
	The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM19,943,693 (2023:
RM25,727,633) representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end
of the reporting period. The financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the
subsidiaries’ banking facilities.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
	The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
financial positions deteriorate significantly.The Company considers a financial guarantee to be
credit impaired when:-
-	The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
-	The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.
	The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using
internal information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the
probability of the financial guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as
the borrowings of the subsidiaries are adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 24.
Should the subsidiaries defaulted any loan repayments, the proceeds from the realisation of
assets will be able to satisfy the outstanding debts.
(b) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
	The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of the Group entities,which is RM.The currencies giving
rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”).The Group and the Company practise prudent
liquidity risk management to minimise the mismatch of financial assets and liabilities and to maintain
sufficient credit facilities for contingent funding requirement of working capital.
	The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign
purchases as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group
entities are kept to an acceptable level.
Annual Report 2024
153
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
	The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional
currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period is
as follows:
					
2024 2023
					RM RM
Group
Denominated in USD			
Trade receivables				
7,729,252 12,004,492
Other receivables				
– 28,256
Cash and bank balances				 1,192,267 1,444,581
Trade payables				
(3,499,371) (6,326,498)
Other payables				
(7,183) (16,390)
Borrowings				
(7,235,387) (9,470,097)
					
(1,820,422) (2,335,656)
Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis
	The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign
currencies as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:
		Group
		
Increase/(Decrease)
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:			
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2023: 5%)			 91,021 116,783
RM/USD - Weakened by 5% (2023: 5%)			 (91,021) (116,783)
(c) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates.The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly
from interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective
interest rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed
in Notes 20, 24 and 26 respectively.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
154
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(c) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
Exposure to interest rate risk
	The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset:			
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 893,677 936,589
			
Financial liabilities:			
- Lease liabilities				 – (704,281)
- Bankers’ acceptance				 (15,185,776) (17,340,209)
- Revolving credit				 – (3,000,000)
					 (14,292,099) (20,107,901)
Floating rate instruments
Financial liabilities:			
- Bank overdrafts				 (1,759,429) (2,072,180)
- Term loans				
(7,903,434) (9,353,202)
					
(9,662,863) (11,425,382)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
	The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably
possible change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period,with all other variables held
constant:-
		
Group		
		Increase/(Decrease)
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:			
Increase of 50 basis points (2023: 50 basis points)			 (37,601) (43,416)
Decrease of 50 basis points (2023: 50 basis points)		 37,601 43,416
Annual Report 2024
155
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(d) Liquidity risk
	Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial
obligations associated with financial liabilities.The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity
risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s
and the Company’s objective are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility
through use of stand-by credit facilities.
	The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity
profile,operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing,repayment
and funding needs are met. In addition, the Group and the Company maintain sufficient levels of
cash and available banking facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet their
working capital requirements.
Maturity analysis
	The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities
as at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including
interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of
the reporting period):
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
156
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(d) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
Maturity analysis (Cont’d)
		 Contractual Cash Flows
		 On demand
		 Carrying or within			 More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2024
Group
Trade payables 14,779,836 14,779,836 – – – 14,779,836
Other payables^ 13,632,542 13,632,542 – – – 13,632,542
Bank overdrafts 1,759,429 1,759,429 – – – 1,759,429
Bankers’ acceptance 15,185,776 15,185,776 – – – 15,185,776
Term loans 7,903,434 1,514,468 895,044 2,685,132 6,265,308 11,359,952
Lease liabilities 319,709 129,973 129,973 145,419 – 405,365
		 53,580,726 47,002,024 1,025,017 2,830,551 6,265,308 57,122,900
Company
Other payables 164,954 134,954 – – – 134,954
Amounts due to subsidiaries 3,508,368 3,508,368 – – – 3,508,368
Financial guarantee* – 19,943,693 – – – 19,943,693
		 3,673,322 23,587,015 – – – 23,587,015
^	Exclude retirement benefits.
*	This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
Annual Report 2024
157
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(d) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
Maturity analysis (Cont’d)
		 Contractual Cash Flows
		 On demand
		 Carrying or within			 More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Group
Trade payables 20,010,259 20,010,259 – – – 20,010,259
Other payables^ 15,837,400 15,837,400 – – – 15,837,400
Bank overdrafts 2,072,180 2,072,180 – – – 2,072,180
Bankers’ acceptance 17,340,209 17,340,209 – – – 17,340,209
Revolving credit 3,000,000 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000
Term loans 9,353,202 1,660,716 1,660,716 2,703,667 6,409,827 12,434,926
Lease liabilities 704,281 278,953 230,353 342,386 – 851,692
		 68,317,531 60,199,717 1,891,069 3,046,053 6,409,827 71,546,666
Company
Other payables 127,583 127,583 – – – 127,583
Amounts due to subsidiaries 3,132,323 3,132,323 – – – 3,132,323
Financial guarantee* – 25,727,633 – – – 25,727,633
		 3,259,906 28,987,539 – – – 28,987,539
^	Exclude retirement benefits.
*	This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
158
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
34. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION
Financial instruments at fair value
As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any
valuation method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.
Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value
Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable
approximation of fair values
	The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
term borrowings approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
instruments and insignificant impact of discounting.
	The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be re-
priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date.
35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
	The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-
equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
	The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances and fixed deposits with
licensed banks whilst total capital is equity attributable to Owners of the Company.
	The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023, which are within the Group’s objective of capital
management are as follows:
		
Group
				2024 2023
				RM RM
Borrowings (Note 24)				 24,848,639 31,765,591
Lease liabilities (Note 26)				 319,709 704,281
					25,168,348 32,469,872
Less:			
- Cash and bank balances				 (8,338,811) (17,427,480)
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				 (893,677) (936,589)
					
(9,232,488) (18,364,069)
Total net debts				 15,935,860 14,105,803
Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company		 96,360,847 103,562,249
Debt to equity ratio				 0.17 0.14
Annual Report 2024
159
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (Cont’d)
The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities,the Group is required to comply with the following:
(i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., is required to comply with the
maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio
is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible net worth (“TNW”),of which
TNW is defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties; and
(ii) Rex Canning Co.Sdn.Bhd.is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times.For the
purpose of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total net worth
(less intangibles and pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding company.Total
bank borrowings encompass the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest free.
As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as
mentioned above.
36. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
	On 10 November 2023, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a sales and purchase agreement to
dispose two lots of property for a consideration of RM41,800,000. The transaction was completed on 30
September 2024.
	On 21 December 2023, a subsidiary of the Company has disposed an investment property for a
consideration of RM1,050,000.
37. EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD
	On 18 September 2024, a subsidiary of the Company has entered into a sales and purchase agreement
to dispose an investment property for a consideration of RM4,650,000.
38. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
The comparative figures were audited by another firm of Chartered Accountants.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
160
Location/
(Registered owner)
Description
(Lot/Title No)
Tenure
(Approx.age
of building) Land area
Date of
Acquisition/
*Revaluation
Net book
Value
30/6/2024
RM’000
Plot 125,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial Land
with factory
60 years with
35 years
remaining
(19 years)
6.005 acre *30 August 2012 12,009
Plot 126,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial land
with warehouse
60 years with
46 years
remaining
(9 years)
1.740 acre *30 August 2012 7,051
JI.Raya Beji Km 4 No.42,
Beji,Pasuruan,Jawa Timur,
Indonesia.
Industrial Land
with factory
50 years with
21 years
remaining
(25 years)
38,218
sq.meters
*30 November 2012 12,310
No.7A,Jalan TIAJ 2/1,
Taman Industri Alam Jaya,
Bandar Puncak Alam,
42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.
3 Storey
Semi-Detached
Factory
Leasehold 2,024
sq.meters
10 August 2016 4,144
22,Jalan Perniagaan
Seri Tambun,
Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Pulau Pinang.
3 Storey terrace
Shop Office
Freehold 149
sq.meters
5 August 2016 1,050
No.1A,Jalan Kampung
Sungai Suloh,
Mukim Minyak Beku,
83000 Batu Pahat,Johor
Industrial land
with Factory
cum office
Freehold 2.305
hectares
26 September 2019 15,908
List of
Properties
As at 30 June 2024
*I/We (Full Name),
bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
of (Full Address)
being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-
First Proxy “A”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
*and/or
Second Proxy “B”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
100%
or failing him/her,*THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate,speak and vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf at the
Thirtieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Bukit Kiara, 60000
Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 28 November 2024 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
(Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given, the
proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)
* Strike out whichever is inapplicable
No. Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and
the Auditors thereon.[6]
For Against
2. To approve the payment of Directors’fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting to RM204,000
to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2025 and thereafter.
(Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 29 November 2024 until
the next AGM of the Company. (Resolution 2)
4(a). To re-elect,Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad,who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 3)
4(b). To re-elect Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 4)
5(a). To re-elect Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 5)
5(b). To re-elect Mr. Tam Kok Meng, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 6)
6. To re-appoint Messrs.Raki CS Tan & Ramanan as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next
AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. (Resolution 7)
Special Business
7. Ordinary Resolution No. 1
Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and waiver of pre-emptive rights. 		
(Resolution 8)
8. Ordinary Resolution No. 2
Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature. (Resolution 9)
9. Ordinary Resolution No. 3
Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares. (Resolution 10)
Signed this day of , 2024
Signature of Member Common Seal to be affixed here if
		 Member is a corporation, if applicable
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
[Registration No. 199301027926 (282664K)]
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of Ordinary Shares held
CDS Account No.
Telephone No.
Email Address
FORM OF PROXY
✄
Notes to the Notice of the Thirtieth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
21 November 2024 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.There shall be no restriction as to the
qualification of the proxy.A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have
the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting
3.	The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5.	The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is
signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the
Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.The lodging
of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person
at the Thirtieth AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy
authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement
of the Meeting or adjournment thereof
6.	This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting.Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for
voting.
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
✄
The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan.
No.46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan Medan Setia 2,
Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: (+6) 03-2011 5142 Fax: (+6) 03-2011 6368
E-mail: rex@rex.net.my
No.46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan Medan Setia 2,
Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: (+6) 03-2011 5142 Fax: (+6) 03-2011 6368
E-mail: rex@rex.net.my
