2
Notice of Annual
General Meeting
13
Profile of Key Senior
Management
40
Statement of Directors’
Responsibility for
preparing the Financial
Statements
48
Analysis of
Shareholdings
56
Directors’
Report
67
Statements
of Comprehensive
Income
15
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
41
Statement on
Risk Management
and Internal Control
50
Thirty Largest
Shareholders
61
Statement by
Directors
68
Statements of
Financial Position
8
Corporate
Information
31
Sustainability
Statement
43
Additional
Compliance
Information
52
Analysis of
Warrant A Holdings
61
Statutory
Declaration
70
Statements of
Changes in Equity
9
Profile of
Directors
36
Audit Committee
Report
44
Management
Discussion and
Analysis
55
Corporate
Structure
62
Independent
Auditors’ Report
CONTENTS
77
Notes to the Financial
Statements
148
List of
Properties Form of Proxy
72
Statements of
Cash Flows
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
2
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad
will be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan on Monday, 27 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the
following purposes:-
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
30 June 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors
thereon.
(Please refer to the
Note No. 6)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive
Directors amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the
financial year ending 30 June 2024 and thereafter.
(Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000
from 27 November 2023 until the next AGM of the Company.
(Resolution 2)
4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
themselves for re-election:-
(a) Mr. Tai Keat Chai; and
(b) Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam;
(Resolution 3)
(Resolution 4)
5. To re-elect Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, who is due to retire in accordance
with Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
herself for re-election.
(Resolution 5)
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the
Company until the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
(Resolution 6)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following
Ordinary Resolutions:-
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
-AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“ THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution
of the Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act,
to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company from time to time
at such price and upon such terms and conditions, for such purposes and
to such person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in their absolute
discretion deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of
the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being;
THAT pursuant to Section 85 if the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of
the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive
the statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be
offered new shares of the Company ranking equally to the existing issued
shares arising from any issuance of new shares in the Company pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act;
AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa
Securities; AND FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately
upon the passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
(Resolution 7)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
3
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
-	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR
TRADING NATURE
“THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements, approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into and to give effect to the category
of the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature
from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in Section 2.5 of the
Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023, provided that
such transactions are:-
(i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;
(ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;
(iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial
terms which are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those
generally available to the public; and
(iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,
(the “Mandate”);
AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution
and shall continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which
time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next
AGM, the authority is renewed;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
Act (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant
to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
of the Company in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such
acts and things (including executing all such documents as may be required),
as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
(Resolution 8)
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
4
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
-	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE
ITS OWN SHARES
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market
Listing Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations
and guidelines for the time being in force and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, approval be and is hereby given
to the Company to purchase such number of ordinary shares as may be
determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa
Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit,
necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-
(a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held
by the Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per
centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as
quoted on Bursa Securities as at the point of purchase; and
(b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of
purchasing its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits
of the Company based on the latest audited financial statements and/or
the latest unaudited financial statements (where applicable) available at
the time of the purchase.
THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and
shall continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at
which time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the
next AGM, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to
conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date is required by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
of the Company in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
(Resolution 9)
AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own
ordinary shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with
the ordinary shares purchased in their absolute discretion in the following
manners:-
(a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or
(b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution
as dividend to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa
Securities and/or transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any)
and/or transfer as purchase consideration;
(c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or
in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders
made pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any
other relevant authority for the time being in force.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all
acts, deeds and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the
best interest of the Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal
of Share Buy-Back Authority with full powers to assent to any conditions,
modifications, variations and/or amendments as may be imposed by the
relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all such acts and things
as they may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
5
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
10. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
-RETENTION OF TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN AS AN
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
“THAT Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain who has served the Board
as an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of ten
(10) years since 30 June 2014 be and is hereby retained as an Independent
Director of the Company.”
(Resolution 10)
11. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
given.
By Order of the Board of Directors
CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689/ SSM PC NO.: 201908002648)
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
Company Secretaries
Dated: 31 October 2023
Explanatory Notes to Special Business:
1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016
The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Eighth AGM of the
Company held on 29 November 2022 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.
The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot
shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion
without convening a general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being
(hereinafter referred to as the “10% General Mandate”).
The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities,
including but not limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment
projects, working capital and/or acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons
at any time as the Directors may deem fit, without incurring any further cost to convene a separate
general meeting to approve such authority. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a
general meeting will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of
the Company, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which
rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company or other securities.
The proposed Resolution 7, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under
the authority to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer new shares to
be issued equally to all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
6
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
2.	Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature
The proposed Resolution 8 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any
of the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the
Group’s day-to-day operations, subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and
on normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally
available to the public and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023 for more information.
3.	Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares
The proposed Resolution 9 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per
centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period
stipulated in Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023 for more information.
4. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain (“Tan Sri Ibrahim”) was appointed as an Independent Director
of the Company on 30 June 2014. Tan Sri Ibrahim has served the Board for a cumulative period of more
than 9 years in this capacity and by the following AGM of the Company in 2024, Tan Sri Ibrahim would
have served the Board for a cumulative period of 10.5 years in this capacity. The Board of Directors
of the Company through the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, after having assessed the
independence of Tan Sri Ibrahim, regards him to be independent based amongst others, the following
justifications, and recommends that Tan Sri Ibrahim be retained as an Independent Director of the
Company subject to the approval from the shareholders of the Company as described in the Guidance
to Practice 5.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance:-
(a) Tan Sri Ibrahim has fulfilled the definition of an independent director as set out under Paragraph
1.01 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“the Exchange”) Main Market Listing Requirements
• has not been within the last 3 years, an officer of the Company or any related corporation
of the Company (each corporation is referred to as “said Corporation”) [“officer” has the
meaning given in Section 2 of the Companies Act 2016 but excludes a director who has served
as an independent director in any one or more of the said Corporations for a cumulative
period of less than 12 years];
• is not a major shareholder of the said Corporation;
• is not a family member of any executive director, officer or major shareholder of the said
Corporation;
• is not acting as a nominee or representative of any executive director or major shareholder of
the said Corporation;
• has not been engaged as an adviser by the said Corporation under such circumstances as
prescribed by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director (except as an Independent
Director) or major shareholder, as the case may be, of firm or corporation which provides
professional advisory services to the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed
by the Exchange;
• has not engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as
prescribed by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director or major shareholder, as
the case may be, of a firm or corporation (other than subsidiaries of the Company) which has
engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed
by the Exchange; or
• has not served as an independent director in any one of more of the said Corporations
for a cumulative period of more than 12 years from the date of his first appointment as an
independent director.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
7
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
(b) Tan Sri Ibrahim has not been involved in any business or other relationship which could hinder
the exercise of independent judgement, objectivity or his ability to act in the best interests of the
Company;
(c) Tan Sri Ibrahim has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including in any competing
business with the Group;
(d) Tan Sri Ibrahim has not established or maintained any significant personal or social relationship,
whether direct or indirect, with the Group Managing Director, major shareholders or management
of the Company (including their family members) other than normal engagements and interactions
on a professional level consistent with his duties and expected of him to carry out his duties as an
independent director; and
(e) Tan Sri Ibrahim does not derive any remuneration and other benefits apart from Director’s fees and
benefits that are approved by shareholders.
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Ninth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
17 November 2023 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to
the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall
have the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting.
3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it
is signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of
the Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The
lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting
in person at the 29th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination
of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the
commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward
for voting.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
8
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
AUDIT AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Tai Keat Chai
Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Member
Adnan bin Ahmad
Member
NOMINATION and
REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman
Tai Keat Chai
Member
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Chua Siew Chuan
(MAICSA 0777689)
SSM PC No.: 201908002648
Yeow Sze Min
(MAICSA 7065735)
SSM PC No.: 201908003120
AUDITORS
Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates
PLT
(LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)
Chartered Accountants
Unit 3-3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,
Mutiara Damansara,
47810 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone No. : +603-7728 1800
Facsimile No. : +603-7728 9800
SHARE REGISTRAR
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn.
Bhd.
[197701005827 (36869-T)]
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940 /
		 +603-2095 0292
Email Address : info@sshsb.com.my
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Ambank Islamic Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
United Overseas Bank (M) Berhad
SOLICITORS
Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
REGISTERED OFFICE
Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Penang, Malaysia
Telephone No. : +604-508 8288
Facsimile No. : +604-508 8566
Email Address : support@
		 rexmalaysia.com
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 9946
Stock Name : REX
Sector : Consumer
		 Products &
		 Services
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman, Independent Non-
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive
Director, Group Managing
Director
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Adnan bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa
Non-Independent Executive
Director
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
9
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain was appointed to the Board
of the Company on 30 June 2014. He is the Chairman of the Board,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a graduate from the British Institute of
Management and Institute of Marketing, United Kingdom, and holds a
Masters in Business Administration from the University of Ohio in the
United States of America.
UponTanSriDato’MohdIbrahim’sgraduationin1965,hejoinedUniversity
Technology MARA (formerly known as Institute of Technology MARA)
as a lecturer and headed its school of business and then became its dean of academic. He was subsequently
appointed as a Council Member/Director, a position which he held until October 2006.
Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had served as Chief Executive Officer of Amanah International Finance
Berhad, Amanah Chase Merchant Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Setron (Malaysia) Berhad, Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries
Berhad, Pan Malaysia Industries Berhad, Pan Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan Malaysia Capital Berhad,
Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad and Kawan Food Berhad, Deputy Chairman of Metrojaya Berhad
and Director of K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad, Brahim’s Holdings Berhad, and AMMB Holdings Berhad and
Censof Holdings Berhad.
Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed
issuer.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the
Group and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing
business with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not
been any public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2023.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had attended four (4) out of five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year
ended 30 June 2023.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd
Ibrahim bin Mohd
Zain
Independent Non-Executive
Director, Chairman
Aged 80 l Malaysian l Male
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
10
Mr.Darmendran Kunaretnamwas appointed to the Boardof the Company
and as the Group Managing Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does
not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia with
a Business Degree majoring in Accounting. He is also a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. He spent ten (10) years as Group Manager in the
Audit Division of an international public accounting firm from 1985 to
1995.
Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering & Construction
Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the General Manager of the Finance and Corporate Planning Division in 1996
and successfully listed Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went on to
restructure and list Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in
June 1997. He was later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August 1997. In year 2007, he, together with
his partner, took Safeguards private.
Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur
Berhad (“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a Non-
Executive Director on 26 February 2009. He was redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August 2009 and
continues to hold this position till present. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in other public
companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December 2016.
Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.
Mr. Darmendran had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive
Director, Group Managing
Director
Aged 62 l Malaysian l Male
Mr. Chee Cheng Chun was appointed to the Board of the Company on
3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees
of the Company.
Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London with a Master
of Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering. He worked as Business
Development Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”)
before he was appointed to the Board of KSTB. Currently, the only
directorship of Mr. Chee in other public companies is KSTB, which was
delisted on 27 December 2016.
Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in
any competing business with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years
and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Aged 38 l Malaysian l Male
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
11
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
Mr. Tai Keat Chai was appointed to the Board of the Company on 6 March
2015. He is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the
Company.
Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants. He began his career with KPMG in London
and moved on subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur. In 1981, he joined
Alliance Investment Bank Berhad for seven (7) years before venturing
into stock-broking, working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd., AA Anthony
Securities Sdn. Bhd. and Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as General
Manager, Director and dealer’s representative respectively.
Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in other public companies and listed issuers include Marine & General Berhad,
Microlink Solutions Berhad, HSS Engineers Berhad and Talam Transform Berhad.
Mr. Tai has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the Group. He
had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public sanctions
or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Aged 69 l Malaysian l Male
Encik Adnan bin Ahmad was appointed to the Board of the Company
on 12 April 2018. He is a member of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee of the Company.
Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial Relations. He started
his career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan & Mohamad in 1967. He then
joined Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including
Head of Human Resource & Administration and Head of Administration
and Regulatory and Premises. He was also the Chairman of Koperasi
Pelaburan Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement
on 31 March 2014.
Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
December 2016.
Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.
Encik Adnan had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Aged 75 l Malaysian l Male
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
12
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim was appointed to the Board of the Company
on 11 October 2022. He also acts as the Chief Executive Officer of Rex
Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the
Company. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of
the Company.
Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in Management Programme.
He has more than thirty (30) years of experience in the fast-moving
consumer goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and marketing
and business re-engineering. Prior to joining the Group, he had various
senior sales and marketing positions in companies such as Rothmans
of Pall Mall Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad and
Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head the sustainable development division at IRIS
Corporation Berhad for five (5) years. He joined the Group in October 2017 as the Marketing Director prior to
assuming his current role as Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.,
the subsidiaries of the Company.
Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed issuer.
Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June
2023.
Dato’ Cheah, had attended all three (3) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023 from
his date of appointment as a Director of the Company.
Dato’
Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Aged 63 l Malaysian l Male
Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, was appointed to the Board of the Company
on 22 May 2023. She is the Company’s General Manager of Procurement,
Logistic and Warehouse, overseeing the overall supply chain operations,
including inventory management and logistics planning. Currently, she
does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Madam Chris graduated with a LCCI Diploma. She started her career
in the Finance Department of Safeguards Oceanic Freightways Sdn.
Bhd. in 1982, working her way up to the operations, sales and eventually
becoming the Chief Executive Officer of a logistics business company
involved in land, sea and air transport, forwarding and warehousing,
Safeguards Oceanic. Madam Chris has over forty (40) years of
experience in the logistics industry, and has various expertise in financial management, human resources,
operations and sales.
Currently, Madam Chris does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed issuer.
Madam Chris has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. She had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on her by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.
As there was no Board Meeting held from her date of appointment as a Director of the Company up until 30
June 2023, Madam Chris did not attend any Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Madam CHRIS
Kong Wai Fa
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Aged 59 l Malaysian l Female
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
13
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Mr. Chia Hup Tong was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the
Company on 23 September 2021.
Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants. He started his career in the audit industry, where he gained
audit and accounting experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan Samudra
Timur Berhad, a company providing services to the oil & gas industry
in 2006 as Accountant responsible for overall finance and corporate
functions. Prior to joining the Group, he was a Group Accountant of
Safeguards Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charged of the overall
group finance, accounts and compliance for six (6) years. He joined the
Company on 1 May 2021 as Finance Manager of P.T. Rex Canning before
he was promoted as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no
conflict of interest with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Chia Hup Tong
Chief Financial Officer of
Rex Industry Berhad
Aged 46 l Malaysian l Male
Mr. Chu Seang Ming was appointed as the General Manager of P.T. Rex
Canning, a subsidiary of the Company, on 1 May 1998.
Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration, Marketing from
Washington International University and various certifications, which
include Indonesia Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994),
FDA/USDA Better Process Control School, Indonesia (1995), NOAA
– Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000) and HACCP Program SGS,
Indonesia (2000).
Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food manufacturer based in
Perak as a Factory Quality Controller where he undertook laboratory
quality control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary
of the Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as
its Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was tasked with establishing and setting up a new
processing plant and operations for the Rex Group in People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General
Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods Ltd. Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of the
general management of P.T. Rex Canning.
Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic
offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Chu Seang Ming
General Manager of P.T. Rex
Canning, Indonesia
Aged 57 l Malaysian l Male
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
14
Ms. Ng Sioh Ching was appointed as the Senior Plant Manager of Rex
Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., as subsidiary of the company on 1 July 2021.
Ms. Ng graduated with a Degree in Food Science. She started her
career as quality controller in Rex Canning in 2000. She has 10 years’
experience in quality control for canned food processing. She then
undertook operations task and canned food,beverage and confectionery
processing before she was promoted as Senior Plant Manager.
Ms. Ng does not hold any directorship in other public companies or
listed issuers.
Ms. Ng has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest with the Group. She has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than
traffic offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Ng Sioh Ching
Senior Plant Manager of Rex
Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
Aged 48 l Malaysian l Female
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the
importance of practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its
stakeholders, and to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”).
The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to
provide an overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set
out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3)
key principles, under the stewardship of the Board:-
a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.
This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG
Report of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”) published on the Company’s
website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Intended Outcome 1.0
Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership
and is collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.
1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group
Managing Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group
with the support of a senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the
operations, issues faced and action plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast
on the conduct, business activities and development of the Company and to discuss and advise
the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term and long-term business strategies.
Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the objectives to be met and
how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are efficiently
and effectively utilized. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s
values and standards.
To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties
and responsibilities to two (2) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
Committee (“ARMC”) and Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”). The Board
Committees assist the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within
their respective functions and terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties
and powers as approved by the Board. The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the
Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions deliberated at each of the Board Committees’
meetings.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the
Company during the FYE 2023, the Board had, amongst others:-
(a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and
professional behaviour;
(b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and
monitored their implementation by the Management;
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
16
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.1 (Cont’d)
(c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes
strategies on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;
(d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is
being properly managed;
(e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
(f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to
ensure that the risks are properly managed;
(g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key
positions;
(h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with
stakeholders; and
(i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive
Director (“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of
the Group and to monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-
(a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility
for the Board decisions;
(b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged
constructive discussions and effective contribution from each Director;
(c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the
Board’s deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;
(d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance
practices within the Group;
(e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely
expressed;
(f) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders
and that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and
improvement, if any;
(g) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth
communication flow between both parties; and
(h) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability
and in any marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.
1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with
clear accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to
ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of
decision making.
The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight
of Management as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has
overall responsibilities over the business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and
implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in
the Company’s Board Charter.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the NRC and a member of the ARMC.
The Board takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered
its Committees’ composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate
governance requirements, recommendations, and best practices, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim will
continue to be part of the Board Committees. The Board is convinced that the presence of the
other members in the Board Committees would still create a good balance for open and free
discussions.
1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries,
namely Ms. Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per
Section 235(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).
The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings)
Sdn. Bhd. with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by
a dedicated team of secretarial personnel.
During the FYE 2023, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities
accordingly. They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law,
the capital market, CG, and other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory
environment through continuous training and industry updates.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to
the Board in discharging their functions and duties.
1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members
to reserve their dates for the meetings. During the FYE 2023, the Management together with the
assistance of the Company Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least
five (5) business days in advance in accordance with the Company’s Constitution.
Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and
accurate record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the
Company Secretaries to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their
review and for them to seek for clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next
Board or Board Committee meeting.
Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the
Board or Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office
of the Company to be made available for inspection.
The Management takes cognizance of the importance of providing complete and adequate
information to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to
discharge their duties and responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete
meeting materials are circulated at least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand
or email.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 2.0
There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.
There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October
2018 and includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details
the responsibilities of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management
limitations, as well as an outline on what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles
and responsibilities as Board Members. With this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities
of the Directors and the Management are clearly set out in the Board Charter as guidance and
clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.
The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.
com.
The TOR of the ARMC has been reviewed in line with the recent amendments made to the MainLR
in relation to the conflict of interest (“COI”) and was approved by the Board on 1 July 2023 for
adoption.
The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and
matters deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee
meetings and reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the
Board during Board meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.
The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
Activities of the NRC
On 15 August 2023, the NC had merged with RC and to be known as Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (“NRC”). The rationale for the merger of the two Board Committees is to enhance the
efficiency of the Board Committees in discharging its duties and responsibilities.
During the FYE 2023, the NRC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-
(i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NRC meetings held;
(ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character,
experience, integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through
a comprehensive assessment system;
(iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board
Committees;
(iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
(v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
(vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring
independent and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
(vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”); and
(viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.
During the FYE 2023, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes
of deliberating on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and
important matters. During the Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance
of the Group and other strategic issues that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior
management members were invited to attend some of the Board meetings to provide the Board
with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
The NRC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee
meetings. Upon review, the NRC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient
time and effort to attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2023.
Directors Directorship Board ARMC NC RC
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
INED 4/5 4/5 2/2 2/2
Tai Keat Chai INED 5/5 5/5 2/2 2/2
Adnan bin Ahmad INED 5/5 5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Darmendran Kunaretnam Non-IED 5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
Chee Cheng Chun Non-INED 5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
(Appointed to the Board
on 11 October 2022)
Non-IED 4/4 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
Kajendra Pathmanathan
(Appointed to the Board
on 11 October 2022)
(Resigned from the Board
on 20 January 2023)
Non-IED 2/2 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance
their skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.
The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-
• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed
by the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;
• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their
knowledge on the latest regulatory and business environment; and
• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.
Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education
would be the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills
and knowledge to meet the challenges ahead.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
20
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Up to the date of this report, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or
courses:-
Name of Directors Dates
Description of
Training Programmes
Tai Keat Chai 19 September 2023 Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
Market Listed Issuers
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
10 July 2023 Security Operation Compliance
Chee Cheng Chun 17 August 2023 Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
Market Listed Issuers
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim 9 & 10 October 2023 Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) 2023
Kong Wai Fa 24 & 25 October 2023 Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) 2023
Intended Outcome 3.0
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate
culture that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviour and practice in the Company.
3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-
• Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and
• Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.
Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.
The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a whistleblowing policy to facilitate the Company’s
employees and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud,
waste of the Company’s resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without
fear of retaliation.
Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should
be made in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are
substantially true and the report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will
be viewed seriously and if proven may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
During the FYE 2023, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
abovementioned communication and feedback channels.
The Board had also adopted an ABC Policy to ensure the Company’s daily operations and businesses do
not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or benefit.
The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and
corruption pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the
2018 amendment to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.
The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
Intended Outcome 4.0
The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic manner
to support its long-term strategy and success.
4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term
value.
The Company, had established Sustainable Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing
governance structure in relation to sustainability.
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the
leadership of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments
within the Group. Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies,
with the Group MD, who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of
sustainability strategies set by the Board.
The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
upcoming financial years as follows:-
• To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.
• To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather
inputs from all relevant departments/functions.
• To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their: -
• Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
• Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
• To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
• With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence
to the sustainability practices and policies.
All sustainability-related activities undertaken to set out by the Company have been disclosed in
the Sustainability Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
4.2 The Company acknowledges the importance of communicating the company’s sustainability
strategies, priorities, and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.
The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s
sustainability strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures
include a comprehensive description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and
efforts. The complete information of the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from
the Group’s annual report and is accessible from the corporate website at http://www.rexmalaysia.
com/
4.3 The Board will take part in several initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the
Group and the industry. The Board will take the necessary steps to undertake professional training,
programmes and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will include
climate-related risks and opportunities.
4.4 The NRC continues to conduct the Board Performance Evaluation annually focussing on the
competency, contribution and performance, as well as calibre and personality. The Board recognises
the importance in addressing the company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities. The
Board will implement this in time to support sustainability measures.
II. BOARD COMPOSITION
Intended Outcome 5.0
Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account
diverse perspectives and insights.
5.1 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s
structure, size, and composition regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with
regard to changes that are deemed necessary. Upon recommending to the Board, NRC will consider
the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity, time commitment, and diversity, where
appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.
During the FYE 2023, in compliance with the Paragraph 15.02 of the MainLR, the NRC had identified
and assessed a suitable candidate for the appointment of female director. Prior to the appointment,
the NRC had conducted the director’s fit and proper assessment and on 22 May 2023, Madam Kong
Wai Fa had been appointed as the female director of the Company.
The NRC also had assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.
The NRC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on
competency, preparedness, and contributions. The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy had been
adopted by the Board on 27 May 2022.
5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
and three (3) Non-Independent Executive Directors.
The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to
facilitate a balanced leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance
to safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set
out in the Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director
may continue to serve on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify
and obtain shareholders’ approval for his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on
the Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.
At the last Twenty-Eighth (28th) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company, the Company
sought and obtained approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
Bin Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014.
		
The Company will again seek approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’
Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9)
years, being a step-up practice.
5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order
to offer greater depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior
management level.
		
		
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of
senior management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven
by any age, cultural background or gender considerations.
		
At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of males and females who are
equipped with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business direction of the
Group.
5.6 The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates
when the need arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board
members, Management, and/or major shareholders.
5.7 The NRC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before
tabling at the General Meeting for voting. The information on the appointment and reappointment
of directors will be shared with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
5.8 The NRC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the
annual review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of
each individual Director is independently assessed.
5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy,
the Board practises non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity
and supports the representation of women in the composition of Board and Senior Management
positions of the Company.
		
Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration
when vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary
aim of selecting the best candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic
objectives.
Currently, the Board consists of one (1) female director who was appointed on 22 May 2023. In this
regard, the Board’s gender diversity stands at nearly half of 30% as required by the MCCG.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
24
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned
with the Company’s objectives:-
i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior
management will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are
identified.
ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members.
In view that the existing Board comprises individuals who have distinguished themselves in
their respective fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives
during board deliberation and decision-making process.
The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome.
Nonetheless, the Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.
Intended Outcome 6.0
Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual
Directors.
6.1 During the FYE 2023, the Board, through the NRC, had conducted the following annual assessments
to determine the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in
the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”):-
(i) Directors’ self-assessment;
(ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
(iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
(iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
(v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.
Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2022, the NRC was satisfied with the
performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.
III. REMUNERATION
Intended Outcome 7.0
The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account
the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
drive the Company’s long-term objectives.
Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.
7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be
referred by the NRC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group
MD, Non-Executive Directors and other senior management personnel.
7.2 Currently, the NRC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and
is presently chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The NRC is governed by its TOR
which outlines its remit, duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on is 31 July
2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 8.0
Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management
is commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s
performance.
8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2023 in the Company
and Group levels respectively, is as follows:-
i) Company Level
Name of
Director
Salaries
and other
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
– – – – –
Dato’ Cheah
Teng Lim
– – – – –
Total – – – – –
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd
Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
– 48,600 – – 2,000
Tai Keat Chai – – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad – 36,000 – – 2,500
Chee Cheng Chun – – – – –
Total – 84,600 – – 4,500
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
26
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
8.1 (Cont’d)
ii) Group Level
Name of
Director
Salaries
and other
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran
Kunaretnam
865,620 – 52,127 – 182,715
Dato’ Cheah
Teng Lim
180,000 21,419 – –
Total 1,045,620 – 73,546 – 182,715
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd
Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
– 48,600 – – 2,000
Tai Keat Chai – 96,000 – – 2,500
Adnan bin Ahmad – 36,000 – – 2,500
Chee Cheng Chun – 36,000 – – 2,500
Total – 216,600 – – 9,500
8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management
staff on a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000, for the best interest of the Group taking
into consideration the competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching
issues, as well as to maintain the privacy of senior management staff.
8.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not be
disclosed for confidentiality purposes.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
Intended Outcome 9.0
There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.
The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The
Company’s financial statements are a reliable source of information.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
9.1 During the FYE 2023, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman
of the Board is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the
objectivity of the Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.
9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may
arise when a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and
preparation of the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies and
Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require a
former key audit partner of the Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year
cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the ARMC.
During the FYE 2023, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order
to uphold the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key
audit partner as a member of the ARMC or Board.
9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and
Independence of External Auditors’ that sets out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC
in assessing the suitability, objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.
In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has
considered the following:-
(a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in
relation to the audit;
(b) Persons assigned to the audit;
(c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
(d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a
timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
(e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of
fees; and
(f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been,
independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms
of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective
and independent to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board has in
turn recommended the same for shareholders’ approval at the twenty-ninth (“29th”) AGM of the
Company.
9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.
9.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient
understanding of the Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the
financial reporting process.
The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and
fair view of the Company’s financial position and performance.
All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous
professional development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and
auditing standards, practices and rules as and when required.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
28
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Intended Outcome 10.0
Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement
necessary controls to pursue their objectives.
The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable
future event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.
10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify,
assess and monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
assets by monitoring the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external
auditors and the outsourced internal auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of
the internal control processes and procedures periodically to ensure that the system is viable and
robust.
With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk
management and internal control.
10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised
the results of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment
process of the Group.
Intended Outcome 11.0
Companies have an effective governance; risk management and internal control framework and
stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.
11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely
Finfield Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with
a reasonable assurance of adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit
function.
The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of
the Company’s compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further
improvement.
During the FYE 2023, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2023 and that they have
the necessary authority to carry out their work.
The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of
the Company and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is
satisfactory and operating effectively.
11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and
the internal audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest,
which could impair their objectivity and independence.
The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a
university degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The
Engagement Partner, Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk
management and corporate governance advisory.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Intended Outcome 12.0
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.
Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its
policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication
to the investing public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group
are accurate, timely, factual, informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary,
information filed with regulators is in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated
spokespersons will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate
flow of information disclosure to the stakeholders.
The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its
stakeholders through a variety of communication channels as follows:-
(a) Announcements to Bursa Securities
Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis
through announcements to Bursa Securities.
Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly
financial results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via
the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
(b) Annual reports
The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating
to the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance
for the past financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and
regulations.
(c) AGM/general meetings
The AGM/general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise
any issues pertaining to the Company.
(d) Corporate website
The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company
and is accessible by the public.
(e) Investor relations
Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they
have any comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the
Company’s general email address.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
30
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS (Cont’d)
12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated
reporting based on a globally recognised framework.
II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Intended Outcome 13.0
Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and
make informed voting decisions at general meetings.
13.1 The Board together with the management committed to ensuring that the despatch of the notice
of every AGM of the Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date
of the meeting. For the 28th AGM, the company managed to circulate the notice of the AGM at
least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the meeting.
The Board is aware that sufficient notice and time given would allow the shareholders to arrange
their time to participate in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their
proxies and corporate representatives for the AGM.
The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable
shareholders to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.
13.2 During the 28th AGM of the Company held on 29 November 2022, one (1) out of seven (7) directors
was not able to attend to the AGM due to personal reasons. The other directors together with the
Chief Financial Controller, Company Secretary and External Auditors participated in the 28th AGM
to provide meaningful responses to questions raised by the shareholders.
13.3 The AGM held on 29 November 2022 was conducted physically to encourage face-to-face
discussions with shareholders and stakeholders.
13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform of interaction between the Board,
Senior Management, and the shareholders of the Company. The Board ensures that shareholders
are given the opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.
At every general meeting of the Company, the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer,
external auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide
greater responses to all shareholders’ queries.
The Chairman also has committedly ensured that all questions raised during general meetings
would be getting responses either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The
responses would be published on the corporate website after the general meetings.
13.5 The 28th AGM was conducted physically which allowed shareholders and stakeholders to efficiently
exercise their rights to vote.
13.6 The Minutes of the 28th AGM held on 29 November 2022 were made available to the shareholders
within thirty (30) business days after the AGM.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly
approved at the Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 24 October 2023.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
31
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
As an organisation, we recognise that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change and
the Board of Directors (“Board”) is pleased to present the Sustainability Statement for the financial year
ended 30 June 2023 (“the Statement”), which has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of
the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.
This Statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking
to embrace sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.
This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis, and we are committed to further it, specifically on the
material sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are
also laying out the action plan to do so in this Statement.
SCOPE
This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-
• Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd
• Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
• Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
• Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd
And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.
Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to: -
• Manufacturing of canned food, drinks, chocolate malt products and coconut milk.
• Trading / sales of canned food, drinks, chocolate malt products and coconut milk.
Collectively, the above contributed to approximately 42% of the Group’s total revenue and our reporting
period is from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023, unless otherwise stated.
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS
Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure
in relation to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is
chaired by our Group Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department i.e.:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership
of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The
Board is ultimately accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director,
who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the
Board.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
32
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (CONT’D)
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-
Board of
Directors
Audit and Risk
Management
Committee
Board of
Directors
Sustainability
Working Group
Head of Departments:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
SUSTAINABILTY STRATEGY
We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business.
As part of our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that,
while running the business effectively, we are also committed to contribute to the larger community. The 4
Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-
Environment
Employees
Suppliers Community
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
33
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
STAKEHOLDERS’ ENGAGEMENT
We have identified and prioritised the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these
stakeholders over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters
with the respective stakeholders, as illustrated below:-
Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Engagement Matters
Shareholders • Annual General Meeting
• Financial statements
• Press releases/announcements
• Dividend
• Return on investment
• Financial performance
• Share performance
Board of Directors • Board meetings
• Annual General Meeting
• Company organised events
• Corporate Governance
• Company business strategy
Employees • Orientation training
• Learning and development
programmes
• Employee performance appraisal
• Corporate organised events
• Occupational safety & health
• Human resource management
• Fair employment practices
• Career development opportunities
Government /
Regulators
• Ongoing interactions
• Formal and informal meetings
• Manufacturing issues and policies
• Foods safety issues and policies
• Effluent & waste management
• Water & energy management
• Compliance to applicable laws
• Economic, environmental and social
impacts
Customers • Face-to-face interaction
• Feedback survey
• Manufacturing quality
• Manufacturing capacity
• Research & Development
Suppliers • Interviews
• Evaluations/Re-evaluations
• Face-to-face interaction
• Agreeable contracts
• Terms of payments
• Maintaining partnerships
Local
communities
• Corporate volunteering programmes
(e.g. community events, knowledge-
sharing initiatives & partnerships with
non-governmental organisations)
• Support towards community
development
• Job creation for local communities
• Undertaking business in a responsible
manner
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
34
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material
sustainability matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a
role.
A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not
been finalised for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.
The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
coming financial years:-
a) To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.
b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather inputs
from all relevant departments/functions.
c) To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their: -
o Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
o Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
e) With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow the Group
to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
practices and policies.
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS
Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current efforts in relation
to the Material Sustainability Matters are set out below: -
Economic
A.	Product Quality and Safety
We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our
products that are safe for consumption.
We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry
such as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri
(“MeSTI”) and Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as
well as attained the Halal MS 1500:2009 certification.
We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee
which have clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority, and appropriate reporting procedures to
ensure the Group’s product quality and safety.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
35
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (CONT’D)
Environment
A. Effluent and waste management
Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would
potentially end up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the
wastewater treatment plant (“WWT”) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried
out on the WWTto cater for the increase in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done
by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater discharged is within the Department of Environment’s
wastewater effluent discharge standards.
B. Energy consumption
Since March 2019, our Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility had switched to natural gas to fuel our
boilers.
Benefits included eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the life
spans of the boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in,
gas is better insulated against supply disruptions.
Social
A. Workplace Safety & Health
We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is
the foundation of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational
Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FMA”) 1997 are adhered to.
Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are aware of
their significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated
throughout the Group.
B. Human resource management
Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high
calibre employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent,
and dedicated talent pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career
development and performance enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.
For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are
adhered to as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as public in the
form of quality products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.
C. Contribution to local community
Similar to previous years, as part of good corporate citizenship program, a portion of the proceeds from
the sale of REX’s products which carry the “Love Rex” logo goes to support the various disabled and
underprivileged groups in our society.
Throughout FYE 2023, we continue to support 3 homes for the underprivileged in the Klang Valley while
under the REX CARE program, over 1,000 deserving families throughout the country were provided
food baskets.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
36
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors
(“Board”) in discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and
reporting practices as well as corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”).
1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members
as follows, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and
as recommended by Step Up Practice 9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the
Audit Committee comprises solely Independent Directors:-
Name Designation Directorship
Tai Keat Chai Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
fulfilling the requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements.
None of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore
Stephens Associates PLT in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any
financial interest in Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
2. MEETING ATTENDANCE
The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2023. The details of the attendance of the
respective ARMC members are as follows:-
Name No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai 5 of 5
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 4 of 5
Adnan bin Ahmad 5 of 5
* The Meetings were held on 29 August 2022, 11 October 2022, 29 November 2022, 14 February 2023
and 16 May 2023.
The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2023,
wherein the ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive
Directors and management personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2023, which was as required in the
Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External
Auditors should be conducted annually.
3. TOR
The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
37
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC
During the FYE 2023, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties,
functions and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-
Financial performance and reporting
a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial
quarters ended 30 June 2022, 30 September 2022, 31 December 2022 and 31 March 2023, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of
the Group on quarterly basis.
c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022
(“FYE 2022”) to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view
of the Company’s financial position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with
the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
External audit
a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors and
management personnel.
b) Received the ARMC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2022,
covering matters to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.
c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 prepared
by the External Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit
matters and areas of audit emphasis and accounting standard updates.
d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2023, and recommended the
same to the Board for approval.
e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-
• Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
• Review of component auditors’ working papers.
f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2023
vide a formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review
and being satisfied with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the
Board to recommend to the shareholders for approval.
g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
38
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (CONT’D)
Internal audit
a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to
those recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were
taken and recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.
b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit
functions vide a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary
authority to carry out its work.
c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 as prepared by the
Internal Auditors.
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)
a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis
to ensure that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-
Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29 November 2022.
b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing
Shareholder Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase
its Own Shares, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control
a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the
Company, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement,
and recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2022 Annual Report.
Other matters
a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s
peer performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of
office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they
have carried out their duties properly in accordance to the TOR.
b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the
ARMC.
c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
39
5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit
service provider to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an
effective internal control and governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control
system is satisfactory and operating effectively.
The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;
b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved
audit plan:-
• Purchasing and payments for PT Rex Canning, Indonesia
• Recurrent related party transactions for Rex Industry Berhad
c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The
reports highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations
for improvements; and
d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported
the same to the ARMC.
The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2023 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual
report.
The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 was
RM9,412.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
40
This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
under paragraph 15.26(a).
The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its
results and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023:-
• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2)
of the Companies Act 2016 is set out in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report
enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June
2023.
The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the
Group are released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing
public informed of the Group’s latest performance and developments.
The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are
reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities and material misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement, loss or fraud.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
41
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”)
of Rex Industry Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2023 pursuant to
Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided
by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued
by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.
The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased
to set out below its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope
of risk management and internal control of the Group during the year.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management
and internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the
Group’s assets and regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that
risk cannot be totally eliminated and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and
manage risks and provide some reasonable but not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of
the Company are safeguarded against material losses and unauthorised use and that the financial statements
are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated in a systematic manner.
The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility,
authority and appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered
by the Board and shall be responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant
risks affecting the achievement of business objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating,
monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process. All significant issues identified and affecting the
business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.
The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the
Group include:
1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas
of responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;
2. Involvement of the Group Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance
at operational and management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and
procedures. The Group Managing Director has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic
issues and challenges affecting the respective business units with the heads of business units. Significant
matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the Board on a timely basis; and
3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the
Group by the Group Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief
Financial Officer on quarterly basis;
The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service
provider that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach
in identifying major operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking
into consideration corporate exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry
out reviews on areas which are identified by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy
and effectiveness of the control processes to address the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen
the control processes, where appropriate.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
42
The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed
appropriate within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and
Risk Management Committee with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective
action taken by Management to ensure adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of
internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess implementation of past audit findings are also carried out
to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal control implemented. During the financial year, the Internal
Auditors reviewed the controls over purchasing and payments for the Indonesia subsidiary and recurrent
related party transactions of the Group. Their report has been presented to the Audited and Risk Management
Committee.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies
of the Group. Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees
the risk management process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”)
formed at subsidiary level.
Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks
The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has
not resulted in any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the
Group during the financial year under review or require disclosure in the 2023 Annual Report. Nevertheless,
the Board recognises the review and improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal
control is an on-going process to accommodate evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the
assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal control of the Group could be closely managed,
monitored and improved over time.
Conclusion
The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks,
procedures, management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered
appropriate. While the Board acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not
eliminate the possibility of collusion or deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors
and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might result in poor judgement, an assurance was received from
the Group Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that the risk management and internal control system
of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues to take measures to enhance and
strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(“MIA”). AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement
covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and
control procedures. AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors to consider whether the processes
described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the Annual
Report will, in fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have reported to
the Board that nothing has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that
this Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the risk management and internal control system.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 24
October 2023.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
43
In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following
information is provided: -
1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex ("Rex Share(s)" or "Share(s)")
("Rights Share(s)") on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together with
54,805,755 free detachable warrants in Rex ("Warrant(s)") on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights
Shares subscribed ("Rights Issue with Warrants")
The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants. The
Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765. The status of the utilisation of
proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -
Details of utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance
(RM’000)
Estimated
Timeframe for
Utilisation
Business expansion
Working capital
Expenses for this
corporate exercise
10,000
5,882
560
(3,811)
(5,882)
(560)
6,189
–
–
Within 18 months
Total 16,442 (10,253) 6,189
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the FYE 2023, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has rendered
certain audit and non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as
follows:-
Item
Company
(RM)
Group
(RM)
Audit services rendered
Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2023 60,000 224,681
Non-audit services rendered
(a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control 8,000 8,000
(b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers – 28,726
Total 68,000 261,407
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’
interests or are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2023.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
44
Our History and Business
Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965
by the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn. Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share
capital of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. and took on the function
as a holding company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ("Bursa
Securities"). The Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn. Bhd. on 5 February 1994. It was converted
to a public limited company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second
Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.
Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex
Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into
a leading manufacturer, distributor and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in
Malaysia. PT Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began commercial operations in August 1992; with principal
activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent
standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. Most of PT Rex’s canned seafood
is exported to the US and EU.
Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing
population.
Our Policy
Towards producing trusted products for all consumers,food safety best practices are core to our business.They
are implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance
with local and international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.
Financial Performance
For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2023, the Group recorded revenue of RM162.40 million which
represents an increase of approximately RM1.29 million as compared to the preceding financial year of RM161.11
million. The increase in revenue was mainly due to higher revenue contribution from the local subsidiaries.
The Group recorded a loss before tax of RM43.41 million for FYE 30 June 2023 as compared to profit before
tax of RM2.93 million made in the preceding financial year. The loss before tax was mainly due to a one-off
impairment of the plant’s fixed assets, allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and provision for
employee termination benefits arising from the decommissioning of the Bukit Minyak, Penang production
facility in line with the business rationalisation plan.
Other contributing factors to the loss were higher input cost and the effects of a weakening Ringgit.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
45
Financial Performance (cont’d)
REX GROUP 		 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2023
(All in RM’000)
Revenue 		 160,539 161,111 162,408
(Loss)/Profit before tax 			 3,912 2,934 (43,414)
The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance
and deliver satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.
Financial Highlights
30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22 30 Jun 23
RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000
Statement of Profit and Loss
Revenue 136,609 149,245 160,539 161,111 162,408
Interest expense 1,905 2,050 1,531 1,171 1,617
					
(Loss)/Profit before Tax after
Minority Interest (14,317) (8,396) 3,912 2,934 (43,414)
					
(Loss)/Profit after Tax and
Minority Interest (13,297) (9,465) 2,603 2,027 (44,399)
Dividend declared – – (987) – –
 
Statement of Financial Position
Paid-up Share Capital 73,742 73,742 97,903 97,903 113,717
Shareholders Funds 113,672 101,891 127,404 129,714 103,562
Borrowings 36,472 42,209 28,884 27,804 31,766
Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”) 106,635 94,854 120,367 122,677 96,525
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
46
Financial Performance (cont’d)
Financial Ratio
					
30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22 30 Jun 23
RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000
Investment Ratio
NTA per share 0.43 0.38 0.24 0.25 0.15
					
Basic (Loss)/Earnings
 Per Share (Sen) (5.39) (3.84) 0.64 0.38 (7.04)
Dividend per share (sen) – – 0.2 – –
Operating Ratio					
					
After tax return on
 shareholders' fund (%) (11.70) (9.29) 2.04 1.56 (42.87)
Pre-tax profit margin (%) (10.48) (5.63) 2.44 1.82 (26.73)
Financial Ratio					
Gearing (times) 0.32 0.42 0.23 0.22 0.31
Interest Coverage ratio (6.52) (3.10) 3.55 3.51 (25.85)
					
Liquidity ratio
					
Current ratio 1.80 1.32 1.87 1.79 1.67
Quick ratio 0.99 0.61 0.93 0.83 0.77
 
Note:
1) The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 493,252,936 to 657,670,581 units of
ordinary shares by way of issuance of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares arising from right issue exercise.
The right issue had been completed when the Rights Shares were listed and quoted on the Main Market
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.
2) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/
profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year.
Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
47
CORPORATE EXERCISE
The Company undertook a fund-raising exercise during the financial year for a renounceable rights issue for
ordinary shares at RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares
held, together with 54,805,755 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed. With
164,417,645 Rights Shares subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The
Rights Shares and Warrants were listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
on 30 August 2022.
The proceeds raised from the Rights Issue were utilised firstly in priority to defray the expenses related to the
Rights Issue, secondly towards business expansion, and lastly towards the working capital required for the
day-to day operations of the Group.
Outlook and Prospects
The Group expects the business environment in the foreseeable future to remain challenging due to continued
uncertainties in the commodity markets, geo-political tensions, weakening of the Ringgit and consumer
demand being impacted by inflationary pressures.
Despite the challenging business conditions, our sales revenue remains steady in the last three years.
Additionally, consumers are expected to down trade given the continued inflationary pressures and our Group
will be poised to benefit because of our value proposition.
A big part of the Group’s business rationalisation plan is to drive for operational efficiencies and cost
optimisation coupled with our steady sales trend, the Group remains confident in improving its financial
position.
The Group will further explore outsourcing certain products to third parties and continue to invest in our
Brands and product innovation to drive sustainable growth.
Acknowledgements
I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our new Executive Director, Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa,
who has been appointed to our Board on 22 May 2023. Her experience and expertise will contribute positively
to the strategies and direction of the Group.
I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for
their continued support, trust, and unwavering confidence over the past years.
To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the Company
forward.
DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
48
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
Class of Securities : Ordinary Shares
Total Number of Holders : 1,463
Number of Issued Share Capital : 657,670,581 Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
		 No. of		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings		
Shareholders % Shares Held %
1 – 99		 25 1.71 678 0.00
100 – 1,000		 154 10.53 64,727 0.01
1,001 – 10,000		 478 32.67 2,948,567 0.45
10,001 – 100,000		 613 41.90 21,376,666 3.25
100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		 191 13.06 445,784,477 67.78
32,883,529 and above (**)		 2 0.14 187,495,466 28.51
TOTAL		 1,463 100.00 657,670,581 100.00
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
** 5% and above of Issued Shares
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based
on the Register of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
		 No. of		 No. of
Substantial Shareholders		
Shares Held % Shares Held %
Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		174,310,400 26.50 – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		83,399,603 12.68 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun 		 – – 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
49
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
(CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the
Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
		 No. of		 No. of
Directors		
Shares Held % Shares Held %
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		 9,415,600 1.43 – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		83,399,603 12.68 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun		 – – 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Tai Keat Chai		 – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad		 – – – –
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		 – – 100,000(2) 0.02
Kong Wai Fa		 – – – –
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
50
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 142,084,800 21.60
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
45,410,666 6.90
3. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd. 32,640,900 4.96
4. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
32,225,600 4.90
5. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd. 32,033,866 4.87
6. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd. 31,097,200 4.73
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)
26,809,066 4.08
8. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd. 25,984,800 3.95
9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)
24,207,600 3.68
10. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan 21,306,666 3.24
11. Darmendran Kunaretnam 14,560,672 2.21
12. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd. 13,283,733 2.02
13. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)
11,452,600 1.74
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L
K Ragavan (021))
10,527,066 1.60
15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
9,415,600 1.43
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)
8,650,666 1.32
17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran
 Kunaretnam (MY2013))
8,533,333 1.30
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
8,068,266 1.23
19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)
7,216,000 1.10
20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran
 Kunaretnam (7000587))
6,826,666 1.04
21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd. 6,666,666 1.01
22. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
Exempt AN for Aham Asset Management Berhad (TSTAC/CLNTT)
6,596,000 1.00
23. Haridas A/L Suppiah 6,531,066 0.99
24. Lee Sew Keng 5,052,528 0.77
THIRTY (30) LARGEST
SHAREHOLDERS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
51
THIRTY (30) LARGEST
SHAREHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023 (Cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
25. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
5,040,000 0.77
26. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)
4,602,000 0.70
27. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
(Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
4,266,666 0.65
28. Kuek Boon Siang 3,473,600 0.53
29. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))
3,066,666 0.47
30. Kamlesh Kumar 2,705,333 0.41
TOTAL 560,336,291 85.20
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
52
Class of Securities : Warrants A
Number of Outstanding Warrants A Issued : 54,805,755
Total Number of Holders : 405
Exercise Ratio : 1 Warrant for 1 Ordinary Share
Maturity Date : 23 August 2027
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANT A HOLDINGS
		
No. of Warrant		 No. of
Size of Warrant A Holdings		 A Holders % Warrants A %
1 – 99		 27 6.67 1,201 0.00
100 – 1,000		 58 14.32 29,615 0.05
1,001 – 10,000		 174 42.96 662,807 1.21
10,001 – 100,000		 97 23.95 3,514,732 6.41
100,001 – 2,740,286 (*)		 45 11.11 29,071,568 53.04
2,740,287 and above (**)		 4 0.99 21,525,832 39.29
TOTAL		 405 100.00 54,805,755 100.00
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Warrants A
** 5% and above of Issued Warrants A
DIRECTORS’ WARRANT A HOLDINGS
The Directors’ Warrant A Holdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Warrant
Holdings of the Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:
Direct Interest Deemed Interest
		 No. of		 No. of
		Warrants A % Warrants A %
Directors		 Held 		 Held
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		 784,666 1.43 – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965 12.68 14,525,866 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun		 – – 14,525,866 (1) 26.50
Tai Keat Chai		 – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad		 – – – –
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		 – – 33,333 (2) 0.06
Kong Wai Fa		 – – – –
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
53
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
(CONT’D)
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 10,423,733 19.02
2. Warrants Capital Limited 4,204,700 7.67
3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
4,102,133 7.48
4. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd. 2,795,266 5.10
5. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Hee Yuen Sang (MY2105)
2,733,000 4.99
6. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd. 2,669,488 4.87
7. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
2,534,222 4.62
8. Darmendran Kunaretnam 2,463,389 4.49
9. Voon Jye Wah 1,445,300 2.64
10. Chai Mei Ling 1,365,000 2.49
11. GV Asia Fund Limited 1,332,300 2.43
12. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd. 1,130,200 2.06
13. Hee Yuen Sang 1,099,500 2.01
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))
877,255 1.60
15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
784,666 1.43
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)
720,888 1.32
17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))
711,111 1.30
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
672,355 1.23
19. Teo Tiew 654,500 1.19
20. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)
601,333 1.10
21. Muhamad Fairiezal Bin Basri 584,600 1.07
22. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))
568,888 1.04
23. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd. 555,555 1.01
24. Beh Chan Chun 450,000 0.82
25. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
420,000 0.77
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
54
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023 (cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
26. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
(Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
355,555 0.65
27. Ewe Hong Khoon 336,733 0.61
28. Chai Mei Ling 329,000 0.60
29. Leow Ho Keng 279,000 0.51
30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))
255,555 0.47
TOTAL 47,455,225 86.59
			
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANT A HOLDINGS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
55
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
199301027926 (282664-K)
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
100%
Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd
100%
Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
100%
Fika Foods Corporation Sdn Bhd
100%
Cinta Edar (M) Snd Bhd
100%
Best Aqua Food Sdn Bhd
100%
Rex Foods Sdn Bhd
100%
Gainasia International Limited
100%
Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
70%
P.T. REX CANNING, INDONESIA
30%
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
56
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its
subsidiaries are set out in Note 12 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year.
RESULTS
				
Group Company
				
RM RM
Loss for the financial year, net of tax attributable to
 Owners of the Company				 (44,399,125) (31,127,458)
DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The
Company is not in a position to pay or declare dividends for the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those
disclosed in the financial statements.
ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up ordinary shares from RM97,903,444
to RM113,716,680 pursuant to the Rights Issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10
per Rights Share, on the basis of one Rights Share for every three existing ordinary shares held, together with
54,805,755 free detachable warrants on the basis of one Warrant for every three Rights Shares subscribed,
net of issuance expenses of RM628,529.
The proceeds from the Rights Issue are for business expansion and working capital purposes. The new
ordinary shares issued during the financial year ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.
Other than the foregoing, the Company did not issue any other shares or debentures during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
57
WARRANTS 2022/2027
During the financial year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”) pursuant
to the Rights Issue with Warrants and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for
the Warrants on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022. The Warrants
2022/2027 are constituted by the Deed Poll dated 29 August 2022.
The salient features and other terms of the Warrants 2022/2027 are disclosed in Note 20(ii) to the financial
statements.
During the financial year, no warrants were exercised. As at 30 June 2023, the total number of Warrants
2022/2027 that remained unexercised were 54,805,755.
Details of Warrants 2022/2027 issued to Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Interests section of this
report.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are:
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Chee Cheng Chun*
Tai Keat Chai*
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim (Appointed on 11 October 2022)
Kajendra Pathmanathan (Appointed on 11 October 2022 and Resigned on 20 January 2023)
Kong Wai Fa (Appointed on 22 May 2023)
* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries
DIRECTORs OF THE SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
Pursuant to Section 253(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Directors who served in the subsidiaries (excluding
Directors who are also Directors of the Company) in office since the beginning of the financial year to the
date of this report is as follows:
Vong Nee Toh
Drs. Lody Joko Susilo
 
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
58
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies
Act 2016, the interest of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares or debentures of the
Company and its related corporations during the financial year were as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
		At			At
		 1.7.2022 Bought Sold 30.6.2023
		 Unit Unit Unit Unit
Name of Directors
Ordinary shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain 		 7,061,600 2,354,000 – 9,415,600
Darmendran Kunaretnam 		 62,549,704 20,849,899 – 83,399,603
Indirect interests:
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		 130,732,800 43,577,600 – 174,310,400
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 130,732,800 43,577,600 – 174,310,400
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		 400,000# – 300,000 100,000
Number of Warrants
			 At			 At
			 1.7.2022 Allotted Conversion 30.6.2023
			 Unit Unit Unit Unit
Warrants shareholding
 registered in the name
 of Directors
In the Company
Direct interest:
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain		 – 784,666 – 784,666
Darmendran Kunaretnam 		 - 6,949,965 – 6,949,965
Indirect interest:
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		 - 14,525,866 - 14,525,866
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 - 14,525,866 - 14,525,866
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		 - 33,333 - 33,333
* Deemed interested via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
^ Indirect interest by virtue of shares held by his spouse pursuant to section 59 and 197 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
# At date of appointment
The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares and warrants
of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
59
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company
and the estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash
from the Company and its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows:
				
Company Subsidiaries
				
RM RM
Fees and allowances				 89,100 137,000
Salaries and other emoluments				 - 1,228,335
Contributions to defined contribution plan				 - 72,108
Social security contributions				 - 1,438
				 89,100 1,438,881
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the
financial statements or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made
by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member,
or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, except as disclosed in Note 28 to
the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of the Group and
of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the
making of provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no known bad
debts and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of
business including their value as shown in the accounting records of the Company have been
written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for
doubtful debts inadequate to any substantial extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company misleading;
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount
stated in the financial statements misleading.
 
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
60
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within
the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability
of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not
been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature other
than as disclosed in the financial statements; and
(iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between
the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this
report is made, except from the business rationalistion plan as disclosed in Note 34 to the financial
statements.
(e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries as remuneration
for their services for the financial year are as set out in Note 6 to the financial statements.
(f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the
Company or any of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.
(g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company
and its subsidiaries.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Significant event during the financial year is disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24
October 2023.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
 MOHD ZAIN
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
61
We, the undersigned, being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the
Directors,the accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 67 to 147 are drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 30 June 2023 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year then ended.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24
October 2023.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
 MOHD ZAIN
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
I, CHIA HUP TONG, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 67 to 147 are to the best of
my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to
be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the
abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory
on 24 October 2023.
Before me, CHIA HUP TONG
MOHAMAD ZULISWANDI BIN MOHAMED
W1006
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
62
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 30 June 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting
policies, as set out on pages 67 to 147.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
Goodwill
As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 13 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Group’s
goodwill amounted to approximately RM7.0 million.
The Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of impairment exists, perform
impairment assessments of goodwill that has an indefinite useful life.For the purpose of performing impairment
assessments, goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating unit (“CGU”). The management
assessed the recoverable amounts of the goodwill by determining the respective CGU based on fair value less
cost of disposal method using future discounted cash flows. The management concluded that no impairment
on goodwill is required for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
REGISTRATION NO.: 199301027926 (282664-K)
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
63
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
(cont’d)
Investments in subsidiaries
As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 12 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Company’s
investments in subsidiaries amounted to approximately RM82.0 million. During the financial year, the Company
has recognised an impairment loss of approximately RM30.7 million for its investments in subsidiaries.
A lower of net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amount
of investments in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount
of the investments in subsidiaries based on fair value less cost of disposal method using discounted cash
flows projections derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a
five-year period.
Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, the carrying amounts of the Group’s PPE
amounted to approximately RM52.2 million, representing approximately 29% of the Group’s total assets.
On 2 June 2023, the Company have announced to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”)
regarding the business rationalisation plan to downsize and decommission its production facility in Bukit
Minyak Industrial Park, Seberang Perai Tengah, Pulau Pinang (“Bukit Minyak Production Facility”) in which the
Group operates the facility for the manufacturing of canned food and drinks. This gave rise to an indication
that the carrying amounts of PPE may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amount
of the PPE based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows
projections derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year
period.
We have identified the impairment review of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE as key audit
matters as impairment test involves significant judgement in estimating the underlying assumptions to
be applied in the discounted cash flows projections. The recoverable amounts of goodwill, investments in
subsidiaries and PPE are highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect of future revenue growth rate,
gross margin and the discount rate used in the cash flows projections. A small change in the assumption can
have a significant impact on the estimation of the recoverable amount.
Our audit performed and responses thereon
In addressing the matters above, we have performed the following audit procedures to evaluate management’s
basis and assumptions used in the discounted cash flows projections for respective subsidiaries and CGUs:-
• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts based on discounted cash flows projections were prepared
by management based on the approved budgets by the Directors;
• Evaluated management’s budgeting process by comparing actual results to historical cash flows
projections;
• Reviewed management’s impairment assessment including compared, gross margin and discount
rate against our knowledge of the subsidiaries’ and CGUs’ historical performance, business and cost
management strategies based on facts and circumstances currently available;
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
64
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
(cont’d)
Our audit performed and responses thereon (cont’d)
• Performed sensitivity analysis by changing certain key assumptions used in the discounted cash
flows projections and assessed the impact on the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments in
subsidiaries, goodwill and PPE;
• Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE; and
• Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments
to estimate the fair values of the subsidiaries.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
65
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
66
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
 
From the matters communicated with the Directors,we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and
are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that
a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.
MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT TAN KEI HUI
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA) 03429/04/2025 J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096) Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 24 October 2023
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
67
STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue 4 162,408,090 161,111,027 – –
Changes in manufactured inventories		 (6,482,134) (5,885,489) – –
Raw materials and consumables used		 (111,457,480) (101,087,836) – –
Staff costs		 (23,357,395) (21,093,810) (89,100) (71,710)
Depreciation		 (4,656,957) (4,630,378) – –
Other expenses		 (35,244,942) (27,253,246) (292,896) (252,177)
Impairment loss on financial assets		 (3,336,868) (106,827) – (1,564,836)
Impairment loss on non-financial assets		 (20,633,216) (156,083) (30,745,462) (4,374,609)
Other income		 963,849 3,207,948 – –
(Loss)/profit from operations		 (41,797,053) 4,105,306 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Finance costs 5 (1,616,892) (1,171,083) – –
(Loss)/profit before tax 6 (43,413,945) 2,934,223 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Tax expense 7 (985,180) (907,159) – –
(Loss)/profit for the financial year		 (44,399,125) 2,027,064 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Other comprehensive income,
 net of tax
Item that may be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation		 2,098,635 1,269,392 – –
Item that will not be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		 335,128 – – –
Total other comprehensive
 income for the financial year		 2,433,763 1,269,392 – –
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year		 (41,965,362) 3,296,456 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
(Loss)/profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 		 (44,399,125) 2,027,064 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Total comprehensive income
 attributable to:
Owners of the Company 		 (41,965,362) 3,296,456 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Basic (loss)/earnings per
 ordinary share attributable
 to Owners of the
 Company (sen):
- Basic 8 (7.04) 0.38
- Diluted 8 (7.04) 0.38
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
68
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 52,239,323 80,377,179 – –
Right-of-use assets 10 5,576,472 5,604,842 – –
Investment properties 11 5,505,572 – – –
Investments in subsidiaries 12 – – 82,013,702 84,880,641
Goodwill on consolidation 13 7,037,480 7,037,480 – –
		 70,358,847 93,019,501 82,013,702 84,880,641
Current Assets
Inventories 14 58,045,582 58,316,937 – –
Trade receivables 15 28,669,726 34,408,795 – –
Other receivables 16 2,879,181 6,750,592 30,331 235,497
Amounts due from subsidiaries 17 – – – 12,166,214
Tax recoverable		 187,256 161,328 31,320 31,320
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 18 936,589 900,000 – –
Cash and bank balances		 17,427,480 7,890,165 22,018 93,310
		 108,145,814 108,427,817 83,669 12,526,341
TOTAL ASSETS		 178,504,661 201,447,318 82,097,371 97,406,982
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 19 113,716,680 97,903,444 113,716,680 97,903,444
Reserves 20 (1,568,467) (3,667,102) – –
(Accumulated losses)/
 retained earnings		 (8,585,964) 35,478,033 (34,879,215) (3,751,757)
Total equity attributable to
 Owners of the Company 		 103,562,249 129,714,375 78,837,465 94,151,687
Non-Current Liabilities
Borrowings 21 8,178,974 9,272,106 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 22 1,477,185 1,491,888 – –
Lease liabilities 23 477,939 390,087 – –
		 10,134,098 11,154,081 – –
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
69
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
(CONT’D)
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Borrowings 21 23,586,617 18,532,065 – –
Trade payables 24 20,010,259 19,823,659 – –
Other payables 25 17,609,197 21,274,054 127,583 255,372
Rebate liability 26 3,296,408 596,276 – –
Amounts due to subsidiaries 17 – – 3,132,323 2,999,923
Lease liabilities 23 226,342 273,060 – –
Tax payable		 79,491 79,748 – –
		 64,808,314 60,578,862 3,259,906 3,255,295
Total Liabilities 		 74,942,412 71,732,943 3,259,906 3,255,295
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 		 178,504,661 201,447,318 82,097,371 97,406,982
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
70
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
Attributable to Owners of the Company
		 Non-distributable Distributable
					
Share Translation Retained Total
				
Note Capital Reserve Earnings Equity
					RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 July 2021					 97,903,444 (4,936,494) 34,437,474 127,404,424
Foreign currency translation difference for foreign operations,
 representing total other comprehensive income for the financial year		 – 1,269,392 – 1,269,392
Profit for the financial year					 – – 2,027,064 2,027,064
Total comprehensive income for the financial year				 – 1,269,392 2,027,064 3,296,456
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Dividend 				 27 – – (986,505) (986,505)
At 30 June 2022					 97,903,444 (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-distributable 		 Distributable
							
Retained
							
Earnings/
		 Share	Other Translation Warrants Total (Accumulated Total
Note Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserves	Losses) Equity
		
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
At 1 July 2022		 97,903,444 – (3,667,102) – (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375
Foreign currency
 translation difference
 for foreign operations		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635
Defined benefit plan
 actuarial gain		 – – – – – 335,128 335,128
Total other comprehensive
 income for the financial year		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 335,128 2,433,763
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – (44,399,125) (44,399,125)
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year		 – – 2,098,635 – 2,098,635 (44,063,997) (41,965,362)
Transaction with Owners
 of the Company
Rights issue with warrants,
 net of transcation cost 19, 20 15,813,236 (2,092,584) – 2,092,584 – – 15,813,236
At 30 June 2023		 113,716,680 (2,092,584) (1,568,467) 2,092,584 (1,568,467) (8,585,964) 103,562,249
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
71
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-distributable 		Distributable
							
Retained
							
Earnings/
			 Share	Other Warrants Total (Accumulated Total
		 Note Capital Reserve Reserve Reserves	Losses) Equity
		
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company
At 1 July 2021 			 97,903,444 – - – 3,498,080 101,401,524
Loss for the financial year,
 representing total
 comprehensive income
 for the financial year 			 – – – – (6,263,332) (6,263,332)
Transaction with
 Owners of the Company
Dividend		 27 – – – – (986,505) (986,505)
At 30 June 2022/1 July 2022 			 97,903,444 – – – (3,751,757) 94,151,687
Loss for the financial year,
 representing total
 comprehensive income
 for the financial year			 – – – – (31,127,458) (31,127,458)
Transaction with
 Owners of the Company
Rights issue with warrants,
 net of transcation cost		 19, 20 15,813,236 (2,092,584) 2,092,584 – – 15,813,236
At 30 June 2023 			 113,716,680 (2,092,584) 2,092,584 – (34,879,215) 78,837,465
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
(CONT’D)
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
72
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
(Loss)/profit before tax		 (43,413,945) 2,934,223 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
 
Adjustments for:
 Allowance for obsolete and
  slow-moving inventories		 5,446,445 37,102 – –
 Depreciation of investment properties		 112,359 – – –
 Depreciation of property,
  plant and equipment		 4,126,210 4,154,724 – –
 Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 418,388 475,654 – –
 Gain on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment		 – (389,920) – –
 Gain on lease modification		 – (2,230) – –
 Gain on lease termination		 – (5,526) – –
 Impairment loss on:
 - amounts due from subsidiaries		 – – – 1,564,836
 - investments in subsidiaries		 – – 30,745,462 4,374,609
 - property, plant and equipment		 20,633,216 156,083 – –
 - trade receivables		 548,859 31,466 – –
 - other receivables		 2,788,009 75,361 – –
 Interest expense		 1,616,892 1,171,083 – –
 Interest income		 (149,217) (59,385) – –
 Provision for employee
  termination benefits 25 900,000 306,210 – –
 Provision for dismantling
  and relocation cost 25 360,000 – – –
 Reversal of impairment loss on:
 - trade receivables		 (186,244) (3,626) – –
 - other receivables		 (213,599) (1,143,733) – –
 Reversal of allowance for obsolete
  and slow-moving inventories		 (6,493) (563,116) – –
 Unrealised loss on
  foreign exchange, net		 423,394 433,548 – –
 Waiver of lease liabilities		 (7,500) – – –
 Written off on investments
  in subsidiaries		 – – 10 –
 Operating (loss)/profit before
  changes in working capital,
  balance carried down		 (6,603,226) 7,607,918 (381,986) (323,887)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
73
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(CONT’D)
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Operating (loss)/profit before
 changes in working capital,
 balance brought down		 (6,603,226) 7,607,918 (381,986) (323,887)
Changes in working capital:
 Inventories		 (3,094,657) (4,374,545) – –
 Trade and other receivables		 6,960,938 (3,446,031) 205,166 (214,849)
 Trade and other payables		 (975,295) (53,698) (127,789) 53,878
 Rebate liability		 2,700,132 13,788 – –
Cash used in operations		 (1,012,108) (252,568) (304,609) (484,858)
 Interest paid		 (1,616,892) (1,171,083) – –
 Interest received		 149,217 59,385 – –
 Tax paid		 (1,029,916) (1,030,538) – –
 Tax refunded		 – 40,135 – –
Net cash used in operating activities		 (3,509,699) (2,354,669) (304,609) (484,858)
Cash Flows from
 Investing Activities
Acquisition of property,
 plant and equipment		 (1,673,746) (5,946,296) – –
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:-
 -Cash payments		 (89,896) (85,043) – –
Proceeds from disposal
 of property,
 plant and equipment		 – 930,001 – –
(Advances to)/repayment
 from subsidiaries		 – – (15,712,319) 1,385,868
Net cash (used in)/from
 investing activities		 (1,763,642) (5,101,338) (15,712,319) 1,385,868
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
74
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
(Repayment to)/advance
 from Directors 		 (4,307,970) 4,280,010 – –
Advances from subsidiaries (ii) – – 132,400 36,605
Dividend paid		 – (986,505) – (986,505)
Drawdown/(repayment)
 of borrowings, net (ii) 2,716,375 (1,779,672) – –
Payment for the principal
 portion of lease liabilities (ii),(iii) (280,061) (336,736) – –
Proceeds from issuance of
 rights issue with warrants,net
 of transaction cost		 15,813,236 – 15,813,236 –
Net cash from/(used in)
 financing activities		 13,941,580 1,177,097 15,945,636 (949,900)
Net increase/(decrease) in
 cash and cash equivalents 		 8,668,239 (6,278,910) (71,292) (48,890)
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of the financial year 		 7,507,269 13,756,277 93,310 142,200
Effect of exchange rate
 changes on cash and cash
 equivalents 		 116,381 29,902 – –
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of the financial year (i) 16,291,889 7,507,269 22,018 93,310
(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances 		 17,427,480 7,890,165 22,018 93,310
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 18 936,589 900,000 – –
			 18,364,069 8,790,165 22,018 93,310
Less: Bank overdrafts 21 (2,072,180) (1,282,896) – –
			 16,291,889 7,507,269 22,018 93,310
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
75
(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:
			 Amount due Bankers’		 Revolving	Lease
			 to Directors Acceptance Term Loans Credit	Liabilities
			RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
At 1 July 2022		 8,603,808 13,009,048 10,512,227 3,000,000 663,147
Additions [Note 10(i)]		 – – – – 308,529
Waiver of lease liabilities		 – – – – (7,500)
Exchange differences		 – 455,761 – – 20,166
Drawdown, net		 – 3,038,864 – – –
(Repayment to)/advances from		 (4,307,970) – (1,688,889) (145,413) (306,210)
Interest expense		 – 836,536 529,864 145,413 26,149
Net changes in financing cash flows		 (4,307,970) 3,875,400 (1,159,025) – (280,061)
At 30 June 2023		 4,295,838 17,340,209 9,353,202 3,000,000 704,281
			 Amount due Bankers’		 Revolving	Lease
			 to Directors Acceptance Term Loans Credit	Liabilities
			RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
At 1 July 2021		 4,323,798 13,309,730 11,702,594 3,000,000 1,106,782
Additions		 – – – – 280,779
Lease modifications		 – – – – (97,905)
Lease termination		 – – – – (291,688)
Exchange differences		 – 288,623 – – 1,915
Advances from/(repayment to)		 4,280,010 (1,158,746) (1,617,704) (120,132) (365,915)
Interest expense		 – 569,441 427,337 120,132 29,179
Net changes in financing cash flows		 4,280,010 (589,305) (1,190,367) – (336,736)
At 30 June 2022		 8,603,808 13,009,048 10,512,227 3,000,000 663,147
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
76
(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: (cont’d)
						
Amount due
						
to subsidiaries
						
RM
Company
2023
At 1 July 2022					 2,999,923
Advances from 				 132,400
At 30 June 2023 				 3,132,323
2022
At 1 July 2021					 2,963,318
Advances from				 36,605
At 30 June 2022				 2,999,923
(iii) Cash outflows for leases as lessee are as follows:
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Included in net cash used in operating activities:
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 				 (26,149) (29,179)
Payment relating to short-term lease and lease of low value assets 		 (984,876) (743,663)
Included in net cash used in financing activities:
Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities 			 (280,061) (336,736)
Total cash outflows for leases 				 (1,291,086) (1,109,578)
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(CONT’D)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
77
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 126, Jalan
Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Penang.
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its
subsidiaries are set out in Note 12. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities
of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution
dated 24 October 2023.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the
preparation of the financial statements.
(i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements
that are mandatory as follows:-
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before
 Intended Use
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
Annual Improvements to MFRSs 2018 – 2020
The adoption of the above accounting pronouncements did not have any significant effect on
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
78
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early
adopted
The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new accounting pronouncements
that have been issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not
yet effective for the Group and the Company:-
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative  
 Information
Amendments to MFRS 101 and  
 MFRS Practice Statement 2
Disclosure of Accounting Policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising  
 from a SingleTransaction
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRS 107 and
 MFRS 7
Supplier Finance Arrangements
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability
Effective date to be announced
Amendments to MFRS 10 and
 MFRS 128
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
 its Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company will adopt the above accounting pronouncements when they
become effective in the respective financial periods. These accounting pronouncements are
not expected to have any effect to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
upon their initial applications.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical
cost convention except otherwise disclosed in the accounting policy notes.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
79
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(c) Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency
of the primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The
consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the
Company’s functional currency, unless otherwise stated.
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s
and the Company’s results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures.
Certain of these accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and
subjective judgements and the use of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are
inherently uncertain and susceptible to change. Directors exercise their judgement in the process
of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies.
Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the
financial statements. They affect the application of the Group's and of the Company’s accounting
policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on
experience and relevant factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results may differ from the judgements, estimates
and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the estimated results.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at
the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.
(i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting
date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the
Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount
is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use (“VIU”). When the
recoverable amount of an asset is determined based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-
generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset is allocated, the management is required to make
an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and also to apply a suitable
discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This
requires management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit
to which goodwill is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the
present value of those cash flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross
margins, growth rates estimated and discount rate used. If the expectation is different from
the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying value of goodwill.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
80
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
(iii) Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss
associated with their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology
applied as disclosed in Note 3(p)(i) depends on whether there has been a significant increase
in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted
by MFRS 9, which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition
of the receivables.
For other receivables and amount due from related parties, the Group and the Company
apply the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to
measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the
probability of default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss given default
of that financial asset.
For amount due from subsidiaries, the Company applies the approach permitted by MFRS 9,
which requires the Company to measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial
asset at an amount based on the probability of default occurring within the next 12 months
considering the loss given default of that financial asset.
(iv) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories
In conjunction with the business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would
lead to decommissioning of one of the subsidiary’s production facilities subsequent to the
financial year, the management performed a review for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
When necessary, allowance is provided for obsolete and slow-moving inventories to adjust the
carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value. The identification
of obsolete and slow- moving inventories is based on considerations such as future demand
and selling prices for each product, quality concern and other factors. This review required
judgement and estimates where possible changes in these estimates could result in revision
to the valuation of inventories.
(v) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows
generated by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by
assumptions and judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount
rates. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in
subsidiaries.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
81
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
(vi) Defined benefit plan
The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well
as the present value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial
valuation involves making assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality
rate, disability rate and resignation rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, management has derived the applicable interest
rates from the market yield on government bond which sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing
Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.
The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 25(iv).
(vii) Classification between investment properties and property, plant and equipment
Certain property comprises a portion that is held to earn rental income or capital appreciation,
or for both, whilst the remaining portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods
and services or for administrative purposes. If the portion held for rental and/or capital
appreciation could be sold separately (or leased out separately as a finance lease), the Group
accounts for that portion as an investment property. If the portion held for rental and/or
capital appreciation could not be sold or leased out separately, it is classified as an investment
property only if an insignificant portion of the property is held for use in the production or
supply of goods and services or for administrative purposes. Management uses judgement
to determine whether any ancillary services are of such significance that a property does not
qualify as an investment property.
(viii)Provision for employee termination benefits
The Group recognises a provision for employee termination benefits, when the Group has a
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been
reliably estimated. The Group estimates the amount of provision based on a detailed plan
agreed between management and employee representatives.
In determining the provision for employee termination benefits, judgements and assumptions
are made by the Group in estimates the amount of provision based on the number of employees
expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the reporting date
are discounted to present value.
(ix) Rebate liability
The Group participates in various promotional programmes with customers designed to
increase the sale of products. Among the programmes are arrangements under which rebates,
refunds, price concessions or similar items can be earned by customers for attaining agreed
upon sales levels, or for participating in specific marketing programmes. Those promotional
programmes do not give rise to a separate performance obligation. Where the consideration
the Group is entitled to varies because of such programmes, the amount payable is deemed
to be variable consideration. Management makes estimates on an ongoing basis for each
individual promotion to assess the value of the variable consideration based upon detailed
budget agreed between management and customers. The related accruals are recognised as
a deduction from revenue or in other expenses and are not considered distinct from the sale
of products to the customer.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
82
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
financial statements.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and
its subsidiaries as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as
the Company. Consistent accounting policies are applied for like transactions and events in similar
circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and only if the Company has all the following:
(i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant
power activities of the investee);
(ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
(iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company
considers the following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are
sufficient to give it power over the investee:
(i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of
holdings of the other vote holders;
(ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
(iii) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
(iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have,
the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made,
including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases
when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a
deficit balance.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing
control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of
the Group’s interest and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their
relative interests in the subsidiaries. The resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and
attributed to owners of the Company.
When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are
compared to the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying
amount of allocated goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised
as gain or loss on disposal.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
83
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
Business combination
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an
acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition
date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on
a transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree
either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction
cost incurred are expensed and included in the profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at
the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is
deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit
or loss or a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as
equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances
where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in
accordance with the appropriate MFRS.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of
embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date
through profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred
and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised in the profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the
acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit
from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned
to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that
unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these
circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion
of the cash-generating unit retained.
Subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at
cost less impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal
proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-
group transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
84
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions and balances
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other
than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using
the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated
in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the
exchange rates on the reporting date. Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies
are not retranslated at the reporting date except for those that are measured at fair value are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was
determined.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of
monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences
arising on monetary items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.
(ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different
from the presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated
into RM as follows:-
• Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate
prevailing at the reporting date;
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year,
which approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and
• All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.
Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when
control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.
On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of
the subsidiary is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the
cumulative translation differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other
partial disposals.
(c) Revenue and other income recognition
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is
satisfied, i.e. when the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance
obligation is transferred to the customer.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct
goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to
the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business
practices.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
85
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(c) Revenue and other income recognition (cont’d)
Revenue from contracts with customers (cont’d)
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts
collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of
consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar
items, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the
expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one
performance obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation
based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.
The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the
variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time.
The control over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time
if:
- The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s
performance as the Group performs;
- The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset
is created or enhanced; or
- The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has
an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time
at which the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.
Rebate liability
A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable)
from the customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to
return to the customer. The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs
its obligation under the contracts.
The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and
discounts are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration
for the expected future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method.
The Group then applies the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and
recognises a refund liability for the expected future rebates.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
86
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(c) Revenue and other income recognition (cont’d)
Other income
Other income earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:
Interest income
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Wage subsidy
Government grant/assistance received from Government on wage subsidy is recognised on monthly
basis over the qualified period under the criteria set by the Government.
(d) Employee benefits
Short term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the
financial year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term
accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are
rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leaves are recognised when absences
occur.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
reporting period.
Defined contribution plans
As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the national pension scheme, the
Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the
relevant state pension scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once
the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Defined benefit plan
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately
for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for
their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present
value. Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The
discount rate is the yield at the end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from
Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in the same currency in which the
benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using
the projected unit credit method.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
87
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(d) Employee benefits (cont’d)
Defined benefit plan (cont’d)
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total
of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the
form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order
to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding
requirements that apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if
it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past
service by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period
until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is
recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans to equity
in other comprehensive income in the period when they arise and all expenses related to defined
benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan
when the curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting
change in the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation
and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been
recognised.
Termination benefit
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement
date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The
Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminate the
employment of current employees according to a detailed plan without possibility of withdrawal;
or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the measurement of termination
benefits is based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due
more than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to present value.
(e) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are
recognised in the profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are
capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that
are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of
borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare
the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
88
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(f) Income taxes
Current tax
Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the
expected amount payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and
foreign operations, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any
adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the
related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the
carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition
of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is
measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are realised
or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary
differences relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it
is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
that future taxable profit will be available for the assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is
adjusted against goodwill on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in
the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the
acquisition cost.
(g)	Leases
As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset
or to restore the underlying asset or site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
89
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(g)	Leases (cont’d)
As a lessee (cont’d)
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end
of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:
Leasehold land over the remaining lease period
Hostel rental 3 years
Factory rental 6.5 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are presented as a separate line in the statements of
financial position.
In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted
for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. The Group applies MFRS 136 to determine whether
a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment loss as described in
Note 3(p)(ii).
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the
commencement date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease payments
included in the measurement of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease
payments, amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, and exercise price
under an extension option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group
changes its assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.
Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised
on a straight-line basis as an expense in the profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less.
As a lessor
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to
ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on
a straight-line basis over the lease terms and is included in other income in profit or loss due to its
operating nature. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same
basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are
earned.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
90
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(h) Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
during the financial year, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year for the
effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and warrants.
(i)	Property, plant and equipment
Property,plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses.
(i) Recognition and measurement
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and
any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended
use, cost of replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected
cost for the decommissioning of the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets
also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are
capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and
maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful
lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and
equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
benefits are expected from its use or disposal.Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property,
plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied
within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the
day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as
incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of
individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the
remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
91
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(i)	Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
(iii) Depreciation (cont’d)
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated
useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following
annual rates:-
Buildings 2%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 5% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 5% - 20%
Motor vehicles 20%
Land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period, and adjusted as appropriate.
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until
they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these
property, plant and equipment.
(j) Capital work-in-progress
Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes
borrowing costs incurred during the period of construction.
No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the
cost will be transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(k) Investment properties
Investment properties are properties which are owned or held to earn rental income or for capital
appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production
or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are measured initially at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly
attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The cost of self-constructed investment
property includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other cost directly attributable to
bringing the investment property to a working condition for their intended use.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The depreciation rate for the building is 2% per
annum.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, annually.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
92
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(k) Investment properties (cont’d)
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the
investment properties are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is
expected from its disposal. Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment
property are recognised in profit or loss in the financial period in which they arise.
Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use. For a
transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent
accounting is the carrying amount at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property
becomes an investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the
policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use.
(l) Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase
consideration and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities in the subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
losses, if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when
indication of impairment exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent
periods.
Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the
computation of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income.
(m) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
existing location and condition.
Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for
as follows:
- cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a
weighted average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).
- cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of
production overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposits with licensed banks
and short-term fund that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to
an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and
cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
93
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) Financial instruments
(i) Initial recognition and measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when,
and only when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of
the instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or
a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or
issuance. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at
the transaction price.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host
contract is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is
not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host
contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event
an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy
applicable to the nature of the host contract.
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business
model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified
on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the business model.
Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model
whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding. The financial assets are not designated as fair value
through profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by
impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are
recognised in the profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the profit
or loss. Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying
amount except for credit impaired financial assets [see Note 3(p)(i)] where the effective
interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.
All financial assets are subject to impairment assessment [see Note 3(p)(i)].
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
94
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss.
Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
(iii) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the
statements of financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently
has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a
net basis or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
(iv) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are
measured at higher of:
• the amount of the loss allowance; and
• the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.
Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
(v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
convention in the market place concerned.
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised,as applicable,
using trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:
(a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date;
and
(b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
95
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(vi) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred
to another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying
amount and the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any
new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is
recognised in the profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability,
the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred
to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or
liabilities assumed, is recognised in the profit or loss.
(p) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on
financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected
credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-
(i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible
within the 12 months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life
of the instrument is less than 12 months); or
(ii) Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over
the expected life of a financial instrument.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant
increase in credit risk.
Simplified approach – trade receivables
The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade
receivables as permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime
losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses
on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and
the Company’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the
debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the
forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where
applicable.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
96
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(p) Impairment (cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (cont’d)
General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts
The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other
financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to
be measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a
financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk
has increased significantly since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount
equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased
significantly since initial recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group and the Company
consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue
cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based
on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and
including forward looking information, where available.
If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of
the financial instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit
risk since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.
The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management
purposes when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the
Company in full, without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising
security (if any is held).
The Company considers a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of the
loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors of the subsidiaries in full, without
recourse by the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The Company
only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into account by
adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.
The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period
over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
Credit impaired financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events
that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have
occurred.
Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the
following events:
- Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
- A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than
90 days past due);
- The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would
not otherwise consider (e.g. the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the
Company on terms that the Group and the Company would not consider otherwise);
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
97
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(p) Impairment (cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (cont’d)
Credit impaired financial assets (cont’d)
Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the
following events: (cont’d)
- It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation; or
- The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.
Write-off policy
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the
extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
or the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that
could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However,
financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order
to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery of amounts due. Any
recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.
(ii) Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end
of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any
such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash- generating
unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the
profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss
is recognised directly against any revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the
impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that
largely are independent from other assets and groups.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use
and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of
the impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable
amount is recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued
asset in which case it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted
by the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been
recognised for the asset in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the
subsidiary exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s
fair value less costs to sell and present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to
be derived from the investment including the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent
increase in recoverable amount is recognised in the profit or loss.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
98
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(q) Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group
and of the Company after deducting all of their liabilities.
(i) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental
transaction costs. Ordinary shares are equity instruments. Dividends on ordinary shares are
recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
(ii) Issuance expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issuance of instruments classified as equity are recognised
as a deduction from equity.
(iii) Warrants reserve
Rights Issue with Warrants
Total proceeds received by the Company arising from the Rights Issue with Warrants have
been allocated to two types of equity instruments i.e. share capital and warrants. Fair value of
Rights Issue and Warrants are adjusted for the apportionment of its relative fair value between
share capital and warrants. The amount allocated to warrant represents the relative fair value
of the warrant issued are credited to a warrants reserve which is non-distributable. Warrants
reserve is transferred to the share capital account upon the exercise of warrants and the
warrants reserve in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants period
will be transferred to other reserve.
(r)	Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present
legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting
the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as
finance cost.
(s)	Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it
may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions
with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed
regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the
Company, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its
performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
99
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(t) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to
another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as
far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1 : Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities tha
			the Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
			 asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 : Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
4. REVENUE
The Group sells a range of canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of products are
recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being the date when
the customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.
Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 30.
5. FINANCE COSTS
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Interest expense on:		
Bank overdrafts				 78,930 24,994
Bankers' acceptance				 836,536 569,441
Lease liabilities				 26,149 29,179
Revolving credit				 145,413 120,132
Term loans 			 529,864 427,337
				 1,616,892 1,171,083
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
100
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
6. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed in Note 5, (loss)/profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		RM RM RM RM
Auditors' remuneration:
- statutory audit		 224,681 221,363 60,000 60,000
- other services		 36,726 37,677 8,000 8,000
Allowance for obsolete and
 slow-moving inventories		 5,446,445 37,102 – –
Depreciation of investment properties		 112,359 – – –
Depreciation of property,
 plant and equipment		 4,126,210 4,154,724 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 418,388 475,654 – –
Employee benefits expense (Note a)		 23,357,395 21,093,810 89,100 71,710
Gain on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment		 – (389,920) – –
Gain on lease modification		 – (2,230) – –
Gain on lease termination		 – (5,526) – –
Impairment loss on:
- amounts due from subsidiaries		 – – – 1,564,836
- investments in subsidiaries		 – – 30,745,462 4,374,609
- property, plant and equipment		 20,633,216 156,083 – –
- trade receivables		 548,859 31,466 – –
- other receivables		 2,788,009 75,361 – –
Interest income		 (149,217) (59,385) – –
Provision for dismantling
 and relocation cost		 360,000 – – –
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables		 (186,244) (3,626) – –
- other receivables		 (213,599) (1,143,733) – –
Reversal of allowance for obsolete
 and slow-moving inventories		 (6,493) (563,116) – -
Realised loss/(gain) on
 foreign exchange, net		 2,239 (53,671) – –
Rental income		 (330,283) (262,518) – –
Short-term lease and lease
 of low value assets:
- premises		 774,599 603,678 – –
- equipment		 210,277 139,985 – –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		 423,394 433,548 – –
Wage subsidy (Note c) 		 – (292,200) – –
Waiver of lease liabilities		 (7,500) – – –
Written off of investments in subsidiaries – – 10 –
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
101
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
6. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (COnt’d)
Other than those disclosed in Note 5, (loss)/profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-
(cont’d)
(a) Employees benefits expense comprise:-
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		RM RM RM RM
Staff costs:
Directors' remuneration (Note b)		 1,697,930 1,289,945 89,100 71,710
Salaries, wages, allowances
 and overtime		 19,969,366 18,026,949 – –
(Income)/expense from
 defined benefit plan		 (702,676) 28,294 – –
Contributions to defined
 contribution plan		 593,153 558,307 – –
Social security contributions		 899,622 884,105 – –
Provision for employee
 termination benefits 900,000 306,210 – –
			 23,357,395 21,093,810 89,100 71,710
(b) Directors’ remuneration comprise:-
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		RM RM RM RM
Directors of the Company:
Executive Directors
Salaries and other emoluments 		 1,228,335 903,660 – –
Contributions to defined
 contribution plan		 72,108 54,264 – –
Social security			
 contributions 1,438 676 – –
			 1,301,881 958,600 – –
Non-executive Directors
Fees and allowances		 226,100 182,010 89,100 71,710
			 1,527,981 1,140,610 89,100 71,710
Directors of the Subsidiaries:
Executive Directors
Salaries and other emoluments		 161,854 143,057 – –
Social security contributions 8,095 6,278 – –
		 169,949 149,335 – –
		 1,697,930 1,289,945 89,100 71,710
(c) Wage subsidy
Represents grant received from the Malaysian Government in relation to wage subsidy for eligible
employees.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
102
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
7. TAX EXPENSE
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Current income tax:
- Foreign tax				 985,538 923,154
Underprovision in prior year:
- Malaysian tax				 14,345 –
				 999,883 923,154
Deferred tax (Note 22):		
Reversal of temporary differences 			 (14,703) (15,995)
Tax expense for the financial year 			 985,180 907,159
Income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) of the estimated assessable
results for the financial year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the
respective jurisdictions.
The reconciliation of the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and to the Company’s
tax expense are as follows:
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		RM RM RM RM
(Loss)/profit before tax 		 (43,413,945) 2,934,223 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Tax at the Malaysian statutory
 income tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%)		 (10,419,300) 704,200 (7,470,600) (1,503,200)
Effect of different tax
 rate in other country		 (11,737) (65,700) – –
Income not subject to tax 		 (95,929) (282,004) – –
Expenses not deductible
 for tax purposes 		 1,677,541 715,363 7,470,600 1,503,200
Deferred tax assets not
 recognised 		 9,820,260 538,600 – –
Utilisation of previously
 unrecognised deferred tax assets		 – (703,300) – –
Underprovision in respect of prior years:
- income tax 14,345 – – –
Tax expense for the financial year 985,180 907,159 – –
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
103
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (cont’d)
The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available
for set-off against future taxable profits:-
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 37,883,744 27,506,693
Unabsorbed capital allowances 			 24,371,700 19,368,100
				 62,225,444 46,874,793
The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed
capital allowances carried forward.
The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval
to offset against future taxable profit. The unutilised tax losses of the Company and its subsidiaries in
Malaysia will be allowed to be carried forward for 10 consecutive years of assessment (“YA”) deemed to
be effective from YA 2019.
8. (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit
after tax attributable to Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the financial year.
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Basic (loss)/earnings per share:
(Loss)/profit after tax attributable to the Owners
 of the Company (RM)				 (44,399,125) 2,027,064
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:
Number of ordinary shares at beginning
 of the financial year (unit)				 493,252,936 493,252,936
Effect of rights issue with warrants 			 137,390,087 36,962,106
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
 at end of the financial year 			 630,643,023 530,215,042
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (sen) 			 (7.04) 0.38
(b) Diluted
Diluted loss per share is not presented as the Warrants 2022/2027 were anti-dilutive in nature
during the financial year, considering the average market price of the ordinary share was lower than
the exercise price of the unexpired warrants as disclosed in Note 20(ii).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
104
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
				Plant, Furniture,
				 machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Cost
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously 15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066 6,027,809 1,496,466 1,430,397 126,903,009
Reclassification 271,194 (335,949) (1,095,685) 2,389,180 2,021,793 – 3,250,533
At 1 July 2022, as restated 15,972,540 46,317,976 54,497,381 8,416,989 3,518,259 1,430,397 130,153,542
Additions – 654,984 823,926 120,036 – 74,800 1,673,746
Reclassification within property,
 plant and equipment – – 1,487,197 18,000 – (1,505,197) –
Reclassification from
 right-of-use assets (Note 10) – – – – 99,296 – 99,296
Reclassification to investment
 properties (Note 11) – (6,249,366) – – – – (6,249,366)
Exchange differences 327,846 133,010 369,594 31,121 57,444 – 919,015
At 30 June 2023 16,300,386 40,856,604 57,178,098 8,586,146 3,674,999 – 126,596,233
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
105
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
				Plant, Furniture,
				 machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
2023 (cont’d)
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905 793,140 – 46,369,747
Reclassification – 429,503 (590,282) 1,434,715 1,976,597 – 3,250,533
At 1 July 2022, as restated – 10,415,918 31,198,005 5,236,620 2,769,737 – 49,620,280
Charge for the financial year – 701,422 2,822,844 399,011 202,933 – 4,126,210
Reclassification from
 right-of-use assets (Note 10) – – – – 63,369 – 63,369
Reclassification to investment
 properties (Note 11) – (631,435) – – – – (631,435)
Exchange differences – 55,488 252,554 29,648 51,497 – 389,187
At 30 June 2023 – 10,541,393 34,273,403 5,665,279 3,087,536 – 53,567,611
Accumulated Impairment Loss
At 1 July 2022 – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
Charge for the financial year 939,743 1,767,125 15,090,876 2,735,454 100,018 – 20,633,216
At 30 June 2023 939,743 1,767,125 15,090,876 2,891,537 100,018 – 20,789,299
Net Carrying Amount
At 30 June 2023 15,360,643 28,548,086 7,813,819 29,330 487,445 – 52,239,323
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
106
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
				Plant, Furniture,
				 machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont'd)
2022
Cost
At 1 July 2021 15,483,682 47,163,144 51,315,544 5,618,959 1,516,807 – 121,098,136
Additions – 11,000 3,484,236 384,228 12,934 2,053,898 5,946,296
Disposals – (588,180) (40,500) – (161,645) – (790,325)
Reclassification within property,
 plant and equipment – – 618,357 5,144 – (623,501) –
Reclassification from
 right-of-use assets (Note 10) – – – – 96,135 – 96,135
Exchange differences 217,664 67,961 215,429 19,478 32,235 – 552,767
At 30 June 2022 15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066 6,027,809 1,496,466 1,430,397 126,903,009
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 July 2021 – 9,245,685 29,015,852 3,327,346 614,294 – 42,203,177
Charge for the financial year – 803,862 2,663,825 456,612 230,425 – 4,154,724
Disposals – (95,688) (32,161) – (122,395) – (250,244)
Reclassification from
 right-of-use assets (Note 10) – – – – 44,312 – 44,312
Exchange differences – 32,556 140,771 17,947 26,504 – 217,778
At 30 June 2022 – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905 793,140 – 46,369,747
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
107
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
				Plant, Furniture,
				 machinery fittings		 Capital
				 and factory and office Motor work-in-
		Land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
2022 (cont’d)
Accumulated Impairment Loss							
At 1 July 2021 – – – – – – –
Charge for the financial year – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
At 30 June 2022 – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2022 15,701,346 36,667,510 23,804,779 2,069,821 703,326 1,430,397 80,377,179
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
108
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
(i) Assets pledged as security
As at 30 June 2023, certain land and buildings with net carrying amount of RM29,422,369 (2022:
RM31,196,945) are held as security with the banks for certain banking facilities granted to the Group
as disclosed in Note 21.
(ii) Land in Indonesia
Land in Indonesia which is regulated under Hak Guna Bangunan (“HGB”) can be renewed indefinitely
with minimal cost if certain conditions are met. The Group assessed the conditions and concluded
that the possibility of non-renewal of the usage rights of the land is remote. Hence, the Group
exercised significant judgement and concluded that the land is in substance a purchase of rights
which meets the definition of property, plant and equipment regardless of whether the legal title
transfers.
(iii) Transfer to investment properties
During the financial year, the Group transferred two buildings at net carrying amount of RM5,617,931,
which are held either to earn rental income or capital appreciation or for both to investment
properties as disclosed in Note 11.
(iv) Impairment loss
The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each
reporting date to assess whether there is any indication of impairment. When an indication exists,
the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the
property, plant and equipment was derived based on fair value less cost to sell as well as VIU
method using cash flows projection derived from the most recent financial forecast and projections
approved by the Directors covering a period of 5 years.
Ceased of trading and manufacturing of biscuit business
2023
Two subsidiaries of the Company, Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd. (“Summit”) and Cinta Edar
(M) Sdn. Bhd. (“CEM”) have on 3 July 2022 ceased their business in manufacturing of biscuits and
related activities due to continuously loss making since prior years. Accordingly, the Group has
performed impairment assessment to estimate the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of
Summit comprised the manufacturing plant, machinery and factory equipment using fair value less
cost to disposal method based on a scrap value basis, which the scrap value of the manufacturing
plant, machinery and factory equipment was deemed to be its recoverable amount. As a result, the
Group recognised an impairment loss of RM1,129,750 (2022: RM156,083) in the “impairment loss
on non-financial assets” line item in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023.
2022
In the previous financial year, the key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount
of Summit’s underlying assets are as follows:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted gross margin is 22%. Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over
the budgeted period.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
109
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
(iv) Impairment loss (cont’d)
Ceased of trading and manufacturing of biscuit business (cont’d)
2022 (cont’d)
In the previous financial year, the key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount
of Summit’s underlying assets are as follows: (cont’d)
(b) Weighted average growth rate
The weighted average growth rate for business operations is 6%. Revenue growth is projected
based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well
as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
(c) Pre-tax discount rate
A pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the
Company as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.
Decommissioning of Bukit Minyak Production Facility
2023
Following the Company’s business rationalisation plan as disclosed in Note 34 to the financial
statements, two subsidiaries of the Company, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd (“RCSB”) and Rex Trading
Sdn. Bhd. (“RTSB”) have performed impairment loss assessment to determine the recoverable
amounts of Bukit Minyak Production Facility and Batu Pahat Production Facility.
The Group estimated the fair value less costs to sell of the manufacturing plant and equipment
at Bukit Minyak Production Facility based on the scrap value of the plant, machinery and factory
equipment as these assets will be highly probable to be disposed of to a third party supplier at
scrap value of approximately RM600,000. For the leasehold land (as disclosed in Note 10) and
building at Bukit Minyak Production Facility, there was no indication of impairment given that the
indicative current market value was determined to be higher than the carrying amounts of these
assets. The indicative current market value was estimated at RM48,000,000.
The management estimated the recoverable amount for Batu Pahat Production Facility (including
the land and building) based on higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal. Value
in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows expected to be generated from the
continuing use of Batu Pahat Production Facility and was based on the following key assumptions:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 18.5% to 21% depending on the type of products.
Gross margins are based on values achieved previously preceding the start of the budget
period and are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.
(b) Annual revenue growth rate
The annual revenue growth rate for Batu Pahat Production Facility is 5%. Revenue growth is
based on growth achieved in the five years preceding the start of the budget period as well as
taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
110
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
(iv) Impairment loss (cont’d)
Decommissioning of Bukit Minyak Production Facility (cont’d)
2023 (cont’d)
Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows expected to be generated
from the continuing use of Batu Pahat Production Facility and was based on the following key
assumptions: (cont’d)
(c) Pre-tax discount rate
A pre-tax discount rate of 8.7% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of
capital.
The impairment review led to an impairment loss of RM19,503,466 (2022: Nil) being recognised in
the “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item in the statements of comprehensive income
of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Following the recognition of an impairment loss on the manufacturing plant and equipment in Batu
Pahat Production Facility, the recoverable amount is now equal to the carrying amount. Therefore,
any adverse change in a key assumption may result in a further impairment loss.
The sensitivity of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in each of the key
input is as follows:
- A 0.5% increase in the discount rate used would have given rise to additional impairment loss
of RM588,000; or
- A 5% decrease in revenue would have given rise to additional impairment loss of RM1,179,000.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
111
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
		Leasehold Hostel Factory Motor
		 land rental rental vehicles Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Cost
At 1 July 2022 7,048,346 270,546 544,982 384,361 8,248,235
Additions [Note (i)] – – – 398,425 398,425
Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 9)* – – – (99,296) (99,296)
Expiry of lease contract – (82,675) – – (82,675)
Exchange differences – – – 33,473 33,473
At 30 June 2023 7,048,346 187,871 544,982 716,963 8,498,162
Accumulated Depreciation					
At 1 July 2022 2,200,403 78,280 251,529 113,181 2,643,393
Charge for the financial year 121,200 145,298 83,843 68,047 418,388
Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 9)* – – – (63,369) (63,369)
Expiry of lease contract – (82,675) – – (82,675)
Exchange differences – – – 5,953 5,953
At 30 June 2023 2,321,603 140,903 335,372 123,812 2,921,690
Net Carrying Amount					
At 30 June 2023 4,726,743 46,968 209,610 593,151 5,576,472
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
112
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)
		 Leasehold Hostel Office Factory Motor
		 land rental rental rental vehicles Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont'd)
2022
Cost
At 1 July 2021 7,048,346 500,990 403,995 544,982 189,251 8,687,564
Additions [Note (i)] – 82,675 – – 283,147 365,822
Reclassification to property,
   plant and equipment (Note 9)* – – – – (96,135) (96,135)
Lease modification – (313,119) – – – (313,119)
Lease termination – – (403,995) – – (403,995)
Exchange differences – – – – 8,098 8,098
At 30 June 2022 7,048,346 270,546 – 544,982 384,361 8,248,235
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 July 2021 2,083,196 128,727 84,166 167,686 80,511 2,544,286
Charge for the financial year 117,207 166,997 33,667 83,843 73,940 475,654
Reclassification to property,
 plant and equipment (Note 9)* – – – – (44,312) (44,312)
Lease modification – (217,444) – – – (217,444)
Lease termination – – (117,833) – – (117,833)
Exchange differences – – – – 3,042 3,042
At 30 June 2022 2,200,403 78,280 – 251,529 113,181 2,643,393
Net Carrying Amount
At 30 June 2022 4,847,943 192,266 – 293,453 271,180 5,604,842
* Reclassification as a result of the full settlement of lease liabilities.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
113
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)
(i) Acquisition of right-of-use assets are satisfied by the following:-
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Cash payments				 89,896 85,043
Lease arrangement 			 308,529 280,779
				 398,425 365,822
(ii) The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as
follows:-
Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Depreciation of right-of-use assets				 418,388 475,654
Gain on lease modification				 – (2,230)
Gain on lease termination				 – (5,526)
Interest expense on lease liabilities				 26,149 29,179
Lease of low value assets				 210,227 139,985
Short-term leases				 774,599 603,678
Waiver of lease liabilities 			 (7,500) –
11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
						
Group
						
2023
						
RM
Buildings
Cost
At 1 July 2022					 –
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 9) 		 6,249,366
At 30 June 2023 				 6,249,366
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 July 2022					 –
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 9)			 631,435
Charge for the financial year 				 112,359
At 30 June 2023 				 743,794
Net Carrying Amount
At 30 June 2023 				 5,505,572
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
114
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (cont’d)
(a) The fair value of the investment properties are as below:
						
Group
						
2023
						
RM
At fair value:
Buildings 				 5,700,000
The fair value is determined by the Directors based on market values for similar properties in the
same vicinity. The fair value of the investment properties is within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
(b)		
The entire investment properties of the Group have been pledged as security to secure term loan
facilities of the Group as disclosed in Note 21.
(c) Income and expenses derived from the above investment properties are as below:
						
Group
						
2023
						
RM
Lease income					 290,400
Direct operating expenses:
- Quit rent and assessment					 7,186
- Insurance					 12,921
- Term loans interest expense 				 97,270
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
		Company
					
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Unquoted Shares, Cost
At beginning of the financial year				 42,501,620 42,501,620
Written off				 (268,013) –
At end of the financial year				 42,233,607 42,501,620
Capital Contribution To Subsidiaries			
At beginning of the financial year				 51,221,633 51,221,633
Addition (Note 17)				 27,878,533 –
At end of the financial year				 79,100,166 51,221,633
Accumulated Impairment Loss
At beginning of the financial year				 8,842,612 4,468,003
Addition				 30,745,462 4,374,609
Written off				 (268,003) –
At end of the financial year				 39,320,071 8,842,612
Net Carrying Amount				 82,013,072 84,880,641
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
115
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents amounts due from subsidiaries which are non-trade in
nature, unsecured and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future. As these amounts are in substance, represent additional investments in
the subsidiaries, they are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Effective equity
interest
Principal activities
2023
%
2022
%
Rex Canning Co.
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and export of canned
 food and drinks
Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of canned food, drinks
 and confectioneries
Fika Foods Corporation
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Summit Teamtrade
 (2011) Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture of biscuit, ceased
 operation during the
 financial year
P.T. Rex Canning * # Indonesia 100 100 Manufacture and export of
 canned food
Cinta Edar (M)
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Trading of manufactured biscuit,
 ceased operation during the
 financial year
Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Best Aqua Food
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Cinta Edar (Selatan)
 Sdn. Bhd. @
Malaysia – 100 Dormant
Fika Foods Marketing
 Sdn. Bhd. @
Malaysia – 100 Dormant
Gainasia International
 Limited * ^
British Virgin
Islands
100 100 Dormant
* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# Fika Food Corporation Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning.
^ The financial statements is reviewed for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ The subsidiaries have been struck off with the Registrar pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies
Act 2016 in the current financial year.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
116
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Strike off of dormant subsidiaries
During the financial year, the Company had written off the investment in two subsidiaries, Fika Foods
Marketing Sdn. Bhd. and Cintar Edar (Selatan) Sdn. Bhd., as the said subsidiaries had been struck-off
from the Registrar pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016 and are accordingly dissolved.
Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries
As at the reporting date, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment
in subsidiaries. An impairment loss amounting to RM30,745,462 (2022: RM4,374,609) was being
recognised as “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item in the Company’s statement of
comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
As disclosed in Note 9 (iv), Summit and CEM have ceased their operations and became dormant. The
recoverable amounts of the subsidiaries were derived based on fair value loss costs of disposal which
were measured based on the net assets of the respective subsidiaries. The impairment review led to the
recognition of an impairment loss of RM710,962 in profit or loss of the Company and included in the
“impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively,as a result of the business rationalisation plan,the Company
has carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment in subsidiaries. The recoverable
amounts of these subsidiaries have been determined based on discounted cash flows projections from
financial budgets approved by Board of Directors covering five years period. The impairment review led
to the recognition of an impairment loss of RM30,034,500 in profit or loss of the Company and included
in the “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
In determining the discounted cash flows projections, the key assumptions used are as follows:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 18.5% to 25% depending on the type of products.
Gross margins are based on values achieved previously preceding the start of the budget period
and are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.
(b) Annual revenue growth rate
The annual revenue growth rate for business operations is 5%. Revenue growth is based on
growth achieved in the five years preceding the start of the budget period as well as taking into
consideration of future demand outlook.
(c) Discount rate
A post-tax discount rate of 8.2% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of capital.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
117
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Following the recognition of an impairment loss on the investments in subsidiaries, the recoverable
amount is now equal to the carrying amount. Therefore, any adverse change in a key assumption may
result in a further impairment loss.
The sensitivity of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in each of the key input is
as follows:
- A 0.5% increase in the discount rate used would have given rise to additional impairment loss of
RM2,856,200; or
- A 5% decrease in future planned revenues would have given rise to additional impairment loss of
RM8,473,400.
In the previous financial year, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its
investment in certain subsidiaries due to their persistent loss-making and significant accumulated losses
position. The recoverable amounts of the subsidiaries were derived based on fair value loss costs of
disposal which were measured based on the net assets of respective subsidiaries. This has resulted in an
impairment loss of RM4,374,609 being recognised as “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item
in the Company’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Cost
At beginning/end of the financial year				 11,378,743 11,378,743
Accumulated Impairment Loss
At beginning/end of the financial year				 (4,341,263) (4,341,263)
Net Carrying Amount 			 7,037,480 7,037,480
Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-
Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Indonesia manufacturing plant 			 7,037,480 7,037,480
For the purpose of annual impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which
represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management
purposes.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
118
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)
Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill (cont’d)
Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on fair value less cost of disposal
method using future discounted cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected
based on the financial budget for 2024 and projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(i) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted average gross margin is 15% (2022: 15%). Gross margins are based on values achieved
previously preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained
over the budgeted period.
(ii) Weighted average growth rate
The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 5% (2022: 7%). Revenue growth is
projected based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as
well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
(iii) Discount rate
A post-tax discount rate of 9.3% (2022: 10.1%) was applied to the calculations in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of
the Company as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.
(iv) Terminal growth rate
A terminal growth rate of 2.5% (2022: nil) was then applied. Management believes that this terminal
growth rate was justified due to the long-term nature of the Indonesia manufacturing business.
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts
have been considered in determining the recoverable amounts of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity
analysis performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the
above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amounts of the unit to be materially below its
carrying amount.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
119
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
14. INVENTORIES
					
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Cost:
Raw materials				 23,808,075 21,826,500
Manufactured inventories				 28,434,147 24,679,076
Packaging materials				 9,732,651 10,783,461
Spare parts and diesel				 1,587,866 1,895,774
Inventories in transit 			 – 38,280
		 			 63,562,739 59,223,091
Less: Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories			
At beginning of the financial year				 (906,154) (1,787,209)
Addition				 (5,446,445) (37,102)
Reversal				 6,493 563,116
Written off				 828,949 355,041
At end of the financial year 			 (5,517,157) (906,154)
Net Carrying Amount 			 58,045,582 58,316,937
Inventories recognised in cost of sales 			 112,493,169 106,936,223
As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, as a result of the business rationalisation plan, the
management performed a review on obsolete and slow-moving inventories in conjunction with the
business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would lead to decommissioning of one
of the subsidiary’s production facilities subsequent to the financial year. The identification of obsolete
and slow-moving inventories based on considerations such as future demand and selling prices for
each products, quality concern and other factors. As a result, allowance for obsolete and slow-moving
inventories of RM339,114 and RM5,107,331 are provided to write down the carrying value of inventories
and are included in “changes in manufactured inventories” and “raw materials and consumables used”
line items respectively in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the financial year
ended 30 June 2023.
The Group had reversed the previously made slow moving inventories of RM6,493 (2022: RM563,116)
as the spare parts were being utilised in production during the year. The amount reversed has been
included in “other income” line item in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022 respectively.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
120
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
15. TRADE RECEIVABLES
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Trade receivables, gross 			 30,149,732 37,068,632
Less: Allowance for impairment loss
At beginning of the financial year				 (2,659,837) (2,720,062)
Additions				 (548,859) (31,466)
Reversal				 186,244 3,626
Written off				 1,542,446 88,065
At end of the financial year 			 (1,480,006) (2,659,837)
Trade Receivables, Net 			 28,669,726 34,408,795
The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2022: 30 to 90
days). Other credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.
Trade receivables amounted to RM9,470,097 (2022: RM8,745,048) is held as security for bankers’
acceptance facilities as disclosed in Note 21.
16.	OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Sundry receivables, gross		 490,277 2,415,490 – –
Less: Allowance for
 impairment loss
At beginning of the
 financial year		 (1,467,395) (2,535,767) – –
Additions		 (325,799) (75,361) – –
Reversal		 213,599 1,143,733 – –
Written off		 1,170,398 – – –
At end of the
 financial year		 (409,197) (1,467,395) – –
Sundry receivables,net		 81,080 948,095 – –
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
121
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
16.	OTHER RECEIVABLES (cont’d)
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Deposits, gross
Less: Allowance for
 impairment loss (i) 2,802,196 2,479,362 – –
At beginning of
 the financial year		 – – – –
Additions		 (2,267,000) – – –
At end of the
 financial year		 (2,267,000) – – –
Deposits, net		 535,196 2,479,362 – –
Prepayments, gross
Less: Allowance for
 impairment loss (ii) 2,458,115 3,323,135 30,331 235,497
At beginning of the
 financial year		 – – – –
Additions		 (195,210) – – –
At end of the
 financial year		 (195,210) – – –
Prepayment, net		 2,262,905 3,323,135 30,331 235,497
Other Receivables, Net 		 2,879,181 6,750,592 30,331 235,497
(i) Included in deposits, net of the Group are:
(a) Deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to RM368,000 (2022: RM2,267,000);
and
(b) Non-interest bearing deposits placed with bank for bank guarantee facilities granted to the
Group amounting to RM48,000 (2022: RM48,000).
(ii) Included in prepayments, net of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM955,103
(2022: RM1,581,074).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
122
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
17. AMOUNTS DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
		 Company
				
2023 2022
			Note RM RM
Amounts Due From Subsidiaries:
Non-trade, gross			 (i) 1,564,836 13,731,050
Less: Allowance for impairment loss
At beginning of the financial year 				 (1,564,836) –
Additions				 – (1,564,836)
At end of the financial year		 		 (1,564,836) (1,564,836)
Amounts Due From Subsidiaries, Net		 		 – 12,166,214
Amounts Due To Subsidiaries:				
Non-trade			 (ii) (3,132,323) (2,999,923)
(i) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances to and are collectible on demand.
(ii) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances from and are repayable on demand.
The movement of amounts due from subsidiaries is as follows:
		 Company
				
2023 2022
			 Note RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 12,166,214 15,116,918
Advances to/(Repayment from)				 15,712,319 (1,385,868)
Capitalised as capital contribution by the Company		 12 (27,878,533) –
Impairment loss during the financial year 			 – (1,564,836)
At end of the financial year 			 – 12,166,214
18. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS
The effective interest rates of the fixed deposit of the Group ranging from 2.80% to 3.84% (2022: 1.70%
to 2.15%) per annum with maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2022: 3 to 6 months).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
123
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
19. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
Number of shares Amount
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			Unit Unit RM RM
Ordinary Shares
Issued And Fully Paid
At beginning of the financial year		 493,252,936 493,252,936 97,903,444 97,903,444
Rights issue with warrants 		 164,417,645 – 15,813,236 –
At end of the financialyear		 657,670,581 493,252,936 113,716,680 97,903,444
During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up ordinary shares from
RM97,903,444 to RM113,716,680 pursuant to the the Rights Issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares
at an issue price of RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of one Rights Share for every three existing
ordinary shares held, together with 54,805,755 free detachable warrants on the basis of one Warrant for
every three Rights Shares subscribed, net of issuance expenses of RM628,529.
The proceeds from the Rights Issue are for business expansion and working capital purposes. The
new ordinary shares issued during the financial year ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company.
All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regard to the
Company’s residual interests.
20. RESERVES
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Non-distributable:
Translation reserve (i) (1,568,467) (3,667,102) – –
Warrants reserve (ii) 2,092,584 – 2,092,584 –
Other reserve (iii) (2,092,584) – (2,092,584) –
		 (1,568,467) (3,667,102) – –
(i) Translation reserve
The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of foreign subsidiary.
(ii) Warrants reserve
Warrants 2022/2027
During the financial year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”)
pursuant to the Rights Issue with Warrants on the basis of one Rights Warrant for every three
Rights Shares subscribed, and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for the
Warrants on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022. The fair value
of the Warrant was determined based on the fair value of warrants immediately upon the listing
and quotation thereof as RM0.07 per warrant. The Rights Warrants are constituted by the Deed Poll
dated 29 August 2022.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
124
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
20. RESERVES (cont’d)
(ii) Warrants reserve (cont’d)
Warrants 2022/2027 (cont’d)
The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows:
(i) Issue price
The Warrants will be issued at no cost to the Entitled Shareholders
(ii) Exercise price
Each Warrant entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe
for one new ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.15 per Warrant.
(iii) Exercise period
Five (5) years commencing on and including the date of issuance of the Warrants. Any
Warrants not exercised during the exercise period will thereafter lapse and cease to be valid.
(iv) Rights of Warrant holders
The holder of Warrants shall not be entitled to any voting rights or to participate in any
dividends, rights, allotments and/or other forms of distributions other than on winding-up,
compromise or arrangement of our Company and/or offer of further securities in the Company
until and unless such holders of the Warrants becomes a shareholder of the Company by
exercising their Warrants into new Ordinary Shares of the Company or unless otherwise
resolved by the Company in a general meeting.
(v) Ranking of new ordinary shares
The new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants will, upon
allotment and issuance, rank equally in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company except that such new ordinary shares will not be entitled to any dividends, rights,
allotments and/or any other forms of distribution where the entitlement date precedes the
relevant date of allotment and issuance of the new ordinary shares.
(vi) Adjustment in the exercise price and/or number of Warrants
The exercise price and/or the number of Warrants held by each Warrant holder may from time
to time be adjusted by the Directors in consultation with an approved adviser and certified by
the auditors at any time during the tenure of the Warrants.
As at 30 June 2023, total number of Warrants that remains unexercised were 54,805,755.
(iii)	Other reserve
Other reserve represents the discount on issuance of shares and the value of which is represented
by the fair value of warrants. The other reserve, in substance, form part of the issued and paid-up
share capital and is presented separately for better understanding.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
125
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
21. BORROWINGS
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Non-current
Term loans (secured) 			 8,178,974 9,272,106
Current			
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				 2,072,180 1,282,896
Bankers' acceptance - unsecured				 7,870,112 4,264,000
- secured				 9,470,097 8,745,048
Revolving credit (unsecured)				 3,000,000 3,000,000
Term loans (secured)				 1,174,228 1,240,121
				 23,586,617 18,532,065
				 31,765,591 27,804,171
Represented By:			
Term loans				 9,353,202 10,512,227
Bank overdrafts				 2,072,180 1,282,896
Bankers' acceptance				 17,340,209 13,009,048
Revolving credit			 3,000,000 3,000,000
				 31,765,591 27,804,171
Maturity Profile of Borrowings:			
On demand or within 1 year				 23,586,617 18,532,065
More than 1 year and less than 5 years				 2,932,440 3,943,236
More than 5 years 			 5,246,534 5,328,870
				 31,765,591 27,804,171
Term loans			
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Term loan 1(¹)				 1,260,781 1,806,561
Term loan 2(¹)				 423,938 593,529
Term loan 3(²) 			 7,668,483 8,112,137
				 9,353,202 10,512,227
Maturity Profile of Term Loans:
Within one year				 1,174,228 1,240,121
More than 1 year and less than 2 years				 1,239,151 1,292,326
More than 2 years and less than 5 years				 1,693,289 2,650,910
More than 5 years 			 5,246,534 5,328,870
				 9,353,202 10,512,227
(¹) Conventional term loan
(²) Islamic term loan		
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
126
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)
Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:
					
2023 2022
					
% %
Bank overdrafts				 BLR* + 1.5 BLR* + 1.5
Bankers' acceptance				 3.41 to 6.50 4.02 to 4.50
Revolving credit				 4.85 4.00
Term loans:
- Conventional				 BLR* - 1.5 BLR* - 1.5
- Islamic		 		 BFR# - 1.25 BFR# - 1.25
* BLR - Base Lending Rate
# BFR - Base Financing Rate
Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-
(i) land and buildings of the Group as disclosed in Notes 9 and 11;
(ii) corporate guarantee by the Company; and
(iii) proceeds from certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 1,491,888 1,507,883
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7) 			 (14,703) (15,995)
At end of the financial year 			 1,477,185 1,491,888
Presented before appropriate offsetting:
- Deferred tax assets				 (864,200) (4,040,541)
- Deferred tax liabilities 			 2,341,385 5,532,429
				 1,477,185 1,491,888
This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as
follows:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Difference between net carrying amount of property,
 plant and equipment and its tax base				 – 3,082,241
Difference between net carrying amount of
 right-of-use assets and lease liabilities				 – 70,000
Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment			 2,341,385 2,380,188
				 2,341,385 5,532,429
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
127
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (cont’d)
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Deferred Tax Assets:
Excess of tax base between the net carrying amount of
 property, plant and equipment				 (118,800) –
Unutilised tax losses				 – (54,668)
Unabsorbed capital allowance				 – (3,888,173)
Other deductible temporary differences*				 (745,400) (97,700)
				 (864,200) (4,040,541)
				 1,477,185 1,491,888
* Comprised of allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and impairment loss on trade
receivables.
The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the
financial statements are as follows:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 37,679,744 26,302,193
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 24,371,700 757,200
Other deductible temporary differences 			 8,778,800 3,057,100
				 70,830,244 30,116,493
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
128
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
23.	LEASE LIABILITIES
			 Hostel Factory Motor
			Rental Rental	Vehicles Total
			RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Minimum Lease Payables
Within 1 year		 48,600 90,000 140,353 278,953
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		 – 90,000 140,353 230,353
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		 – 45,000 297,386 342,386
Less: Future finance		 48,600 225,000 578,092 851,692
lease charges (448) (6,215) (140,748) (147,411)
Present Value of Lease Payables		 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
Present Value of Lease Payables
Within 1 year		 48,152 86,088 92,102 226,342
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		 – 87,982 99,012 186,994
More than 2 years but less				
than 5 years – 44,715 246,230 290,945
Present Value of Lease Payables 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
Analysed As:
Current portion		 48,152 86,088 92,102 226,342
Non-current portion – 132,697 345,242 477,939
		 48,152 218,785 437,344 704,281
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
129
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
23.	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)
			 Hostel Factory Motor
			Rental Rental	Vehicles Total
			RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Minimum Lease Payables
Within 1 year		 148,400 90,000 54,283 292,683
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		 48,600 90,000 50,588 189,188
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		 – 135,000 50,588 185,588
More than 5 years – – 54,803 54,803
			 197,000 315,000 210,262 722,262
Less: Future finance lease charges (3,210) (11,982) (43,923) (59,115)
Present Value of Lease Payables		 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
Present Value of Lease Payables
Within 1 year		 145,638 84,233 43,189 273,060
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		 48,152 86,087 39,940 174,179
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		 – 132,698 39,940 172,638
More than 5 years – – 43,270 43,270
Present Value of Lease Payables 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
Analysed As:
Current portion		 145,638 84,233 43,189 273,060
Non-current portion 48,152 218,785 123,150 390,087
		 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
The range of effective interest rates per annum at the reporting date for the lease liabilities are as follows:
				 Hostel Factory Motor
				 Rental Rental	Vehicles
				% % %
Group
2023
Effective interest rate			 2.25 2.20 4.96 - 6.38
2022
Effective interest rate			 2.25 2.20 4.68 - 4.96
24. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days
(2022: 30 to 90 days).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
130
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
25.	OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Note RM RM RM RM
Sundry payables (i) 3,551,446 5,020,346 54,081 179,498
Accruals		 5,836,451 4,018,329 73,502 75,874
Provision for dismantling
 and relocation cost (ii) 360,000 – – –
Provision for employee				
 termination benefits (iii) 900,000 306,210 – –
Retirement benefits (iv) 1,771,797 2,720,305 – –
Amounts due to Directors (v) 4,295,838 8,603,808 – –
Amounts due to related parties (v) 893,665 605,056 – –
		 17,609,197 21,274,054 127,583 255,372
(i) Sundry payables
Included in other payables of the Group is security deposits received from customers of RM150,000
(2022: RM150,000).
(ii) Provision for dismantling and relocation cost
As disclosed in Notes Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, the Group recognised a provision of
RM360,000 for dismantling and relocation and are based on management’s estimation.
Movement in provision for dismantling and relocation cost is as below:
						
Group
						
2023
						
RM
At beginning of the financial year					 –
Additions 				 360,000
At end of the financial year 				 360,000
(iii) Provision for employee termination benefits
As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, the Group recognised a provision of RM900,000 for
employee termination benefits and are based on a detailed plan agreed between the management
and employees. The payments are expected to be made in July 2023 and August 2023.
In the previous financial year, two of its subsidiaries, Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd. and Cinta
Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd. have announced to cease its operations for manufacturing of biscuit and trading
of manufactured biscuit, respectively. As such, the Group has recognised a provision of RM306,210
for employee termination benefits and is based on a detailed plan agreed between the management
and employees. The payments have been made in July 2022.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
131
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
25.	OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)
(iii) Provision for employee termination benefits
Movement of provision for employee termination benefits is as below:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
At beginning of the financial year				 306,210 –
Additions				 900,000 306,210
Payment during the financial year 			 (306,210) –
At end of the financial year 			 900,000 306,210
(iv) Retirement benefits
A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit
plans that provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for
employees.
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations
At beginning of the financial year				 2,720,305 2,601,218
Current service cost and interest				 283,153 313,730
Past service cost				 (901,463) (285,436)
Other cost				 (84,366) –
Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income		 (335,128) –
Exchange differences 			 89,296 90,793
At end of the financial year 			 1,771,797 2,720,305
(Income)/expense recognised in profit or loss
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Current service cost and interest				 283,153 313,730
Past service cost				 (901,463) (285,436)
Other cost 			 (84,366) –
				 (702,676) 28,294
The (income)/expense is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive
income:-
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Staff costs 			 (702,676) 28,294
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
132
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
25.	OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)
(iv) Retirement benefits (cont’d)
Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
At beginning of the year				 706,800 706,800
Recognised during the year 			 335,128 –
At end of the year 			 1,041,928 706,800
Actuarial assumptions
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Discount rate 6.79 7.22
Salary increment rate 7.0 7.0
Disability rate 5.0 5.0
Resignation rate
20 - 30				 15% up to 15% up to
31 - 40 				 the age of the age of
41 - 45				 30 and 30 and
46 - 50				 decrease decrease
51 - 54				 linearly to linearly to
> 55 					 0% at 0% at
					
retirement retirement
					
age age
(v) These amounts are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest free advances which are repayable on
demand.
26. REBATE LIABILITY
Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset
against amounts payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.
27. DIVIDEND
					 2022
		Paid on RM
Recognised during the financial year:
First interim single tier dividend for the
 financial year ended 30 June 2021
 of RM0.002 per ordinary share 9 November 2021 986,505
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
133
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and to
the Company if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or
exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or
where the Group and the Company and the party are subject to common control or common significant
influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties and
key management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the Company
have substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.
Related party balances and transactions
The related party balances are shown in Notes 17 and 25 respectively. The related party transactions of
the Group and of the Company are shown below:
		 Company
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Transactions with subsidiaries:
Advances from				 132,400 36,605
(Advance to)/repayment from 			 (15,712,319) 1,385,868
Transactions with related parties:		
Deposit paid for lease of office				 – 3,600
Short-term lease of office				 93,600 68,400
Purchase of goods				 41,867 33,272
Rental income				 (36,000) (36,000)
Transportation charges				 5,150,087 4,771,924
Travelling expenses				 59,840 23,524
Upkeep of motor vehicles				 76,773 95,961
Water charges				 312 156
Warehouse management				 272,000 254,400
Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The
key management personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as
certain senior management personnel of the Group and of the Company.
The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to the Directors during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 6(b).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
134
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)
Compensation of key management personnel (cont’d)
The remuneration of other members of key management personnel of the Group and the Company
during the financial year are as follows:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Key management personnel:
Salaries and other emoluments				 1,075,102 801,669
Contributions to defined contribution plan				 43,056 30,708
Social security contributions 			 23,604 15,948
					 1,141,762 848,325
29. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Authorised and contracted for:		
Acquisition of machineries 			 368,000 2,267,000
30.	OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and
distribution of canned food, drinks and biscuits. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief Operating
Decision Maker) reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis.
Accordingly, information by operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not
presented.
Geographical area
Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and
assets respectively are as follows:
Group Company
External revenue Non-current assets*
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		RM RM RM RM
Malaysia		 65,943,221 68,458,551 54,253,834 78,048,550
USA			 70,370,989 71,804,940 – –
Europe		 19,730,196 14,211,281 – –
Asia (excludes Malaysia) 6,363,684 6,636,255 16,105,013 14,970,951
		 162,408,090 161,111,027 70,358,847 93,019,501
* Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred
tax assets.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
135
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
30.	OPERATING SEGMENTS (cont’d)
Major customer information
The Group has one (2022: one) customer which contributed RM23,754,284 (2022: RM28,275,861),
representing 15% (2022: 18%) of the Group’s revenue during the financial year.
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of Financial Instruments
The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets (excluding prepayments) and financial liabilities are all
categorised as amortised costs.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate
risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses
on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the
Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group. Management continually monitors the
Group’s risk management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between risk and control is
achieved. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the market
conditions and the Group’s activities.
There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it
manages and measures the risk.
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the
individual characteristics of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
from loans and advances to subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior
years.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing
basis. Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business
partners with good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit
over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full)
when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines
that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows
to repay the amounts subject to write-off.
Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
136
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As the Group does not hold any collateral other than as disclosed in Note 25(i), the maximum
exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of the financial assets as at the end
of the reporting period.
Credit risk concentration profile
The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on
an ongoing basis.
The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 2 customers
(2022: 5 customers) constituting 17% (2022: 36%) of gross trade receivables of the Group.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate
actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to ensure
that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable values.
The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at lifetime
expected credit losses as disclosed in Note 3(p)(i). The Group assesses impairment of trade
receivables on individual and collective basis.
For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can be
individually managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has reasonable
and supportable information available to assess the impairment individually.
For collective assessment, the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision
matrix for collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit risk
characteristics, the number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have similar risk
characteristics.
Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss
experienced over the prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information on
macroeconomic factors. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic conditions
during the period over which the historical data has been collected, (b) current economic conditions
and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
137
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Impairment losses
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables as at 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022:
				 Gross
				 carrying	Loss Net
				 amount allowances balance
				RM RM RM
Group
2023
Not past due 		 25,159,340 (79,675) 25,079,665
Past due:
- Less than 30 days			 2,195,232 (73,835) 2,121,397
- 31 to 90 days			 906,630 (228,533) 678,097
Credit impaired:
- More than 90 days			 968,942 (178,375) 790,567
				 4,070,804 (480,743) 3,590,061
Credit impaired:
- Individually impaired		 919,588 (919,588) –
			 30,149,732 (1,480,006) 28,669,726
2022
Not past due 		 19,958,039 (234,924) 19,723,115
Past due:
- Less than 30 days			 5,733,277 (182,750) 5,550,527
- 31 to 90 days			 5,894,249 (311,826) 5,582,423
Credit impaired:
- More than 90 days			 4,284,350 (862,701) 3,421,649
				 15,911,876 (1,357,277) 14,554,599
Credit impaired:
- Individually impaired			 1,198,717 (1,067,636) 131,081
		 		 37,068,632 (2,659,837) 34,408,795
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with good
payment records and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
138
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
Impairment losses (cont’d)
Receivables that are past due but not impaired
The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as there
have been no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still considered
recoverable. These trade receivables relate mostly to customers with slower repayment patterns,
for whom there is no history of default. The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit
enhancement over these balances.
Credit impaired
Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to have
higher credit risk, are monitored individually.
Trade receivables that are collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These receivables are not
secured by any collateral or credit enhancements.
Inter-company loans and advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors
the abilities of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from
subsidiaries are represented by their carrying amounts in the notes to the financial statements.
Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit
enhancements.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand,
expected credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded
at the reporting date.
Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The
Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial
positions deteriorate significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of
subsidiaries’ loans and advances when they are payable, the Company considers the subsidiaries’
loans or advances to be credit impaired when subsidiaries are unlikely to repay the loan or advances
to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid resources when the loans are demanded.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
139
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
Inter-company loans and advances (cont’d)
The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using
internal information available.
As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk
given the subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high
probability of default for the loans and advances to subsidiaries. As a result, the Company has
provided allowances for ECLs on amounts due from subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 17.
Other receivables
Expected credit loss of other receivables is determined individually after considering the financial
strength of the other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure
to credit risks is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The
Group has provided allowances for expected credit losses on certain of these amounts as disclosed
in Note 16.
Credit risk on sundry deposits mainly arose from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities
deposit for rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services
and thus have low credit risks. As at end of the reporting period, no allowance for impairment is
necessary in respect of these deposits.
The Group determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk on certain deposits paid
to supplier as a partial advance payment to purchase plant and machineries. Given the Group’s
financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high probability of default for
remaining payment to supplier. As a result, the Group has provided allowances for impairment in
respect of these deposits as disclosed in Note 16.
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting date,
the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements
of financial position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss
allowance is not necessary.
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted
to subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and
repayments made by the subsidiaries.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM25,727,633 (2022:
RM27,804,171) representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the
reporting period. The financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’
banking facilities.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
140
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
financial positions deteriorate significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be
credit impaired when:-
- The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
- The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using
internal information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the probability
of the financial guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as the borrowings of
the subsidiaries are adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 21. Should the subsidiaries
defaulted any loan repayments, the proceeds from the realisation of assets will be able to satisfy
the outstanding debts.
(b) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of the Group entities, which is RM as disclosed in
Note 2(c). The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), Euro
(“EUR”) and Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”).
The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign
purchases as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group
entities are kept to an acceptable level.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional
currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period is
as follows:
			 Denominated in
			 USD EUR IDR Total
			RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Trade receivables		 11,744,651 – – 11,744,651
Other receivables		 259,841 – – 259,841
Cash and bank balances		 1,445,567 – – 1,445,567
Trade payables		 (7,820,158) – – (7,820,158)
Other payables		 (16,390) – – (16,390)
Borrowings (9,470,097) – – (9,470,097)
		 (3,856,586) – – (3,856,586)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
141
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)
			 Denominated in
			 USD EUR IDR Total
			RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Trade receivables		 14,250,304 – – 14,250,304
Other receivables		 763,963 108,933 39,479 912,375
Cash and bank balances		 1,729,389 – – 1,729,389
Trade payables		 (8,942,129) – – (8,942,129)
Borrowings (8,745,048) – – (8,745,048)
		 (943,521) 108,933 39,479 (795,109)
The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign
currencies as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:
		 Group
		 Increase/(Decrease)
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:		
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			 146,550 35,854
- Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%)			 (146,550) (35,854)
RM/EUR - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			 – (4,139)
- Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%)			 – 4,139
RM/IDR - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			 – (1,500)
- Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%) 		 – 1,500
(c) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk
arises mainly from interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective
interest rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed
in Notes 18, 21 and 23 respectively.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
142
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(c) Interest rate risk (cont’d)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset:
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				 936,589 900,000
Financial liabilities:		
- Lease liabilities				 (704,281) (663,147)
- Bankers’ acceptance				 (17,340,209) (13,009,048)
- Revolving credit 			 (3,000,000) (3,000,000)
					 (20,107,901) (15,772,195)
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Floating rate instruments
Financial liabilities:
- Bank overdrafts				 (2,072,180) (1,282,896)
- Term loans			 (9,353,202) (10,512,227)
					 (11,425,382) (11,795,123)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably
possible change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables
held constant:-
		 Group
		 Increase/(Decrease)
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:
Increase of 50 basis points (2022: 50 basis points)			 (43,416) (44,821)
Decrease of 50 basis points (2022: 50 basis points) 		 43,416 44,821
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
143
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(d)	Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations associated with
financial liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of
financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s objective are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and
flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and
the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. In addition, the Group and the
Company maintain sufficient levels of cash and available banking facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet
their working capital requirements.
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting
period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating,
based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):
		 Contractual Cash Flows
			On demand
		 Carrying or within			
More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Group
Bank overdrafts 2,072,180 2,072,180 – – – 2,072,180
Bankers’ acceptance 17,340,209 17,340,209 – – – 17,340,209
Revolving credit 3,000,000 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000
Term loans 9,353,202 1,660,716 1,660,716 2,703,667 6,409,827 12,434,926
Trade payables 20,010,259 20,010,259 – – – 20,010,259
Other payables^ 15,837,400 15,837,400 – – – 15,837,400
Lease liabilities 704,281 278,953 230,353 342,386 – 851,692
68,317,531 60,199,717 1,891,069 3,046,053 6,409,827 71,546,666
Company
Financial guarantee* – 25,727,633 – – – 25,727,633
Other payables 127,583 127,583 – – – 127,583
Amounts due to subsidiaries 3,336,323 3,336,323 – – – 3,336,323
3,463,906 29,191,539 – – – 29,191,539
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
144
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
(d)	Liquidity risk
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting
period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating,
based on the rates at the end of the reporting period): (cont’d)
		 Contractual Cash Flows
			On demand
		 Carrying or within			
More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022
Group
Bank overdrafts 1,282,896 1,282,896 – – – 1,282,896
Bankers’ acceptance 13,009,048 13,009,048 – – – 13,009,048
Revolving credit 3,000,000 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000
Term loans 10,512,227 1,660,716 1,660,716 3,475,379 6,220,316 13,017,127
Trade payables 19,823,659 19,823,659 – – – 19,823,659
Other payables^ 18,553,749 18,553,749 – – – 18,553,749
Lease liabilities 663,147 292,683 189,188 185,588 54,803 722,262
66,844,726 57,622,751 1,849,904 3,660,967 6,275,119 69,408,741
Company
Financial guarantee* – 27,804,171 – – – 27,804,171
Other payables 255,372 255,372 – – – 255,372
Amounts due to subsidiaries 2,999,923 2,999,923 – – – 2,999,923
3,255,295 31,059,466 – – – 31,059,466
^ Excluded for retirement benefits.
* This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
145
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
32. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION
Financial instruments at fair value
As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any
valuation method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.
Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value
Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable
approximation of fair values
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
term borrowings approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
instruments and insignificant impact of discounting.
The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be
re-priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date.
33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-
equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances and fixed deposits with
licensed banks whilst total capital is equity attributable to Owners of the Company.
The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022, which are within the Group’s objective of capital
management are as follows:
		 Group
				
2023 2022
				
RM RM
Borrowings (Note 21)				 31,765,591 27,804,171
Lease liabilities (Note 23) 			 704,281 663,147
					 32,469,872 28,467,318
Less:			
- Cash and bank balances				 (17,427,480) (7,890,165)
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				 (936,589) (900,000)
					 (18,364,069) (8,790,165)
Total net debts 			 14,105,803 19,677,153
Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company 		 103,562,249 129,714,375
Debt to equity ratio 			 0.14 0.15
The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external
borrowings.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
146
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the
following:
(i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., is required to comply with the
maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing
ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible networth (“TNW”),
of which TNW is defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties;
and
(ii) Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times.
For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total
networth (less intangibles and pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding
company. Total bank borrowings encompasses the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest
free.
As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as
mentioned above.
34. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 2 June 2023, the Company has announced to Bursa Malaysia, in conjunction with its business
rationalisation plan, the Company has undertaken certain measures to reduce its overall business
operating cost as well as improve its financial position moving forward. In view of the plan, the Bukit
Minyak Production Facility will be decommissioned, in which one of the subsidiary of the Company
operates the facility for the manufacturing of canned food and drinks.
The decommissioning exercise is estimated to commence in end of July 2023 and is expected to be
completed by first quarter of financial year ending 30 June 2024. As part of its business rationalisation
plan, the production facilities will be downsized and certain machineries and manpower will be
reallocated from Bukit Minyak Production Facility to the Group’s existing production facilities at Batu
Pahat, Johor and Jawa Timur, Indonesia, of which the production facility is operated by its subsidiaries.
The decommissioning exercise only applies to the factory whereas the warehouse located within the
said production facility will be maintained for inventory storage purpose. The Company also considers
outsourcing certain production to third parties to maintain the minimum headcount in its production
facilities.
Following the decommissioning of the Bukit Minyak Production Facility, downsizing and consolidation of
the production facilities, the Group has recognised a provision for dismantling and relocation cost (Note
25(ii)), provision for employee termination benefits (Note 25(iii)), impairment loss on property, plant and
equipment (Note 9), allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories (Note 14) and other relevant
expenses during the financial year ended 30 June 2023. Furthermore, the Company has recognised an
impairment loss on its cost of investment in subsidiaries (Note 12).
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
147
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation:
					
As previously As
					 reported reclassified
					
RM RM
2022
Group
Statements of Comprehensive Income
Other operating expenses				 (26,685,815) –
Other expenses				 (830,341) (27,253,246)
Impairment loss on financial assets				 – (106,827)
Impairment loss on non-financial assets				 – (156,083)
Statements of Cash Flows:
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Changes in working capital:
 Trade and other payables				 4,226,312 (53,698)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities		
Advance from Directors				 – 4,280,010
Company
Statement of Comprehensive Income:
Other operating expenses				 (252,177) –
Other expenses				 (5,939,445) (252,177)
Impairment loss on financial assets				 – (1,564,836)
Impairment loss on non-financial assets 			 – (4,374,609)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
Annual Report 2023
148
Location/
(Registered owner)
Description
(Lot/Title No)
Tenure
(Approx. age
of building) Land area
Date of
Acquisition/
*Revaluation
Net book
Value
30/6/2023
RM’000
Plot 125,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial Land
with factory
60 years with
35 years
remaining
(20 years)
6.005 acre *30 August 2012 12,280
Plot 126,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial land
with warehouse
60 years with
46 years
remaining
(10 years)
1.740 acre *30 August 2012 7,206
JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,
Beji, Pasuruan, Jawa Timur,
Indonesia.
Industrial Land
with factory
50 years with
21 years
remaining
(26 years)
38,218
sq. meters
*30 November 2012 13,019
No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,
Taman Industri Alam Jaya,
Bandar Puncak Alam,
42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.
3 Storey
Semi-Detached
Factory
Leasehold 2,024
sq. meters
10 August 2016 4,229
22, Jalan Perniagaan
Seri Tambun,
Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Pulau Pinang.
3 Storey terrace
Shop Office
Freehold 149
sq. meters
5 August 2016 1,277
No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
Sungai Suloh,
Mukim Minyak Beku,
83000 Batu Pahat, Johor
Industrial land
with Factory
cum office
Freehold 2.305
hectares
26 September 2019 16,130
LIST OF
PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
*I/We (Full Name),
bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
of (Full Address)
being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby
appoint:-
First Proxy “A”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
*and/or
Second Proxy “B”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
100%
or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on
*my/ our behalf at the Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at the Kuala Lumpur Golf
& Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan on Monday, 27 November
2023 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
(Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how
a vote is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)
* Strike out whichever is inapplicable
No. Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 together with the Reports
of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
For Against
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors
amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30
June 2024 and thereafter. (Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 27
November 2023 until the next AGM of the Company. (Resolution 2)
4(a). To re-elect, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the
Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.
(Resolution 3)
4(b). To re-elect Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause
115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.
(Resolution 4)
5. To re-elect Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of
the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered herself for re-election.
(Resolution 5)
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until
the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
(Resolution 6)
Special Business
7. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016. (Resolution 7)
8. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature. (Resolution 8)
9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares.
(Resolution 9)
10. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director
(Resolution 10)
Signed this day of , 2023
Signature of Member Common Seal to be affixed here if
		 Member is a corporation, if applicable
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
[Registration No. 199301027926 (282664K)]
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of Ordinary Shares held
CDS Account No.
Telephone No.
Email Address
FORM OF PROXY
✄
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Ninth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 17 November
2023 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his stead.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings
to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed
to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate,
speak and vote at the Meeting
3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized
in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under
the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed
or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar,
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you
from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person at the 29th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so,
provided a notice of termination of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24)
hours before the commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a
formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial
Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
✄
The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan.
Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5, 14100
Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Penang, Malaysia.
Tel: (+6) 04-5088 288 Fax: (+6) 04-5088 566/7
E-mail: support@rexmalaysia.com
www.rexmalaysia.com
Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5, 14100
Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Penang, Malaysia.
Tel: (+6) 04-5088 288 Fax: (+6) 04-5088 566/7
E-mail: support@rexmalaysia.com
www.rexmalaysia.com
