CONTENTS
Notice of Annual General Meeting
2
Administrative Guide
8
Corporate Information
11
Profile of Directors
12
Profile of Key Senior Management
15
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
16
Sustainability Statement
32
Audit Committee Report
37
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for
preparing the Financial Statements
40
Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control
41
Additional Compliance Information
43
Management Discussion and Analysis
44
Analysis of Shareholdings
48
Thirty Largest Shareholders
49
Corporate Structure
50
Directors’ Report
51
Statement by Directors
55
Statutory Declaration
55
Independent Auditors’ Report
56
Statements of Comprehensive Income
60
Statements of Financial Position
61
Statements of Changes in Equity
62
Statements of Cash Flows
64
Notes to the Financial
Statements
68
Properties
126
Form of Proxy
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
2
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad will be held at
Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf & Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
on Tuesday, 29 November 2022 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the following purposes:-
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022
together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to the
Note No. 7)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors
amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30
June 2023 and thereafter.
(Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 30
November 2022 until the next AGM of the Company.
(Resolution 2)
4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause
115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-
election:-
(a) Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain; and
(b) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun
(Resolution 3)
(Resolution 4)
5. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause
114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-
election:-
(a) Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim; and
(b) Kajendra Pathmanathan
(Resolution 5)
(Resolution 6)
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until
the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
(Resolution 7)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following Ordinary
Resolutions:-
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
- AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and
are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to issue and allot shares in the capital of
the Company from time to time at such price and upon such terms and conditions,
for such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in
their absolute discretion deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total
number of issued shares of the Company for the time being;
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of the
Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory
pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares of the
Company ranking equally to the existing issued shares arising from any issuance of
new shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act;
AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the
listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa Securities; AND
FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company.”
(Resolution 8)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDER MANDATE FOR RECURRENT
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
“THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to
enter into and to give effect to the category of the recurrent related party transactions
of a revenue or trading nature from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in
Section 2.5 of the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022, provided
that such transactions are:-
(i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;
(ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;
(iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms which
are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to
the public; and
(iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,
(the “Mandate”);
AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which time it will lapse,
unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall not
extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the
Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
Company in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such acts
and things (including executing all such documents as may be required), as they may
consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
(Resolution 9)
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
4
9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS OWN
SHARES
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing
Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations and guidelines for the
time being in force and the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, approval be and is hereby given to the Company to purchase such number
of ordinary shares as may be determined by the Directors of the Company from time
to time through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may
deem fit, necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-
(a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by the
Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the
total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on Bursa Securities as
at the point of purchase; and
(b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing
its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits of the Company
based on the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest unaudited
financial statements (where applicable) available at the time of the purchase.
THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at which time it will lapse,
unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed,
either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
date is required by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
Company in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
(Resolution 10)
AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own ordinary
shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the ordinary shares
purchased in their absolute discretion in the following manners:-
(a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or
(b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution as dividend
to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa Securities and/or
transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any) and/or transfer as purchase
consideration;
(c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or
in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders made
pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any other relevant
authority for the time being in force.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts, deeds
and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the
Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority with
full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or amendments
as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all
such acts and things as they may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the
Company.”
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
5
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
10. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
-RETENTIONOFTANSRIDATO’MOHDIBRAHIMBINMOHDZAINASANINDEPENDENT
DIRECTOR
“THAT Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain who has served the Board as an
Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years since 30
June 2014 be and is hereby retained as an Independent Director of the Company.”
(Resolution 11)
11. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board of Directors
CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689/ SSM PC NO.: 201908002648)
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
Company Secretaries
Dated: 31 October 2022
Explanatory Notes to Special Business:
1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016
The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Seventh AGM of the Company
held on 29 November 2021 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.
The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot shares
pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a
general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%)
of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being (hereinafter referred to as the “10% General
Mandate”).
The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities, including but not
limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment projects, working capital and/or
acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons at any time as the Directors may deem fit,
without incurring any further cost to convene a separate general meeting to approve such authority. This authority,
unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the
Company.
Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of the Company,
shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which rank equally to the existing
issued shares in the Company or other securities.
The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under the authority
to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer the new shares to be issued equally to
all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.
2.	Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or
Trading Nature
The proposed Resolution 9 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent
related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations,
subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms which are not
more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not to the detriment of the
minority shareholders of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022 for more information.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
6
Explanatory Notes to Special Business: (Cont’d)
3.	Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares
The proposed Resolution 10 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%)
of the total number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022 for more information.
4. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain (“Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim”) was appointed as an Independent Director of the
Company on 30 June 2014 and has served the Board for a cumulative of nine (9) years in this capacity. The Board
of Directors of the Company through the Nomination Committee, after having assessed the independence of Tan Sri
Dato’ Ibrahim, regards him to be independent based amongst others, the following justifications, and recommends
that Tan Sri Ibrahim be retained as an Independent Director of the Company subject to the approval from the
shareholders of the Company as described in the Guidance to Practice 5.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance:-
(a) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has fulfilled the definition of an independent director as set out under Paragraph 1.01 of
the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
• is not an executive director of the Company or any related corporation of the Company (each corporation
is referred to as “said Corporation”);
• has not been within the last 2 years and is not an officer (except as a non-executive director) of the
said Corporation [“officer” includes a director, secretary, employee, receiver who is also a manager not
appointed by the Court, and liquidator not appointed by the Court or creditors];
• is not a major shareholder of the said Corporation;
• is not a family member of any executive director, officer or major shareholder of the said Corporation;
• is not acting as a nominee or representative of any executive director or major shareholder of the said
Corporation;
• has not been engaged as an adviser by the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed
by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director (except as and Independent Director) or major
shareholder, as the case may be, of firm or corporation which provides professional advisory services to
the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by the Exchange; or
• has not engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by
the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director or major shareholder, as the case may be, of a firm or
corporation (other than subsidiaries of the Company) which has engaged in any transaction with the said
Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by the Exchange;
(b) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has not been involved in any business or other relationship which could hinder the exercise
of independent judgement, objectivity or his ability to act in the best interests of the Company;
(c) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has no potential conflict of interest, whether business or non-business related with the
Company;
(d) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has not established or maintained any significant personal or social relationship, whether
direct or indirect, with the Group Managing Director, major shareholders or management of the Company
(including their family members) other than normal engagements and interactions on a professional level
consistent with his duties and expected of him to carry out his duties as an independent director; and
(e) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim does not derive any remuneration and other benefits apart from Director’s fees and
benefits that are approved by shareholders.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
7
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Eighth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 18 November
2022 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his stead.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings
to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed
to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate,
speak and vote at the Meeting.
3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized
in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under
the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorized.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or
a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar,
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you
from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person at the 28th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so,
provided a notice of termination of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24)
hours before the commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.
6. Please refer to the Administrative Guide on the Conduct of a Physical General Meeting available for download at
www.rexmalaysia.com/ for further details.
7. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a
formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial
Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
8
ADMINSTRATIVE GUIDE
FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND/OR PROXIES ATTENDING
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“28TH AGM”)
INFORMATION ON 28TH AGM
1. Date, Time, and Venue of 28th AGM
Day & Date : Tuesday, 29 November 2022
Time : 10:00 a.m.
Venue : Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf & Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
2. Entitlement to Attend
Only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as of 18 November 2022 shall be entitled to attend,
participate, speak and vote at the 28th AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote on his/her
behalf in respect of the number of shares registered in his/her name at that mentioned date.
3.	Lodgement of Form of Proxy of 28th AGM
(a) If you are unable to attend the 28th AGM and wish to appoint proxy(ies) to vote on your behalf, you may deposit
your Form of Proxy at the Registered Office of the Company at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan in accordance with
the notes and instructions printed therein, not later than forty-eight (48) hours before the 28th AGM, i.e., latest
by Sunday, 27 November 2022 at 10:00 a.m.
(b)		
If you wish to attend the 28th AGM yourself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy for the 28th AGM. You will
not be allowed to attend the 28th AGM together with a proxy appointed by you. Only one of you is allowed to
attend and enter the 28th AGM venue.
(c)		
If you have submitted your Form of Proxy prior to the 28th AGM and subsequently decided to attend the 28th
AGM yourself, please revoke the appointment of your proxy at the time of registration.
4. Corporate Member
Any corporate member who wishes to appoint a representative instead of a proxy to attend the 28th AGM should
submit the original certificate of appointment under the corporation’s seal to the Company’s Registered Office at
Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan at any time before the time appointed for holding the 28th AGM or to the registration staff on
the meeting day for the Company’s records.
5.	Parking
You may park your vehicle at the allocated visitors’ parking bays.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
9
GUIDANCE FOR ATTENDANCE OF 28th AGM
The Company would be most obliged if all attendees were to take all necessary precautions and preventive measures to
curb the spread of COVID-19, including the wearing of a medical face mask, while attending the 28th AGM.
The Company reserves the right to take any precautionary measures as may be required or recommended by the relevant
authorities from time to time and may also be required to change its 28th AGM arrangements at short notice, if required.
As such, prior to attending the 28th AGM, you are to keep abreast with the latest news and updates on the 28th AGM from
the posting on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx or all announcements as well as all
health and safety measures as released by the relevant authorities to the media from time to time.
Attendees are required to read and adhere to the Administrative Guide issued and published on the Company’s website at
www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx.
1.	Pre-Registration of Attendance
In order to assist the Company in managing the turnout for the 28th AGM and in compliance with the directives
or guidelines on the conduct of physical general meetings, Shareholders/ Corporate Representatives who wish to
attend the 28th AGM in person are required to register ahead of the 28th AGM to allow the Company to facilitate
arrangements in relation to the 28th AGM.
Shareholders/ Corporate Representatives who wish to attend the 28th AGM in person, please provide the following
details by email to info@sshsb.com.my, latest by Friday, 25 November 2022 before the 28th AGM:-
(a) Shareholder / Body corporate name;
(b) Full name of authorised corporate representative;
(c) Body corporate no. / Identity card no./ Passport no.;
(d) CDS account number; and
(e) Mobile phone number of individual attending.
2. On-the-Day Registration for the 28th AGM
(a) Notwithstanding the pre-registration as highlighted above, all Shareholders/Proxies/Corporate Representatives
are still required to physically register their attendance for the 28th AGM on the day of the 28th AGM. Registration
will start at 9:00 a.m. and end at such time as the Chairman of the meeting may be determined.
(b) Registration will take place at the registration booths located at the entrance to the 28th AGM. Therefore, you
are required to queue accordingly.
(c) Please present your original National Registration Identification Card (“NRIC”) or Passport for verification by
the Share Registrar against the pre-registration attendance list. Please ensure that you collect your NRIC or
Passport thereafter.
(d)		
After verification, you are required to write your name and sign on the Attendance List provided by the Share
Registrar. Thereafter, you will be given an identification wristband.
(e) No individual will be allowed to enter the meeting hall without the identification wristband. There will be no
replacement if you lose or misplace the identification wristband.
(f) No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person, even with the original NRIC or Passport of
that person.
(g)		
The registration counter is solely for verification of identity and registration purposes.
(h) All attendees are also required to observe the social distancing rule.
(i) Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration.
If you have any enquiries on other matters, please refer to our staff who will be at hand to assist.
ADMINSTRATIVE
GUIDE
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
10
Circular to Shareholders
1. The Company’s Circular to Shareholders, Notice of the 28th AGM, Form of Proxy, and Administrative Guide are
available on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx and also on Bursa Securities’
website at www.bursamalaysia.com under “Company Announcements”.
2. If you wish to request a printed copy of the Circular to Shareholders, please forward your request by completing the
Requisition Form. A copy of the Circular to Shareholders will be sent to you by ordinary post within four (4) market
days from the date of receipt of the written request. You may also collect the same at the 28th AGM.
ENQUIRY
Should you have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to get in touch with the Share Registrar at their general line +603-
2084 9000 and/or Fax: +603-2094 9940 / 2095 0292 during office hours:
For Pre-Registration:
(1) Mr. Wong Piang Yoong (email: piang.yoong.wong@sshsb.com.my)
(2) Pn. Nurhayati Ang (email: nurhayati.ang@sshsb.com.my)
ADMINSTRATIVE
GUIDE
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
11
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman, Independent
Non-Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive Director,
Group Managing Director
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive Director
Kajendra Pathmanathan
Non-Independent Executive Director
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Tai Keat Chai
Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Member
Adnan bin Ahmad
Member
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman
Tai Keat Chai
Member
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain
Chairman
Tai Keat Chai
Member
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Chua Siew Chuan (MAICSA 0777689)
SSM PC No.: 201908002648
Yeow Sze Min (MAICSA 7065735)
SSM PC No.: 201908003120
AUDITORS
Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates
PLT (LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)
Chartered Accountants
Unit 3-3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,
Mutiara Damansara,
47810 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone No. : +603-7728 1800
Facsimile No. : +603-7728 9800
SHARE REGISTRAR
Securities Services (Holdings)
Sdn. Bhd. [197701005827 (36869-T)]
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940 /
		 +603-2095 0292
Contact Person : Mr. Wong Piang
		 Yoong
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Berhad [199301017069 (271809-K)]
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
[193401000023 (97141-X)]
Ambank Islamic Berhad
[199401009897 (295576-U)]
SOLICITORS
Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
REGISTERED OFFICE
Plot 126,
Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Penang, Malaysia
Telephone No. : +604-508 8288
Facsimile No. : +604-508 8566
Email Address : support@
		 rexmalaysia.com
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Listed on the Main Market of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 9946
Stock Name : REX
Sector : Consumer
		 Products &
		 Services
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
12
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman
Aged 79 Malaysian Male
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, aged 79, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 30
June 2014. He is the Chairman of the Board, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee and a member of the
Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a graduate from the British Institute of Management and Institute of Marketing, United
Kingdom, and holds a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Ohio in the United States of America.
Upon Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s graduation in 1965, he joined University Technology MARA (formerly known as Institute
of Technology MARA) as a lecturer and headed its school of business and then became its dean of academic. He was
subsequently appointed as a Council Member/Director, a position which he held until October 2006.
Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had served as Chief Executive Officer of Amanah International Finance Berhad,
Amanah Chase Merchant Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Setron
(Malaysia) Berhad, Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries Berhad, Pan Malaysia Industries
Berhad, Pan Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan Malaysia Capital Berhad, Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad and Kawan
Food Berhad, Deputy Chairman of Metrojaya Berhad and Director of K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad and AMMB Holdings
Berhad.
Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim sits on the board of Censof Holdings Berhad, a public company and listed issuer.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic
offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had attended four (4) out of five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June
2022.
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director
Aged 61 Malaysian Male
Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, aged 61, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company and as the Group
Managing Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia with a Business Degree majoring in Accounting. He is
also a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He spent
ten (10) years as Group Manager in the Audit Division of an international public accounting firm from 1985 to 1995.
Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering & Construction Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the General Manager of
the Finance and Corporate Planning Division in 1996 and successfully listed Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went on to restructure and list Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in June 1997. He was later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August 1997. In year 2007,
he, together with his partner, took Safeguards private.
Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad
(“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a Non-Executive Director on 26
February 2009. He was redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August 2009 and continues to hold this position till
present. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
December 2016.
Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any
and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2022.
Mr. Darmendran had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
13
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 37 Malaysian Male
Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, aged 37, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 3 March 2015. Currently,
he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London with a Master of Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering. He worked as
Business Development Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”) before he was appointed to the Board of
KSTB. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Chee in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December
2016.
Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and other than traffic offences, if any
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.
Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 68 Malaysian Male
Mr. Tai Keat Chai, aged 68, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 6 March 2015. He is the
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration
Committee of the Company.
Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He began his career with KPMG
in London and moved on subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur. In 1981, he joined Alliance Investment Bank Berhad for
seven (7) years before venturing into stock-broking, working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd., AA Anthony Securities Sdn. Bhd.
and Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as General Manager, Director and dealer’s representative respectively.
Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in other public companies and listed issuers include Marine & General Berhad, Microlink
Solutions Berhad and HSS Engineers Berhad.
Mr. Tai has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.
Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Aged 72 Malaysian Male
Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, aged 72, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 12 April 2018. He is a
member of the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial Relations. He started his career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan &
Mohamad in 1967. He then joined Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including Head of Human Resource
& Administration and Head of Administration and Regulatory and Premises. He was also the Chairman of Koperasi
Pelaburan Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement on 31 March 2014.
Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December
2016.
Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if
any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2022.
Encik Adnan had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
14
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Non-Independent Executive Director
Aged 62 Malaysian Male
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, aged 62, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 11 October 2022, and
hence, he did not attend any of the Board Meetings held in the financial year. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of Rex
Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company.
Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in Management Programme. He has more than thirty (30) years of experience in the
fast-moving consumer goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and marketing and business re-engineering. Prior to
joining the Group, he had held various senior sales and marketing positions in companies such as Rothmans of Pall Mall
Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad and Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head the
sustainable development division at IRIS Coproration Berhad for five (5) years. He joined the Group in October 2017 as
the Marketing Director prior to assuming his current role as Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex
Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company. Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship in other public
listed companies or listed issuer.
Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any,
and, there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2022.
Kajendra Pathmanathan
Non-Independent Executive Director
Aged 48 Malaysian Male
Mr. Kajendra Pathmanathan, aged 48, a Malaysian, male, is the Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company. He
was first appointed to the Board of the Company on 11 October 2022, and hence, he did not attend any of the Board
Meetings held in the financial year.
Mr. Kajendra holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree and a Bachelor of Law degree, both from The University of Melbourne.
He is also a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Australia and New Zealand. He started his career with
Ernst & Young, Kuala Lumpur in 1999 in the Corporate Recovery & Insolvency department and moved to Ernst & Young,
London in 2008. While with Ernst & Young, he gained a very broad range of experience on a wide variety of clients across
various industries in Asia and Europe. He has extensive experience in leading strategic independent business reviews and
in advising stakeholders on significant restructuring of public and private companies. From 2013 to 2022, he worked with
BRDB Developments Sdn. Bhd. and within BRDB Group of Companies.
Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Kajendra in other public companies is Mieco Chipboard Berhad.
Mr. Kajendra has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if
any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2022.
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
15
Chia Hup Tong
Chief Financial Officer of Rex Industry Berhad
Aged 45 Malaysian Male
Mr. Chia Hup Tong, aged 45, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company on 23
September 2021.
Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He started his career in the audit industry,
where he gained audit and accounting experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan SamudraTimur Berhad, a company providing
services to the oil & gas industry in 2006 as Accountant responsible for overall finance and corporate functions. Prior to
joining the Group, he was a Group Accountant of Safeguards Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charged of the overall
group finance, accounts and compliance for six (6) years. He joined the Company on 1 May 2021 as Finance Manager of
P.T. Rex Canning before was promoted as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.
Chu Seang Ming
General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia
Aged 56 Malaysian Male
Mr. Chu Seang Ming, aged 56, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, a subsidiary
of the Company, on 1 May 1998.
Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration, Marketing from Washington International University and various
certifications, which include Indonesia Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994), FDA/USDA Better Process
Control School, Indonesia (1995), NOAA – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000) and HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia
(2000).
Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food manufacturer based in Perak as a Factory Quality Controller where he
undertook laboratory quality control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a
subsidiary of the Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as its
Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was tasked with establishing and setting up a new processing plant
and operations for the Rex Group in People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods
Ltd. Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of the general management of P.T. Rex Canning.
Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.
Ng Sioh Ching
Senior Plant Manager of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
Aged 47 Malaysian Female
Ms. Ng Sioh Ching, aged 47, a Malaysian, female, was appointed as the Senior Plant Manager of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.,
as subsidiary of the company on 1 July 2021.
Ms. Ng graduated with a Degree in Food Science. She started her career as quality controller in Rex Canning in 2000. She
has 10 years’ experience in quality control for canned food processing. She then undertook operations task and canned
food, beverage and confectionery processing before she was promoted as Senior Plant Manager.
Ms. Ng does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Ms. Ng has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. She has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
16
The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the importance of
practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and to protect and
enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”).
The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to provide an
overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set out in the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3) key principles, under the stewardship
of the Board:-
(a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
(b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
(c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.
This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG Report of the Company
for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”) published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Intended Outcome 1.0
Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership and is
collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.
1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group Managing
Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group with the support of a
senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the operations, issues faced and action
plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast on the conduct, business activities and development
of the Company and to discuss and advise the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term
and long-term business strategies. Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the
objectives to be met and how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are
efficiently and effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s values
and standards.
To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
responsibilities to three (3) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee
(“ARMC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”). The Board Committees assist
the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions and
terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved by the Board.
The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions
deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
17
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.1 (Cont’d)
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the Company during
the FYE 2022, the Board had, amongst others:-
(a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
behaviour;
(b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and monitored their
implementation by the Management;
(c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes strategies
on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;
(d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is being properly
managed;
(e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
(f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to ensure that
the risks are properly managed;
(g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key positions;
(h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with stakeholders; and
(i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive Director
(“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group and to
monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-
(a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for the
Board decisions;
(b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged constructive
discussions and effective contribution from each Director;
(c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;
(d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance practices within
the Group;
(e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely expressed;
(f) chaired the extraordinary general meeting of the Company held on 27 May 2022 and committed to answer
queries from the shareholders;
(g) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and that their
views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and improvement, if any;
(h) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth communication
flow between both parties; and
(i) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability and in any
marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.
1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with clear
accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to ensure a balance of
power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
TheChairmanoftheBoardisprimarilyresponsibleforleadingtheBoardinitscollectiveoversightofManagement
as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has overall responsibilities over the
business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the Board’s policies and
decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in the Company’s Board Charter.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
18
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the RC and a member of ARMC and NC.
The Board takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered its Committees’
composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate governance requirements,
recommendations, and best practices, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim will continue to be part of the Board
Committees. The Board is convinced that the presence of the other members in the Board Committees would
still create a good balance for open and free discussions.
1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, namely Ms.
Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per Section 235(2)(a) of
the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).
The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by a dedicated team of
secretarial personnel.
During the FYE 2022, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities accordingly.
They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the capital market, CG, and
other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory environment through continuous training and
industry updates.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the Board in
discharging their functions and duties.
1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members to reserve their
dates for the meetings. During the FYE 2022, the Management together with the assistance of the Company
Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business days in advance in
accordance with the Company’s Constitution.
Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and accurate
record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the Company Secretaries
to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their review and for them to seek for
clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board or Board Committee meeting.
Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the Board or
Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of the Company to be
made available for inspection.
The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate information to
the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge their duties and
responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting materials are circulated at
least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
19
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 2.0
There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.
There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October 2018 and
includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details the responsibilities
of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management limitations, as well as an outline on
what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles and responsibilities as Board Members. With
this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of the Directors and the Management are clearly set out
in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.
The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
The TOR of the ARMC was approved by the Board on 19 November 2019 for adoption.
The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and matters
deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee meetings and
reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the Board during Board
meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.
The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
Activities of the NC
During the FYE 2022, the NC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-
(i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NC meetings held;
(ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character, experience,
integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a comprehensive
assessment system;
(iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees;
(iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
(v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
(vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring independent
and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
(vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”); and
(viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.
During the FYE 2022, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes of deliberating
on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important matters. During the
Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group and other strategic issues
that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members were invited to attend some of
the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.
The NC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee meetings.
Upon review, the NC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time and effort to
attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2022.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
20
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
2.1 (Cont’d)
The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2022 is set out below:-
Directors Directorship Board ARMC NC RC
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
INED 4/5 4/5 2/2 1/1
Tai Keat Chai INED 5/5 5/5 2/2 1/1
Adnan bin Ahmad INED 5/5 5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Darmendran Kunaretnam Non-
Independent
Executive
Director
5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
Chee Cheng Chun Non-INED 5/5 Not a
member
Not a
member
Not a
member
In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance their
skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.
The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-
• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed by the
MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;
• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their knowledge
on the latest regulatory and business environment; and
• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.
Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education would be
the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to
meet the challenges ahead.
During the FYE 2022, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-
Name of Directors Dates
Description of
Training Programmes
Tai Keat Chai 16 - 17 March 2022 Emotional Quotient Seminar
29 March 2022 Governance Structure Webinar
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam and Mr. Chee
Cheng Chun did not attend any structured training programme during the financial year ended 30 June 2022 but
had continuously kept themselves abreast of the relevant developments in the marketplace through the updates
and briefings by the Company Secretaries such as the 2021 CG Monitor Report released by the Securities
Commission of Malaysia, as well as briefings by the Internal Auditors and External Auditors, communications
with other Directors, and daily work exposures throughout the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
21
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 3.0
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture that
engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered acceptable
behaviour and practice in the Company.
3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-
• Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and
• Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.
Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.
The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a Whistleblowing Policy to facilitate the Company’s employees
and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud, waste of the Company’s
resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.
Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should be made in
good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are substantially true and the
report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will be viewed seriously and if proven may
lead to legal action and/or dismissal.
During the FYE 2022, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
abovementioned communication and feedback channels.
The Board had also adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to ensure the Company’s daily
operations and businesses do not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or benefit.
The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and corruption
pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the 2018 amendment to
prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.
The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
22
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Intended Outcome 4.0
The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic manner to support
its long-term strategy and success.
4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term value.
The Company had established a Sustainable Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing governance
structure in relation to sustainability.
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership
of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group.
Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group MD, who also chairs
the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.
The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the upcoming
financial years as follows:-
(a) To perform studies of what are being practiced by peers in similar industry
(b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from
all relevant departments/functions.
(c) To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
- Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
- Influence on the assessments and decision of stakeholder.
(d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
(e) With reference to data collected from (a) to (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”),
to allow the Group continuously measure and monitor the sustainability performance and adherence to
the sustainability practices and policies.
All sustainability-related activities undertaken by the Company have been disclosed in the Sustainability
Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.
4.2 The Board acknowledges the importance of communicating the Company’s sustainability strategies, priorities,
and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.
The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s sustainability
strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures include a comprehensive
description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and efforts. The complete information of
the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from the Group’s annual report and is accessible from the
corporate website at http://www.rexmalaysia.com/.
4.3 The Board will take part in initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the Group and the
industry. The Board will also take the necessary steps to undertake professional training, development
programs, and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will include climate-related risks
and opportunities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
23
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION
Intended Outcome 5.0
Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account diverse
perspectives and insights.
5.1 The Nomination Committee (“NC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s structure, size, and composition
regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with regard to changes that are deemed necessary.
When recommending to the Board, NC will consider the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity,
time commitment, and diversity, where appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.
During the FYE 2022, the NC assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.
The NC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on competency,
preparedness, and contributions. In enhancing the NC process by the Board, with the recommendation of NC,
a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy had been adopted on 27 May 2022.
5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-INED and three (3) Non-Independent Executive
Director.
The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate a balanced
leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to safeguard the interests of the
Company and its stakeholders.
5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set out in the
Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director may continue to serve
on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify and obtain shareholders’ approval for
his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on the Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.
		
The Company will seek approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin
Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014.
5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
a step-up practice.
5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer greater
depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management level.
		
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of senior
management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven by any age, cultural
background or gender considerations.
At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of both males and female who are equipped
with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business direction on the Group.
5.6		
The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when the need
arises in the future and will not solely rely onrecommendations from existing Board members, Management,
and/or major shareholders.
5.7 The NC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before tabling at the
General Meeting for voting. The information on the appointment and reappointment of directors will be shared
with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
24
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
5.8 The NC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the annual review
of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of each individual Director is
independently assessed.
5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy, the Board practices
non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports the representation of
women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the Company.
		
Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when vacancies
arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary aim of selecting the best
candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.
The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome. Nonetheless, the
Board would ensure at least one (1) female Director is appointed by 1 June 2023.
5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned with the
Company’s objectives:-
(i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior management
will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are identified.
(ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members. In view that
the existing Board comprises majority of the INEDs who have distinguished themselves in their respective
fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives during board deliberation
and decision-making process.
The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome. Nonetheless, the
Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.
Intended Outcome 6.0
Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual Directors.
6.1 During the FYE 2022, the Board, through the NC, had conducted the following annual assessments to determine
the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in the financial year ended
30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”):-
(i) Directors’ self-assessment;
(ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
(iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
(iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
(v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.
Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2022, the NC was satisfied with the performance of
the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
25
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION
Intended Outcome 7.0
The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account the Company’s
desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to drive the Company’s long-
term objectives.
Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.
7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred by the RC
in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Directors or Group MD, Non-Executive Director and
other senior management personnel.
7.2 Currently, the RC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is presently
chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The RC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 18 October 2018.
Intended Outcome 8.0
Stakeholdersareableto assesswhethertheremuneration of Directors and senior managementis commensurate
with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s performance.
8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2022 in the Company and Group
levels respectively, is as follows:-
(i) Company Level
Name of Director
Salaries
other and
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam – – – – –
Total – – – – –
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
– 17,010 – – 1,000
Tai Keat Chai – 24,000 – – 1,500
Adnan bin Ahmad – 12,600 – – 1,500
Chee Cheng Chun – 12,600 – – 1,500
Total – 66,210 – – 5,500
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
26
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
8.1 (Cont’d)
(ii) Group Level
Name of Director
Salaries
other and
emoluments
(RM)
Directors’
Fees
(RM)
Statutory
Contribution
(RM)
Benefits-
in-kind
(RM)
Bonus and
allowances
(RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam 808,608 – 54,940 – 95,052
Total 808,608 – 54,940 – 95,052
Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
– 41,310 – – 1,500
Tai Keat Chai – 72,000 – – 2,000
Adnan bin Ahmad – 30,600 – – 2,000
Chee Cheng Chun – 30,600 – – 2,000
Total – 174,510 – – 7,500
8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management staff on
a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the Group taking into consideration the
competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the
privacy of senior management staff.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
Intended Outcome 9.0
There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.
The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The Company’s
financial statements are a reliable source of information.
9.1 During the FYE 2022, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman of the Board
is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the Board’s
review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.
9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may arise when
a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and preparation of
the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies and Procedures to Assess
the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require a former key audit partner of the
Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year cooling-off period before being appointed as
a member of the ARMC.
During the FYE 2022, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to uphold the
utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit partner as a member of
the ARMC or Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
27
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of
External Auditors’ that sets out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability,
objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.
In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has considered the
following:-
(a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation to the
audit;
(b) Persons assigned to the audit;
(c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
(d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely
manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
(e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of fees; and
(f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been, independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional
and regulatory requirements.
The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective and independent
to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board has in turn recommended the same for
shareholders’ approval at the Twenty-Eighth (“28th”) AGM of the Company.
9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.
9.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding of the
Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the financial reporting process.
The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and fair view of
the Company’s financial position and performance.
All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous professional
development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and auditing standards,
practices and rules as and when required.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
28
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Intended Outcome 10.0
Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement necessary controls
to pursue their objectives.
The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable future event
or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.
10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify, assess and
monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets by monitoring
the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external auditors and the outsourced internal
auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control processes and procedures
periodically to ensure that the system is viable and robust.
With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk management
and internal control.
10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised the results
of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment process of the Group.
The deliverables included in the internal audit reports had been discussed with the senior management of
the Group. The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus areas
of the Group. The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of the Board and
Management of the Company.
10.3 The Board had on 30 September 2019 approved the renaming of the AC to ARMC, which comprises solely
Independent Directors, to assist the Board in discharging the responsibilities and duties relating to accounting
and reporting practices as well as to monitor the overall risk management framework, the financial reporting
processes, the compliance processes, the performances of external and internal auditors and overseeing the
audit program of the Group.
Intended Outcome 11.0
Companies have an effective governance, risk management and internal control framework and stakeholders
are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.
11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield Corporate
Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable assurance of
adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.
The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of the Company’s
compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further improvement.
During the FYE 2022, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency
and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2022 and that they have the necessary authority
to carry out their work.
The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of the Company
and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is satisfactory and operating
effectively.
11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the internal
audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair their
objectivity and independence.
The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a university
degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The Engagement Partner,
Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk management and corporate
governance advisory.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Intended Outcome 12.0
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding
of each other’s objectives and expectations.
Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its policies on
governance, the environment and social responsibility.
12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication to the investing
public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group are accurate, timely, factual,
informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary, information filed with regulators is in
accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated spokespersons
will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow of information disclosure
to the stakeholders.
The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders through
a variety of communication channels as follows:-
(a) Announcements to Bursa Securities
Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis through
announcements to Bursa Securities.
Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly financial
results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via the Company’s
website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
(b) Annual reports
The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating to
the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for the past
financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
(c) AGM/ general meetings
The AGM/ general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise any issues
pertaining to the Company.
(d) Corporate website
The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company and is
accessible by the public.
(e) Investor relations
Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they have any
comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the Company’s general email
address.
12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated reporting based
on a globally recognised framework.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
30
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)
II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Intended Outcome 13.0
Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and make informed
voting decisions at general meetings.
13.1 The Board together with the management are committed to ensuring that the notice of every AGM of the
Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the meeting. For the 27th AGM,
the company managed to circulate the notice of the AGM at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the
meeting.
The Board is aware that sufficient notice and time given would allow the shareholders to arrange their time
to participate in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their proxies and corporate
representatives for the AGM.
The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable shareholders to
make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.
13.2 During the 27th AGM of the Company held on 29 November 2021, one (1) out of five (5) directors was not able
to attend the AGM due to personal reasons. The other directors together with the Chief Financial Controller,
Company Secretary and External Auditors participated in the 27th AGM to provide meaningful responses to
questions raised by the shareholders.
During the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) held on 27 May 2022, all the board members managed to
participate to engage with the shareholders effectively.
13.3 Given the intense situation with the Covid-19 pandemic and safe distancing requirements imposed by the
Government, which discourages mass gatherings, the Board had conducted the 27th AGM of the Company held
on 29 November 2021 on a fully virtual basis to enable the shareholders of the Company to participate fully in
the proceedings at more than one (1) venue using technology facilities and to exercise their right to speak and
vote at the meeting without the need to be physically present at the venue. Where the shareholders were not
able to participate, they could and had appointed proxies to participate and vote on their behalf.
However, with the relaxation of Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, the EGM held on 27 May 2022 was conducted
physically to encourage face-to-face discussions with shareholders and stakeholders after not being able to
do this for more than 2 years. All necessary precautions were taken to minimise any potential transmission of
Covid-19.
13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform of interaction between the Board, Senior
Management, and the shareholders of the Company. The Board ensures that shareholders are given the
opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.
At every general meeting of the Company, the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer, external
auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide greater responses to all
shareholders’ queries.
The Chairman also has ensured that all questions raised during general meetings would be getting responses
either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The responses would be published on the
corporate website after the general meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)
II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS (CONT’D)
13.5 During the 27th AGM, the Company had appointed SS E Solutions Sdn Bhd. as the service provider of Remote
Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities via the Securities Services e-Portal (“SSeP”). SSeP is an all-in solution
for facilitating RPV at meetings.
At the 27th AGM, the Chairman informed that shareholders may exercise their rights to vote remotely at the
meeting.
The Group Managing Director answered questions posed by shareholders verbally during the meeting and via
email after the meeting ended to ensure effective communication with shareholders at the virtual meeting.
13.6 The Minutes of the 27th AGM held on 29 November 2021 are available on the corporate website at www.
rexmalaysia.com and were published no later than thirty (30) business days after the AGM.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly approved at the
Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 11 October 2022.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
32
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
Acknowledging that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change, the Board of Directors (“Board”) is
pleased to present the Group’s Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“the Statement”), which
has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability
Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
This statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking to embrace
sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.
This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis and we are committed to further it, specifically on the material
sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are also laying out the
action plan to do so in this Statement.
SCOPE
This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-
• Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd
• Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
• Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
• Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd
And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.
Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to:-
• Manufacturing of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Trading / sales of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Trading of manufactured biscuit
Collectively, the above contributed to approximately 45% of the Group’s total revenue. And our reporting period is from 1
July 2021 to 30 June 2022, unless otherwise stated.
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS
Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure in relation
to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is chaired by our Group
Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department i.e.:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of the
ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The Board is ultimately
accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also chairs the SWG, being
tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
33
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (CONT’D)
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As part of
our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that, while running the business
effectively, we are also committed to contribution to the larger community. The 4 Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
Board of
Directors
Audit AND RISK
Management
Committee
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Sustainability
Working Group
Head of Departments:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
Environment
Employees
Supplier Community
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
34
STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
We have identified and prioritised the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these stakeholders
over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters with the respective
stakeholders prioritised, as illustrated below:-
Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Engagement Matters
Shareholders • Annual General Meeting
• Financial statements
• Press releases/announcements
• Dividend
• Return on investment
• Financial performance
• Share performance
Board of Directors • Board meetings
• Annual General Meeting
• Company organised events
• Corporate Governance
• Company business strategy
Employees • Orientation training
• Learning and development programmes
• Employee performance appraisal
• Corporate organised events
• Occupational safety & health
• Human resource management
• Fair employment practices
• Career development opportunities
Government /
Regulators
• Ongoing interactions
• Formal and informal meetings
• Manufacturing issues and policies
• Foods safety issues and policies
• Effluent & waste management
• Water & energy management
• Compliance to applicable laws
• Economic, environmental and
social impacts
Customers • Face-to-face interaction
• Feedback survey
• Manufacturing quality
• Manufacturing capacity
• Research & Development
Suppliers • Interviews
• Evaluations/Re-evaluations
• Face-to-face interaction
• Agreeable contracts
• Terms of payments
• Maintaining partnerships
Local communities • Corporate volunteering programmes
(e.g. community events, knowledge
-sharing initiatives & partnerships with
non-governmental organisations)
• Support towards community development
• Job creation for local communities
• Undertaking business in a responsible
manner
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
35
MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material sustainability
matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a role.
A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not been finalised
for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.
The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the coming financial
years:-
(a) To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.
(b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from all relevant
departments/functions.
(c) To prioritize the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
o Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
o Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
(d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
(e) With reference to data collected from (a) and (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
practices and policies.
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS
Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current efforts in relation to the
Material Sustainability Matters are set out below:-
Economic
A.	Product Quality and Safety
We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our products that are
safe for consumption.
We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such as
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”) and
Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attained the Halal MS
1500:2009 certification.
We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which have
clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the Group’s product
quality and safety.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
36
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (CONT’D)
Environment
A. Effluent and waste management
Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would potentially
end up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the waste water treatment
plant (WWT) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried out on the WWT to cater for the increase
in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater
discharged is within the Department of Environment’s wastewater effluent discharge standards.
B. Energy consumption
Since March 2019, our Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility had switched to natural gas to fuel our boilers.
Benefits included eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the life spans of the
boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in, gas is better insulated
against supply disruptions.
Social
A. Workplace Safety & Health
We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the foundation
of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety and Health Act
(“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FAM”) 1997 are adhered to.
Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are well aware of their
significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated throughout the
Group.
B. Human resource management
Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high calibre
employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent
pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and performance
enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.
For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered to
as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as general public in the form of quality
products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.
C. Contribution to local community
Similar to previous years, as part of good corporate citizenship program, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of
REX’s products which carry the “Love Rex” logo goes to support the various disabled and underprivileged groups in
our society.
Throughout FYE 2022, we continue to support 3 homes for the underprivileged in the Klang Valley while under the
REX CARE program, over 1,000 deserving families throughout the country were provided food baskets.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
37
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”) in
discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting practices as well as
corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as follows, all of
whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s
Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and as recommended by Step Up Practice
9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the Audit Committee comprises solely Independent
Directors:-
Name Designation Directorship
Tai Keat Chai Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the
requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements.
Neither any of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore
Stephens Associates PLT in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any financial interest
in Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
2. MEETING ATTENDANCE
The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2022. The details of the attendance of the respective ARMC
members are as follows:-
Name No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai 5 of 5
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 4 of 5
Adnan bin Ahmad 5 of 5
* The Meetings were held on 17 August 2021, 8 October 2021, 29 November 2021, 28 January 2022 and 27 May
2022.
The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2022, wherein the
ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2022, which was as required in the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC
whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External Auditors should be conducted annually.
3. TOR
The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
38
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC
During the FYE 2022, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties, functions and
responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-
Financial performance and reporting
(a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial quarters
ended 30 June 2021, 30 September 2021, 31 December 2021 and 31 March 2022, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval.
(b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of the Group
on quarterly basis.
(c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021 (“FYE 2021”) to
ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, and recommended the same to the
Board for approval.
External audit
(a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
personnel.
(b) Received the ARMC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2021, covering matters
to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.
(c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2022 prepared by the External
Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit matters and areas of audit
emphasis and accounting standard updates.
(d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2022, and recommended the same to the
Board for approval.
(e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-
• Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
• Review of component auditors’ working papers.
(f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2022 vide a
formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review and being satisfied
with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the Board to recommend to the
shareholders for approval.
(g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
Internal audit
(a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to those
recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were taken and
recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.
(b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit functions vide
a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its work.
(c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2022 as prepared by the Internal Auditors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
39
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
(Cont’d)
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)
(a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to ensure
that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Seventh Annual General
Meeting of the Company held on 29 November 2021.
(b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder
Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control
(a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
(b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2021 Annual Report.
Other matters
(a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s peer
performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of office and
performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they have carried out their
duties properly in accordance to the TOR.
(b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the ARMC.
(c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service provider
to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective internal control and
governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is satisfactory and operating
effectively.
The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
(a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;
(b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved audit plan:-
• Control over payroll for PT Rex Canning, Indonesia
(c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The reports
highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations for improvements;
and
(d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported the same
to the ARMC.
The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2022 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any material
losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.
The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 was RM8,120.00.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
40
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements under
paragraph 15.26(a).
The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as to give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022:-
• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out
in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited
financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the Group are
released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public informed of the
Group’s latest performance and developments.
The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are reasonably
available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities and material
misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement, loss or fraud.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
41
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of Rex Industry
Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2022 pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and
endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.
The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased to set out below its
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal
control of the Group during the year.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management and
internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and
regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated
and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and provide some reasonable but
not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are safeguarded against material losses and
unauthorised use and that the financial statements are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated
in a systematic manner.
The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and
appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered by the Board and shall be
responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting the achievement of business
objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process. All
significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.
The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the Group include:
1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas of
responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;
2. Involvement of the Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance at operational and
management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and procedures. The Managing Director
has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic issues and challenges affecting the respective business
units with the heads of business units. Significant matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the
Board on a timely basis; and
3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the Group by the
Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief Financial Officer on quarterly basis;
The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service provider
that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach in identifying major
operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking into consideration corporate
exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry out reviews on areas which are identified
by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the control processes to address
the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the control processes, where appropriate.
The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed appropriate
within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk Management Committee
with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action taken by Management to ensure
adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess
implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal control
implemented. During the financial year, the Internal Auditors reviewed the controls over payroll in the Indonesian subsidiary.
Their report has been presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
42
The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies of the Group.
Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees the risk management
process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at subsidiary level.
Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks
The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has not resulted in
any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the Group during the financial
year under review or requires disclosure in the 2022 Annual Report. Nevertheless, the Board recognises the review and
improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control is an on-going process to accommodate
evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal
control of the Group could be closely managed, monitored and improved over time.
Conclusion
The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprises the respective frameworks, procedures,
management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered appropriate. While the Board
acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not eliminate the possibility of collusion or
deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might
result in poor judgment, an assurance was received from the Group Managing Director and Group Financial Officer that the
risk management and internal control system of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues to
take measures to enhance and strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the financial
year ended 30 June 2022. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”)
3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”)). AAPG 3 does not require the external
auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control procedures. AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors
to consider whether the processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems
disclosed in the Annual Report will, in fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have
reported to the Board that nothing has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this
Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and
integrity of the risk management and internal control system.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 11 October 2022.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
43
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following information is
provided:-
1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
(a) Renounceable Rights Issue of 246,626,468 Rights Shares
The Company had on 15 December 2020 completed the above Renounceable Rights Issue of 246,626,468
Rights Shares on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Renounceable Rights Issue had
raised gross proceeds of RM24,662,647, which had been fully utilised during the financial year ended 30 June
2022.
(b) Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex (“Rights Share(s)”) on the basis of 1
Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together with 54,805,881 free detachable warrants in Rex
(“Warrant(s)”) on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed (“Proposed Rights Issue with
Warrants”)
The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants. The
Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765. The status of the utilisation of
proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows:-
Details of utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance
(RM’000)
Estimated
Timeframe for
Utilisation
Business expansion
Working capital
Expenses for this
corporate exercise
10,000
5,882
560
–
(2,221)
(560)
10,000
3,661
–
Within 18 months
Within 12 months
Total 16,442 (2,781) 13,661
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the FYE 2022, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has rendered certain audit and
non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as follows:-
Item
Company
(RM)
Group
(RM)
Audit services rendered
Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2022 60,000 221,363
Non-audit services rendered
(a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control 8,000 8,000
(b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers – 29,677
Total 68,000 259,040
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ interests or
are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2022.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
44
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Our History and Business
Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by the name of
Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Rex Canning Co. Sdn
Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding company in conjunction with the
listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”). The Company changed its name to Rex Industry
Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present
name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.
Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning Co. Sdn
Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading manufacturer, distributor
and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. PT Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began
commercial operations in August 1992; with principal activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed
seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. The
majority of PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the US and EU.
Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing population.
Our Policy
Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They are
implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance with local and
international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.
Financial Performance
For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2022, the Group recorded revenue of RM161.11 million which represents an
increase of approximately RM0.57 million as compared to the preceding financial year of RM160.54 million. The increase
in revenue was mainly due to higher revenue contribution from the local subsidiaries.
The Group recorded lower profit before tax of RM2.93 million for the FYE 30 June 2022 as compared to the profit before
tax of RM3.91 million incurred in the preceding financial year. This was attributable to the escalating costs of material and
labour combined with the effect of a weakening Ringgit that impacted local subsidiaries’ cost of purchases. This was partly
offset by the reversal of impairment loss on other receivables and inventories obsolescence as well as gain on disposal of
property, plant and equipment in the current financial year.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
45
Financial Performance (CONT’D)
REX GROUP 			
(All in RM’000) 			 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
Revenue 			 149,245 160,539 161,111
(Loss)/Profit before tax 			 (8,396) 3,912 2,934
The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and deliver
satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.
Financial Highlights
30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Statement of Profit and Loss
Revenue 130,324 136,609 149,245 160,539 161,111
(Loss)/Profit before Tax after
 Minority Interest (15,095) (14,317) (8,396) 3,912 2,934
Interest expense 1,539 1,905 2,050 1,531 1,171
(Loss)/Profit after Tax and
 Minority Interest (15,153) (13,297) (9,465) 2,603 2,027
Dividend declared – – – (987) –
Statement of Financial Position					
Paid-up Share Capital 73,742 73,742 73,742 97,903 97,903
Shareholders Funds 126,422 113,672 101,891 127,404 129,714
Borrowings 29,946 36,472 42,209 28,884 27,804
Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”) 118,533 106,635 94,854 120,367 122,677
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
46
Financial Performance (CONT’D)
Financial Ratio
30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Investment Ratio
NTA per share 0.48 0.43 0.38 0.24 0.25
					
Basic (Loss)/Earnings Per Share (Sen) (8.05) (5.39) (3.84) 0.64 0.38
Dividend per share (sen) – – – 0.2 –
Operating Ratio					
					
After tax return on shareholders’ fund (%) (11.99) (11.70) (9.29) 2.04 1.56
Pre-tax profit margin (%) (11.58) (10.48) (5.63) 2.44 1.82
Financial Ratio
Gearing (times) 0.24 0.32 0.42 0.23 0.22
Interest Coverage ratio (8.81) (6.52) (3.10) 3.55 3.51
					
Liquidity ratio
Current ratio 2.35 1.80 1.32 1.87 1.79
Quick ratio 1.27 0.99 0.61 0.93 0.83
Notes:
(1) The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 246,626,468 to 493,252,936 units of ordinary shares
by way of issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares arising from right issue exercise. The right issue had been
completed when the Rights Shares were listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
on 15 December 2020.
(2) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit after tax
attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial
year.
Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
47
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
Outlook and Prospects
The Group expects the environment for the Food & Beverage industry to remain challenging especially in the near future.
The high raw material cost, rising freight charges, and geo-political tensions are expected to impact on our business, while
rising inflationary pressures will continue to impact consumer spending.
We are nevertheless encouraged by our increasing sales revenue over the last 5 years and are confident in facing the
expected headwinds in FY2023 in both the domestic and export markets.
The rising inflationary pressures may likely result in consumers down trading and our Group will be poised to benefit from
this because of our value positioning.
We will endeavour to cushion the impact of increased cost of pressures to our business by practising tight management
of operations for efficiencies and prudent cost minimisation.
Going forward, the Group will remain focused on driving sustainable growth. We will continue to improve our production
efficiency by investing in automation where appropriate, lessen the impact on our bottom line through diligent cost
management measures and enhance margins with the right product mix and through price adjustments where possible.
We continue to focus on strengthening our market position with these strategies.
We will remain proactive in addressing the challenges ahead and are cautiously optimistic of a positive performance in the
new Financial Year (July 2022 – June 2023).
Event subsequent to the end of the financial year
The Company has completed a fund-raising exercise subsequent to the financial year for a renounceable rights issue for
ordinary shares at RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together
with 54,805,881 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed. With 164,417,645 Rights Shares
subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The Rights Shares were listed and quoted on
the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.
The proceeds raised from the Rights Issue will be utilised firstly in priority to defray the expenses related to the Rights
Issue, secondly towards business expansion, and lastly towards the working capital required for the day-to day operations
of the Group.
Acknowledgements
I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our two new Executive Directors, Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim and Mr
Kajendra Pathmanathan, who have been appointed to our Board on 11 October 2022. Their combined experience and
expertise will contribute positively to the strategies and direction of the Group.
I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their continued
support, trust and unwavering confidence over the past years.
To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the Company forward.
DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
48
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 september 2022
Class of Securities : Ordinary Shares
Total Number of Holders : 1559
Voting Rights : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
		 No. of 		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings		 Shareholders % Shares Held %
1 – 99		 23 1.48 675 0.00
100 – 1,000		 152 9.75 62,516 0.01
1,001 – 10,000		 517 33.16 3,189,531 0.48
10,001 – 100,000		 668 42.84 23,675,563 3.60
100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		 197 12.64 456,431,896 69.41
32,883,529 and above (**)		 2 0.13 174,310,400 26.50
TOTAL		 1,559 100.00 657,670,581 100.00
				
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
** 5% and above of Issued Shares
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on the Register
of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 30 September 2022 are as follows:
		 Direct Interest Deemed Interest
			 No. of		 No. of
Substantial Shareholders		 Shares Held % Shares Held %
Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		 174,310,400 26.50 – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603 12.68 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun 		 – – 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn.
Bhd.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company as
at 30 September 2022 are as follows:
		 Direct Interest Deemed Interest
			 No. of		 No. of
Directors		 Shares Held % Shares Held %
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		 9,415,600 1.43 – –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603 12.68 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Chee Cheng Chun		 – – 174,310,400 (1) 26.50
Tai Keat Chai		 – – – –
Adnan bin Ahmad		 – – – –
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn.
Bhd.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
49
THIRTY (30) LARGEST
SHAREHOLDERS
AS AT 30 september 2022
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 125,084,800 19.02
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
49,225,600 7.48
3. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd. 32,033,866 4.87
4. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd. 31,097,200 4.73
5. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
30,410,666 4.62
6. Darmendran Kunaretnam 29,560,672 4.49
7. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd. 25,984,800 3.95
8. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd. 25,035,233 3.81
9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)
24,636,766 3.75
10. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)
23,707,600 3.60
11. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan 21,306,666 3.24
12. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd. 21,011,400 3.19
13. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)
12,402,600 1.89
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran K Ragavan (021))
10,527,066 1.60
15. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
9,415,600 1.43
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)
8,650,666 1.32
17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))
8,533,333 1.30
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)
8,068,266 1.23
19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)
7,216,000 1.10
20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))
6,826,666 1.04
21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd. 6,666,666 1.01
22. Haridas A/L Suppiah 6,011,066 0.91
23. Lee Sew Keng 5,052,528 0.77
24. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
5,040,000 0.77
25. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Samuel Lo Qi Feng (MY2538))
4,846,600 0.74
26. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)
4,602,000 0.70
27. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
(Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
4,266,666 0.65
28. Kamlesh Kumar 3,205,333 0.49
29. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))
3,066,666 0.47
30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))
2,666,666 0.41
TOTAL 556,159,657 84.58
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
50
30%
70%
P.T. REX
CANNING,
INDONESIA
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
199301027926 (282664-K)
100%
Rex Canning
Co Sdn Bhd
100%
Fika Foods
Corporation
Sdn Bhd
100%
Cinta Edar (M)
Snd Bhd
100%
Rex Foods
Sdn Bhd
100%
Fika Foods
Marketing
Sdn Bhd
100%
Rex Trading
Sdn Bhd
100%
Summit
Teamtrade
(2011)
Sdn Bhd
100%
Best Aqua
Food Sdn Bhd
100%
Cinta Edar
(Selatan)
Sdn Bhd
100%
Gainasia
International
Limited
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
51
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its subsidiaries are set
out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.
RESULTS
				 Group Company
				 RM RM
Profit/(loss) for the financial year, net of tax attributable to			
 Owners of the Company				 2,027,064 (6,263,332)
DIVIDENDS
On 8 October 2021, the Directors declared an interim single tier dividend of RM0.002 per ordinary share for the financial
year ended 30 June 2021 amounting to RM986,505, which was subsequently paid by the Company on 9 November 2021.
The Directors do not recommend any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.
ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
The Company has not issued any shares or debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are:
Adnan Bin Ahmad
Chee Cheng Chun *
Darmendran Kunaretnam *
Tai Keat Chai *
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim (Appointed on 11 October 2022)
Kajendra Pathmanathan (Appointed on 11 October 2022)
* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
52
DIRECTOR OF THE SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
Pursuant to Section 253(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Director who served in the subsidiaries (excluding Directors
who are also Directors of the Company) in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report is as
follows:
Vong Nee Toh
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016,
the interest of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares or debentures of the Company and its related
corporations during the financial year were as follows:
		 Number of Ordinary Shares
			 At 			 At
			 01.07.2021 Bought Sold 30.06.2022
			 Unit Unit Unit Unit
Name of Directors
Ordinary shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain		 7,061,600 – – 7,061,600
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 62,549,704 – – 62,549,704
Indirect interests:
Darmendran Kunaretnam *
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 121,232,800 9,500,000 – 130,732,800
Chee Cheng Chun *
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 121,232,800 9,500,000 – 130,732,800
* Deemed interest via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia.
The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
53
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company and the
estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash from the Company and
its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows:
					 Company Subsidiaries
					 RM RM
Fees and allowances				 71,710 110,300
Salaries and other emoluments				 – 903,660
Contributions to defined contribution plan				 – 54,264
Social security contributions				 – 676
					 71,710 1,068,900
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive any
benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the financial statements or the
fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation
with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest, except as disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling Directors of the
Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body
corporate.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of the Group and of the
Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no known bad debts and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to
an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading;
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
financial statements misleading.
 
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
54
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period
of twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the
financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations of
the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
(e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries as remuneration for their
services for the financial year are as set out in Note 6 to the financial statements.
(f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the Company or
any of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.
(g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company and its
subsidiaries.
EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF FINANCIAL YEAR
Details of event subsequent to the end of financial year are disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 11 October 2022.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM TAI KEAT CHAI
 BIN MOHD ZAIN
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
55
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
We, the undersigned, being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the
accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 125 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia, so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2022
and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 11 October 2022.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM TAI KEAT CHAI
 BIN MOHD ZAIN
I, CHIA HUP TONG, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 125 are to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly
declared by the abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory
on 11 October 2022
CHIA HUP TONG
Before me,
TAN KIM CHOOI
W661
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
56
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
REGISTRATION NO.: 199301027926 (282664-K)
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 30 June 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes
in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 60 to 125.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 30 June 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
Goodwill
As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 13 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill amounted
to approximately RM7.0 million.
The Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of impairment exists, perform impairment
assessments of goodwill that has an indefinite useful life. For the purpose of performing impairment assessments,
goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating units (“CGUs”). The recoverable amount of the underlying CGUs
is supported by value-in-use (“VIU”) or fair value less costs of disposal calculations which are based on future discounted
cash flows. The management concluded that no impairment on goodwill is required for the financial year ended 30 June
2022.
Investments in subsidiaries
As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 11 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Company’s investments
in subsidiaries amounted to RM84.9 million. During the financial year, the Company has recognised an impairment loss of
RM4.4 million for its investments in subsidiaries.
A lower of net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amount of investments
in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount of the investments in
subsidiaries based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows projections
derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
57
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment (Cont’d)
Impairment review of property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, the carrying amounts of the Group’s PPE amounted to
RM80.4 million, representing approximately 40% of the Group’s total assets.
Certain subsidiaries were loss making and in accumulated losses position during the financial year. These resulted in
indications that the carrying amounts of PPE may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amount
of the PPE based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows projections
derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.
We have identified the impairment review of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE as key audit matters as
impairment test involves significant judgement in estimating the underlying assumptions to be applied in the discounted
cash flows projections of the VIU calculations. The recoverable amounts of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE
are highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect of future revenue growth rate, gross margin and the pre-tax
discount rate used in the cash flows projections. A small change in the assumption can have a significant impact on the
estimation of the recoverable amount.
Our audit performed and responses thereon
In addressing the matters above, we have performed the following audit procedures to evaluate management’s basis and
assumptions used in the VIU and the fair value less costs of disposal for respective subsidiaries and CGUs:-
• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts based on VIU were prepared by management based on the approved
budgets by the Directors;
• Evaluated management’s budgeting process by comparing actual results to historical cash flows projections;
• Reviewed management’s impairment assessment including their considerations of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic
has on the operations and compared, gross margin and discount rate against our knowledge of the subsidiaries’
and CGUs’ historical performance, business and cost management strategies based on facts and circumstances
currently available;
• Performed sensitivity analysis by changing certain key assumptions used in the VIU and assessed the impact on the
recoverable amounts of the cost of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and PPE;
• Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE; and
• Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments to
estimate the fair value of the subsidiaries.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the
other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
58
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for
such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group
and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the
Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
59
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this
report.
MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT STEPHEN WAN YENG LEONG
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA) 02963/07/2023J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096) Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 11 October 2022
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
60
STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue 4 161,111,027 160,539,264 – 11,000,000
Changes in manufactured inventories		 (5,885,489) (5,662,607) – –
Raw materials and consumables used		 (101,087,836) (100,791,279) – –
Staff costs		 (21,093,810) (20,837,381) (71,710) (184,510)
Depreciation		 (4,630,378) (3,799,133) – –
Other operating expenses		 (26,685,815) (25,481,686) (252,177) (235,702)
Other expenses		 (830,341) (320,364) (5,939,445) –
Other income		 3,207,948 1,795,780 – 42,590
Profit/(loss) from operations		 4,105,306 5,442,594 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Finance costs 5 (1,171,083) (1,530,554) – –
Profit/(loss) before tax 6 2,934,223 3,912,040 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Income tax expense 7 (907,159) (1,309,463) – –
Profit/(loss) for the year, representing
 total comprehensive income for
 the financial year		 2,027,064 2,602,577 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Other comprehensive income,
 net of tax
Items that may be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation		 1,269,392 (1,556,615) – –
Items that will not be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		 – 306,288 – –
Total other comprehensive income
 for the financial year		 1,269,392 (1,250,327) – –
Total comprehensive income for the
 financial year		 3,296,456 1,352,250 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Profit/(loss) attributable to:						
Owners of the Company		 2,027,064 2,602,577 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Total comprehensive income
 attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 3,296,456 1,352,250 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Basic earnings per ordinary share
 attributable to Owners of
 the Company (sen): 8 0.38 0.64
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
61
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2022
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 80,377,179 78,894,959 – –
Right-of-use assets 10 5,604,842 6,143,278 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 11 – – 84,880,641 89,255,250
Other investment 12 – – – –
Goodwill on consolidation 13 7,037,480 7,037,480 – –
		 93,019,501 92,075,717 84,880,641 89,255,250
Current Assets
Inventories 14 58,316,937 52,116,219 – –
Trade receivables 15 34,408,795 33,363,772 – –
Other receivables 16 6,750,592 3,144,775 235,497 20,648
Amounts due from subsidiaries 17 – – 12,166,214 15,116,918
Tax recoverable		 161,328 190,397 31,320 31,320
Cash and cash equivalents 18 8,790,165 14,628,260 93,310 142,200
		 108,427,817 103,443,423 12,526,341 15,311,086
TOTAL ASSETS		 201,447,318 195,519,140 97,406,982 104,566,336
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 19 97,903,444 97,903,444 97,903,444 97,903,444
Translation reserve 20 (3,667,102) (4,936,494) – –
Retained earnings/
 (accumulated losses)		 35,478,033 34,437,474 (3,751,757) 3,498,080
Total equity attributable to Owners
 of the Company		 129,714,375 127,404,424 94,151,687 101,401,524
Non-Current Liabilities
Borrowings 21 9,272,106 10,515,773 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 22 1,491,888 1,507,883 – –
Lease liabilities 23 390,087 773,965 – –
		 11,154,081 12,797,621 – –
Current Liabilities
Borrowings 21 18,532,065 18,368,534 – –
Trade payables 24 19,823,659 20,003,757 – –
Other payables 25 21,274,054 15,858,606 255,372 201,494
Rebate liability 26 596,276 582,488 – –
Amounts due to subsidiaries 17 – – 2,999,923 2,963,318
Lease liabilities 23 273,060 332,817 – –
Tax payable		 79,748 170,893 – –
		 60,578,862 55,317,095 3,255,295 3,164,812
Total Liabilities		 71,732,943 68,114,716 3,255,295 3,164,812
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 201,447,318 195,519,140 97,406,982 104,566,336
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
62
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-Distributable Distributable
		 Share Translation Retained Total
		 Capital Reserve Earnings Equity
Note RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 July 2020		 73,742,421 (3,379,879) 31,528,609 101,891,151
Foreign currency translation difference
 for foreign operations		 – (1,556,615) – (1,556,615)
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain 25(i) – – 306,288 306,288
Total other comprehensive income for
 the financial year		 – (1,556,615) 306,288 (1,250,327)
Profit for the financial year		 – – 2,602,577 2,602,577
Total comprehensive income for the
 financial year		 – (1,556,615) 2,908,865 1,352,250
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Issuance of ordinary shares 19 24,161,023 – – 24,161,023
At 30 June 2021		 97,903,444 (4,936,494) 34,437,474 127,404,424
At 1 July 2021		 97,903,444 (4,936,494) 34,437,474 127,404,424
Foreign currency translation
 difference for foreign
 operations, representing
 total other comprehensive
 income for the financial year		 – 1,269,392 – 1,269,392
Profit for the financial year		 – – 2,027,064 2,027,064
Total comprehensive income for the
 financial year		 – 1,269,392 2,027,064 3,296,456
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Dividend 27 – – (986,505) (986,505)
At 30 June 2022		 97,903,444 (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
63
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
(Cont’d)
					
(Accumulated
					
Losses)/
					
Distributable
				 Share Retained Total
				 Capital Earnings Equity
			 Note RM RM RM
Company
At 1 July 2020			 73,742,421 (7,124,298) 66,618,123
Profit for the financial year, representing total
 comprehensive income for the financial year			 – 10,622,378 10,622,378
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Issuance of ordinary shares 		 19 24,161,023 – 24,161,023
At 30 June 2021			 97,903,444 3,498,080 101,401,524
At 1 July 2021			 97,903,444 3,498,080 101,401,524
Loss for the financial year, representing total
 comprehensive income for the financial year			 – (6,263,332) (6,263,332)
Transaction with Owners of the Company
Dividend		 27 – (986,505) (986,505)
At 30 June 2022			 97,903,444 (3,751,757) 94,151,687
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
64
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Profit/(loss) before tax		 2,934,223 3,912,040 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Adjustments for:
 Allowance for inventories obsolescence		 37,102 – – –
 Depreciation of property,
  plant and equipment		 4,154,724 3,371,632 – –
 Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 475,654 427,496 – –
 Gain on disposal of other investment		 – (42,590) – (42,590)
 Gain on disposal of property, plant
  and equipment		 (389,920) (147,981) – –
 Gain on lease modification		 (2,230) – – –
 Gain on lease termination		 (5,526) – – –
 Impairment loss on:
 - amounts due from subsidiaries		 – – 1,564,836 –
 - investments in subsidiaries		 – – 4,374,609 –
 - property, plant and equipment		 156,083 – – –
 - trade receivables		 31,466 – – –
 - other receivables		 75,361 – – –
 Interest expense		 1,171,083 1,530,554 – –
 Interest income		 (59,385) (111,209) – –
 Inventories written off		 – 658,300 – –
 Provision for staff termination benefits 25 306,210 – – –
 Reversal of impairment loss on:
 - trade receivables		 (3,626) (15,517) – –
 - other receivables		 (1,143,733) – – –
 Reversal of allowance for inventories
  obsolescence		 (563,116) (658,300) – –
 Unrealised loss on foreign exchange,
  net		 433,548 294,589 – –
Operating profit/(loss) before changes
 in working capital, balance
 carried down		 7,607,918 9,219,014 (323,887) 10,579,788
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
65
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Operating profit/(loss) before changes
 in working capital, balance
 brought down		 7,607,918 9,219,014 (323,887) 10,579,788
Changes in working capital:
 Inventories		 (4,374,545) (5,671,749) – –
 Trade and other receivables		 (3,446,031) (4,600,840) (214,849) (11,645,214)
 Trade and other payables		 4,226,312 2,059,573 53,878 655,184
 Rebate liability		 13,788 317,479 – –
Cash generated from/(used in) operations		 4,027,442 1,323,477 (484,858) (410,242)
 Interest paid		 (1,171,083) (1,530,554) – –
 Interest received		 59,385 111,209 – –
 Tax paid		 (1,030,538) (1,296,064) – –
 Tax refund		 40,135 5,338 – –
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities		 1,925,341 (1,386,594) (484,858) (410,242)
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Acquisition of property, plant and
 equipment		 (5,946,296) (2,965,140) – –
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:
- Cash payments		 (85,043) – – –
Proceeds from disposal of property,
 plant and equipment		 930,001 527,650 – –
Proceeds from disposal of other
 investment		 – 796,590 – 796,590
Repayment from/(advances to) subsidiaries		 – – 1,385,868 (24,413,982)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities		 (5,101,338) (1,640,900) 1,385,868 (23,617,392)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Advances from subsidiaries		 – – 36,605 –
Dividend paid		 (986,505) – (986,505) –
Repayment of borrowings, net (ii) (1,779,672) (10,321,131) – –
Payment for the principal portion of
 lease liabilities (ii),(iii) (336,736) (319,380) – –
Proceeds from issuance of
 ordinary shares		 – 24,161,023 – 24,161,023
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities		 (3,102,913) 13,520,512 (949,900) 24,161,023
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
66
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Net (decrease)/increase in
 cash and cash equivalents		 (6,278,910) 10,493,018 (48,890) 133,389
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of the financial year		 13,756,277 3,373,430 142,200 8,811
Effect of exchange rate
 changes on cash and cash
 equivalents		 29,902 (110,171) – –
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of the financial year (i) 7,507,269 13,756,277 93,310 142,200
(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances		 7,890,165 12,500,887 93,310 142,200
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 18(i) 900,000 350,000 – –
Short-term fund 18(ii) – 1,777,373 – –
			 8,790,165 14,628,260 93,310 142,200
Less: Bank overdrafts 21 (1,282,896) (871,983) – –
			 7,507,269 13,756,277 93,310 142,200
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
67
(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:
			 Bankers’ Term Revolving Lease
			 Acceptance Loans Credit 	Liabilities
			 RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
At 1 July 2021		 13,309,730 11,702,594 3,000,000 1,106,782
Additions		 – – – 280,779
Reversal due to lease modifications		 – – – (97,905)
Lease termination		 – – – (291,688)
Exchange differences		 288,623 – – 1,915
Drawdown		 216,695 – – –
Repayment		 (1,375,441) (1,617,704) (120,132) (365,915)
Interest expense		 569,441 427,337 120,132 29,179
Net changes in financing cash flows		 (589,305) (1,190,367) – (336,736)
At 30 June 2022		 13,009,048 10,512,227 3,000,000 663,147
2021
At 1 July 2020		 22,053,774 12,674,353 4,000,000 1,242,219
Additions		 – – – 187,871
Exchange differences		 (394,672) – – (3,928)
Repayment		 (9,058,739) (1,513,912) (1,124,020) (350,267)
Interest expense		 709,367 542,153 124,020 30,887
Net changes in financing cash flows		 (8,349,372) (971,759) (1,000,000) (319,380)
At 30 June 2021		 13,309,730 11,702,594 3,000,000 1,106,782
(iii) Cash outflows for right-of-use assets are as follows:
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Included in net cash from/(used in) operating activities:
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities				 (29,179) (30,887)
Payment relating to short term lease and lease of low value assets		 (777,707) (717,796)
Included in net cash (used in)/from financing activities:
Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities			 (336,736) (319,380)
Total cash outflows for lease liabilities				 (1,143,622) (1,068,063)
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
(Cont’d)
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
68
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTs
30 JUNE 2022
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main Market
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its subsidiaries are
set out in Note 11. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the
Company during the financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution dated 11
October 2022.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the preparation of
the financial statements.
(i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that are
mandatory as follows:-
Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 7, Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
 MFRS 4 and MFRS 16
Amendments to MFRS 16 Covid-19 – Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021
The adoption of the above accounting pronouncements did not have any significant effect on the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company.
(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted
The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that have
been issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not yet effective for the
Group and the Company:-
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before Intended Use
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
Annual Improvements to MFRSs 2018 – 2020
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
69
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (Cont’d)
(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted
(Cont’d)
Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative
 Information
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 and Disclosure of Accounting Policies
 MFRS Practice Statement 2
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
 Single Transaction
Effective date to be announced
Amendments to MFRS 10 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its and
MFRS 128  Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company will adopt the above accounting pronouncements when they become
effective in the respective financial periods. These accounting pronouncements are not expected to have
any effect to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company upon their initial applications.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost convention
except otherwise disclosed in the accounting policy notes.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements
are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional currency, unless otherwise
stated.
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s and
the Company’s results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures. Certain of these
accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and subjective judgements and
the use of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to
change. Directors exercise their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting
policies.
Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and underlying
assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results
may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
70
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (Cont’d)
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at the end of the
reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.
(i) Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting date to
assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the Group makes an
estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair
value less cost to sell and its value-in-use (“VIU”). When the recoverable amount of an asset is determined
based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset is allocated, the
management is required to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and also
to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This requires
management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill
is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash
flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates estimated and
discount rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference will impact the
carrying value of goodwill.
(iii) Impairment of financial assets and receivables
The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with
their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied as disclosed in
Note 3(o)(i) depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9,
which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
For other receivables and amounts due from related parties, the Group and the Company apply the
approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to measure the allowance for
impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the probability of default occurring within
the next 12 months considering the loss given default of that financial asset.
(iv)	Provision for slow-moving inventories
Reviews are made periodically by management on slow-moving inventories. These reviews required
judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates could result in revisions to the valuation
of inventories.
(v) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment annually in accordance with its accounting
policy or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be
recoverable.
Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions and
judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in assumptions
could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
71
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (Cont’d)
(vi) Defined benefit plan
The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the present
value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making
assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability rate and resignation
rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rate,
management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market yield on government bond which
sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.
The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 25(i).
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
statements.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies
are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and
only if the Company has all the following:
(i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant power
activities of the investee); 
(ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
(iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company considers the
following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power
over the investee:
(i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the
other vote holders;
(ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
(iii)		
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
(iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current
ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns
at previous shareholders’ meetings.
Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the
Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over
the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interest and the
non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. The
resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are compared to
the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying amount of allocated
goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised as gain or loss on disposal.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
72
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)
Business combination
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the
amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis
whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate
share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction cost incurred are expensed and included in the profit
or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition
date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset
or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit or loss or a change to other
comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured.
Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances where the contingent consideration does
not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate MFRS.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate
classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent
conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the
acquiree. 
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously
held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and
the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised in the profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose
of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to
each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed
of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based
on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Subsidiaries
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less
impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal proceeds and their
carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
statements.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
73
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions and balances
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the
entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using the exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies at the
reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the exchange rates on the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the reporting date except
for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate
at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of monetary
items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences arising on monetary
items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.
(ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different from the
presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated into RM as follows:-
• Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate prevailing
at the reporting date;
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year, which
approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and
• All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.
Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when control, joint
control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.
On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of the subsidiary
is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the cumulative translation
differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other partial disposals.
(c) Revenue and other income recognition
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e. when
the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the
customer.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct goods or
services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is
explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business practices.
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange
for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf
of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due
to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar items, the Group estimates the
amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the expected value or the most likely outcome.
If the contract with customer contains more than one performance obligation, the amount of consideration
is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or
services promised in the contract.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
74
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(c) Revenue and other income recognition (Cont’d)
Revenue from contracts with customers (Cont’d)
The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration
is subsequently resolved.
The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control
over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
- The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance
as the Group performs;
- The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
or enhanced; or
- The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an
enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which
the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.
Rebate liability
A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable) from the
customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer.
The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs its obligation under the contracts.
The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and discounts
are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration for the expected
future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method. The Group then applies the
requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and recognises a refund liability for the
expected future rebates.
Other income
Other revenue earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Wages subsidy
Government grant/assistance received from Government on wages subsidy is recognised on monthly basis
over the qualified period under the criteria set by the Government.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
75
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(d) Employee benefits
Short term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the financial year in
which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term accumulating compensated
absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are rendered by employees that increase their
entitlement to future compensated absences, and short term non-accumulating compensated absences such
as sick leaves are recognised when absences occur.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount expected to be
paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.
Defined contribution plans
As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the state pension scheme, the Employees
Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the relevant state pension
scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once the contributions have been paid,
the Group has no further payment obligations.
Defined benefit plan
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for each plan
by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current
and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs
and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the end of the reporting
period on government bond (sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in
the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to calculate the present value of
economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in the
Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement
of the plan liabilities.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by
employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in
profit or loss.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans in other comprehensive
income and all expenses related to defined benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when the
curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in the fair
value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation and any related actuarial gains
and losses and past service cost that had not previously been recognised.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
76
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(e) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are recognised in the
profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost
of those assets.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases
when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are
interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
(f) Income taxes
Current tax
Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected amount
payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and foreign operations, using tax
rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any adjustments recognised for prior years’
tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the related tax effect is recognised either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the carrying amount
of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax is not recognised
for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and
liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which
the assets are realised or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary differences
relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be
available for the assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is adjusted against goodwill
on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the acquisition cost.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
77
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(g)	Leases
As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or site on
which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:
Short term leasehold land * Over the lease term of 60 years
Long term leasehold land ^ Over the lease term of 60 years
Hostel rental 3 years
Office rental 6 years
Factory rental 6.5 years
Motor vehicle 4 - 5 years
* Short term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years
^ Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years
The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are presented as a separate line in the statements of financial
position.
In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain
remeasurements of the lease liability. The Group applies MFRS 136 to determine whether a right-of-use asset
is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment loss as described in Note 3(o)(ii).
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the commencement
date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease payments included in the measurement
of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease payments, amount expected to be payable under
a residual value guarantee, and exercise price under an extension option that the Group is reasonably certain to
exercise.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group changes its assessment
of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.
Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight-
line basis as an expense in the profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or
less.
As a lessor
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of
an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over
the lease terms and is included in other revenue in the statement of profit or loss due to its operating nature.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of
the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are
recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
78
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(h) Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year,
adjusted for own shares held.
(i)	Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses.
(i) Recognition and measurement
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and any other
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of replacing
component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of
the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and
direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting
policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as
incurred.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits
are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and
equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of
the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to
the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant
and equipment are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that
asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated useful
lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following annual rates:-
Buildings 2%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 5% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment 5% - 20%
Motor vehicles 20%
Freehold land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.
Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until they are
no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these property, plant and
equipment.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
79
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(j) Capital work-in-progress
Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes borrowing
costs incurred during the period of construction.
No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the cost will be
transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(k) Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase consideration
and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the
subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses,
if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when indication of
impairment exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the computation
of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income.
(l) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred
in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
- cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a weighted
average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).
- cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of production
overheads.
(m) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposits with licensed banks with
licensed bank and short-term fund that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject
to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash
equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
80
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(n) Financial instruments
(i) Initial recognition and measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only
when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or a financial
liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss,
transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance. A trade receivable without a
significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price. 
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract is not
a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to the
economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is not measured at fair value
through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is
accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified subsequent
to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business model for managing
financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first
reporting period following the change of the business model.
Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model whose
objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms give rise on
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. The financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent to
initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains
and losses and impairment are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is
recognised in the profit or loss. Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the
gross carrying amount except for credit impaired financial assets [see Note 3(o)(i)] where the effective
interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.
Fair value through profit or loss
All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income
are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for
a derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group or
the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be
measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income as at fair value through
profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise
arise. Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at their
fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in the profit or
loss.
All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are subject to impairment
assessment [see Note 3(o)(i)].
 
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
81
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(n) Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows: (Cont’d)
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost
Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gains or
losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
(iii) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statements of
financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally enforceable right
to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and liability
simultaneously.
(iv) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at higher
of:
• the amount of the loss allowance; and
• the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
(v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the
market place concerned.
A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using
trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:
(a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and
(b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition
of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date. 
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
82
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(n) Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(vi) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the cash
flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or substantially all of the risks
and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred to another party. On derecognition of a
financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received
(including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that
had been recognised in equity is recognised in the profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified in the
contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference
between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the
profit or loss.
(o) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on financial
assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit losses are a
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-
(i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the 12
months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less
than 12 months); or
(ii) Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over the
expected life of a financial instrument.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk.
Simplified approach – trade receivables
The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables as
permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from
initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated
using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss experience,
adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of
both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value
of money where applicable.
General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts
The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at an
amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
83
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) Impairment (Cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (Cont’d)
General approach - other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts (Cont’d)
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial instrument
has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased significantly since
initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether
the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating
ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and
available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and
analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
and including forward looking information, where available.
If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the financial
instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.
The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes
when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full, without
recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).
The Group and the Company consider a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of
the loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors and the Group and the Company in full,
without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The
Group and the Company only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into
account by adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.
The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which
the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
Credit impaired financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised
cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental
impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following events:
- Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
- A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than 90 days
past due);
- The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial
difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider
(e.g. the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company on terms that the Group
and the Company would not consider otherwise);
- It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
- The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
84
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(o) Impairment (Cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (Cont’d)
Write-off policy
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there
is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company determines
that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be
subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for
recovery of amounts due. Any recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.
(ii) Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists
then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds
its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the profit or loss, unless the
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly against any
revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the
revaluation surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group
that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use and its fair
value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.
Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case
it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary exceeds
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the investment including
the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is recognised in the profit
or loss.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
85
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
(p) Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and of the
Company after deducting all of their liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.
Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction
costs. Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
(q)	Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present legal or
constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits
will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash
flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
(r) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief
operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make decisions
about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
information is available.
(s) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the
most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as
possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can
access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change
in circumstances that caused the transfers.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
86
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
4. REVENUE
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contract with customers
Sales of manufactured products 161,111,027 160,539,264 – –
Revenue from other source
Dividend income		 – – – 11,000,000
			 161,111,027 160,539,264 – 11,000,000
Sales of manufactured products
The Group sells a range of manufactured canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of manufactured
products are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being when the
customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.
Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 30.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the dividend is established.
 
5. FINANCE COSTS
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Interest expense on:			
Bank overdrafts				 24,994 124,127
Bankers’ acceptance				 569,441 709,367
Lease liabilities				 29,179 30,887
Revolving credit				 120,132 124,020
Term loans				 427,337 542,153
					 1,171,083 1,530,554
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
87
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed in Note 5, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration:
- statutory audit		 221,363 221,581 60,000 55,000
- other services		 37,677 20,000 8,000 20,000
Allowance for inventories obsolescence 37,102 – – –
Depreciation of property, plant and
 equipment		 4,154,724 3,371,632 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 475,654 427,496 – –
Employee benefit expenses (Note a) 21,093,810 20,837,381 71,710 184,510
Gain on disposal of other investment		 – (42,590) – (42,590)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
 equipment		 (389,920) (147,981) – –
Gain on lease modification		 (2,230) – – –
Gain on lease termination		 (5,526) – – –
Impairment loss on:
- amounts due from subsidiaries		 – – 1,564,836 –
- investments in subsidiaries		 – – 4,374,609 –
- property, plant and equipment		 156,083 – – –
- trade receivables		 31,466 – – –
- other receivables		 75,361 – – –
Interest income		 (59,385) (111,209) – –
Inventories written off		 – 658,300 – –
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables		 (3,626) (15,517) – –
- other receivables		 (1,143,733) – – –
Reversal of allowance for inventories
 obsolescence		 (563,116) (658,300) – –
Realised (gain)/loss on foreign
 exchange, net		 (53,671) 25,775 – –
Rental income		 (262,518) (54,600) – –
Short-term lease and lease of low
 value assets:
- premises		 603,678 396,696 – –
- equipments		 174,029 321,100 – –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		 433,548 294,589 – –
Wages subsidy (Note c)		 (292,200) (739,200) – –
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
88
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (cont’d)
Other than those disclosed in Note 5, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):- (Cont’d)
(a) Employees benefit expenses comprise:-
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Staff costs:
Directors’ remuneration (Note b)		 1,140,610 764,948 71,710 184,510
Salaries, wages, allowances and overtime 18,170,006 18,436,864 – –
Defined benefit plan		 28,294 334,918 – –
Contributions to defined contribution plan 558,307 571,151 – –
Social security contributions		 890,383 729,500 – –
Provision for staff termination benefits		 306,210 – – –
			 21,093,810 20,837,381 71,710 184,510
(b) Directors’ remuneration comprise:-
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Directors of the Company:
Executive Directors
Salaries and other emoluments		 903,660 510,971 – –
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 54,264 68,544 – –
Social security contributions		 676 923 – –
			 958,600 580,438 – –
Non-executive Directors
Fees and allowances		 182,010 184,510 71,710 184,510
			 1,140,610 764,948 71,710 184,510
(c) Wages subsidy
Represents grant received from the Malaysian Government in relation to wages subsidy for eligible employees.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
89
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Current income tax:
- Foreign tax				 923,154 1,326,989
Deferred tax (Note 22):
Reversal of temporary differences				 (15,995) (17,526)
Income tax expense for the financial year				 907,159 1,309,463
Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) of the estimated assessable
profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The reconciliation of the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and to the Company’s tax expense
are as follows:
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Profit/(loss) before tax		 2,934,223 3,912,040 (6,263,332) 10,622,378
Tax at the Malaysian statutory
 income tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) 704,200 938,900 (1,503,200) 2,549,400
Effect of different tax rate in other country		 (65,700) (90,300) – –
Income not subject to tax		 (282,004) (47,329) – (2,650,300)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes		 715,363 606,392 1,503,200 100,900
Deferred tax assets not recognised		 538,600 711,300 – –
Utilisation of previously unrecognised
 deferred tax assets (703,300) (809,500) – –
Income tax expense for the financial year 907,159 1,309,463 – –
The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available for set-off
against future taxable profits as follows:-
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 27,743,600 25,700,200
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 16,799,100 15,796,900
					 44,542,700 41,497,100
The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital
allowances carried forward.
The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval to offset
against future taxable profit. The unutilised tax losses of the Company and its subsidiaries in Malaysia will be allowed
to be carried forward for 10 consecutive years of assessment (“YA”) (previously 7 YAs) deemed to be effective from
YA 2019.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
90
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit after tax attributable to
Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Group
				 2022 2021
Basic earnings per share:			
Profit after tax attributable to the Owners of the Company (RM) 			 2,027,064 2,602,577
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:			
Number of ordinary shares at beginning of the financial year (unit) 493,252,936 246,626,468
Effect of ordinary shares issued				 – 133,786,413
Effect of rights issue with free warrant * 			 36,962,106 28,506,392
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at end of the financial year 530,215,042 408,919,273
Basic earnings per share (sen)				 0.38 0.64
* With the completion of the issuance of rights share on 30 August 2022, the current year and the prior year
comparatives for earnings per shares were adjusted/restated through retrospective application of a bonus factor
to the weighted average number of shares. The bonus factor is derived from the division of fair value per share
immediately before the exercise of rights by the theoretical ex-rights fair value.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date
and before the authorisation of these financial statements.
No diluted earnings per share are presented as there were no potential dilutive ordinary shares as at 30 June 2022
and 30 June 2021.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
91
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
				 Plant, Furniture, 			
machinery fittings
Freehold and factory and office Motor Capital work-
		 land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles in-progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Cost
At 1 July 2021 15,483,682 47,163,144 51,315,544 5,618,959 1,516,807 – 121,098,136
Additions – 11,000 3,484,236 384,228 12,934 2,053,898 5,946,296
Disposals – (588,180) (40,500) – (161,645) – (790,325)
Reclassification – – 618,357 5,144 – (623,501) –
Transfer from right-of-use assets
 (Note 10) – – – – 96,135 – 96,135
Exchange differences 217,664 67,961 215,429 19,478 32,235 – 552,767
At 30 June 2022 15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066 6,027,809 1,496,466 1,430,397 126,903,009
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 July 2021 – 9,245,685 29,015,852 3,327,346 614,294 – 42,203,177
Charge for the financial year – 803,862 2,663,825 456,612 230,425 – 4,154,724
Disposals – (95,688) (32,161) – (122,395) – (250,244)
Transfer from right-of-use assets
 (Note 10) – – – – 44,312 – 44,312
Exchange differences – 32,556 140,771 17,947 26,504 – 217,778
At 30 June 2022 – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905 793,140 – 46,369,747
Accumulated Impairment Loss
At 1 July 2021 – – – – – – –
Impairment loss for the financial year – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
At 30 June 2022 – – – 156,083 – – 156,083
Net Carrying Amount
At 30 June 2022 15,701,346 36,667,510 23,804,779 2,069,821 703,326 1,430,397 80,377,179
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
92
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
9. 	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
				 Plant, Furniture, 			
machinery fittings
Freehold and factory and office Motor Capital work-
		 land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles in-progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)							
2021							
Cost
At 1 July 2020 15,789,427 46,274,858 49,358,887 5,200,353 2,731,305 895,155 120,249,985
Additions – 84,395 2,185,365 443,525 251,855 – 2,965,140
Disposals – – – – (1,414,989) – (1,414,989)
Reclassification – 852,719 – – – (852,719) –
Exchange differences (305,745) (48,828) (228,708) (24,919) (51,364) (42,436) (702,000)
At 30 June 2021 15,483,682 47,163,144 51,315,544 5,618,959 1,516,807 – 121,098,136
Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2020 – 8,576,415 27,183,224 2,906,650 1,484,218 – 40,150,507
Charge for the financial year – 711,410 2,008,405 444,196 207,621 – 3,371,632
Disposals – – – – (1,035,320) – (1,035,320)
Exchange differences – (42,140) (175,777) (23,500) (42,225) – (283,642)
At 30 June 2021 – 9,245,685 29,015,852 3,327,346 614,294 – 42,203,177
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2021 15,483,682 37,917,459 22,299,692 2,291,613 902,513 – 78,894,959
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
93
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
9. 	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)
(i) Assets pledged as security
Certain freehold land and building with net carrying amount of RM24,718,398 (2021: RM25,080,309) are held as
security for term loan facilities as disclosed in Note 21.
(ii) Impairment loss
The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting
date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the Group makes an
estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment was
derived based on fair value less cost to sell, as well as VIU method using cash flows projection derived from
the most recent financial forecast and projections approved by the Directors covering a period of 5 years. The
recoverable amount for certain assets was estimated to be lower than the net carrying amount of property,
plant and equipment, and hence, and an impairment loss of RM156,083 (2021: Nil) being recognised as “other
expenses” line item in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June
2022.
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(a) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted gross margin is 22% (2021: 28%). Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted
period.
(b) Weighted average growth rate
The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 6% (2021: 11%). Revenue growth is projected
based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well as taking into
consideration of future demand outlook.
(c) Pre-tax discount rate
A pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% (2021: 6.7%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the Company as
well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
94
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
		 Long term Short term 					
leasehold leasehold Hostel Office Factory Motor
		 land * land rental rental rental vehicle Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group							
2022							
Cost							
At 1 July 2021 1,471,964 5,576,382 500,990 403,995 544,982 189,251 8,687,564
Additions [Note (i)] – – 82,675 – – 283,147 365,822
Transfer to property, plant
 and equipment (Note 9) – – – – – (96,135) (96,135)
Reversal due to lease
 modification – – (313,119) – – – (313,119)
Lease termination – – – (403,995) – – (403,995)
Exchange differences – – – – – 8,098 8,098
At 30 June 2022 1,471,964 5,576,382 270,546 – 544,982 384,361 8,248,235
Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2021 272,355 1,810,841 128,727 84,166 167,686 80,511 2,544,286
Charge for the financial year 23,069 94,138 166,997 33,667 83,843 73,940 475,654
Transfer to property, plant
 and equipment (Note 9) – – – – – (44,312) (44,312)
Reversal due to lease modification – – (217,444) – – – (217,444)
Lease termination – – – (117,833) – – (117,833)
Exchange differences – – – – – 3,042 3,042
At 30 June 2022 295,424 1,904,979 78,280 – 251,529 113,181 2,643,393
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2022 1,176,540 3,671,403 192,266 – 293,453 271,180 5,604,842
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
95
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)
		 Long term Short term 					
leasehold leasehold Hostel Office Factory Motor
		 land * land rental rental rental vehicle Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
2021
Cost
At 1 July 2020 1,471,964 5,576,382 313,119 403,995 544,982 198,506 8,508,948
Additions [Note (i)] – – 187,871 – – – 187,871
Exchange differences – – – – – (9,255) (9,255)
At 30 June 2021 1,471,964 5,576,382 500,990 403,995 544,982 189,251 8,687,564
Accumulated Depreciation							
At 1 July 2020 248,833 1,714,289 8,698 16,833 83,843 46,429 2,118,925
Charge for the financial year 23,522 96,552 120,029 67,333 83,843 36,217 427,496
Exchange differences – – – – – (2,135) (2,135)
At 30 June 2021 272,355 1,810,841 128,727 84,166 167,686 80,511 2,544,286
Net Carrying Amount							
At 30 June 2021 1,199,609 3,765,541 372,263 319,829 377,296 108,740 6,143,278
* Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
96
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)
(i) Acquisition of right-of-use assets are satisfied by the following:-
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Cash payments				 85,043 –
Lease arrangement				 280,779 187,871
					 365,822 187,871
(ii) The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as follows:-
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 			 475,654 427,496
Gain on lease modification				 (2,230) –
Gain on lease termination				 (5,526) –
Interest expense on lease liabilities				 29,179 30,887
Short-term leases				 604,405 396,696
Lease of low value assets				 173,302 321,100
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost
At beginning/end of the year				 42,501,620 42,501,620
			
Accumulated impairment loss
At beginning/end of the year				 (4,468,003) (4,468,003)
					 38,033,617 38,033,617
Capital contribution to subsidiaries
At beginning of the year				 51,221,633 27,944,343
Addition				 – 23,277,290
At end of the year				 51,221,633 51,221,633
Accumulated impairment loss			
At beginning of the year				 – –
Addition				 (4,374,609) –
At end of the year				 (4,374,609) –
Net capital contribution				 46,847,024 51,221,633
Net carrying amount				 84,880,641 89,255,250
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
97
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)
Capitalcontributiontosubsidiariesrepresentsamountsduefromsubsidiarieswhicharenon-tradeinnature,unsecured
and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
As these amounts are in substance, represent additional investments in the subsidiaries, they are stated at cost less
accumulated impairment losses.
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Effective equity interest
Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and export of canned
 food and drinks
Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of canned food, drinks
 and confectioneries
Fika Foods Corporation
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Summit Teamtrade (2011)
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture of biscuit
P.T. Rex Canning * # Indonesia 100 100 Manufacture and export of canned
 food
Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of manufactured biscuit
Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Best Aqua Food Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Cinta Edar (Selatan)
 Sdn. Bhd. @
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Fika Foods Marketing
 Sdn. Bhd. @
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
Gainasia International
 Limited * ^
British Virgin
Islands
100 100 Dormant
* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# In prior year, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning. The 30% equity interest held
by Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. was transferred to Fika Foods Corporation Sdn. Bhd. during the financial year.
^ The financial statements is reviewed for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ The Directors of the respective subsidiaries have approved to strike off these subsidiaries and is pending for
submission to the Companies Commission of Malaysia pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016.
Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries
As at 30 June 2022, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment in certain
subsidiaries due to their persistent loss-making and significant accumulated losses position. This has resulted in an
impairment loss of RM4,374,609 (30.06.2021: Nil) being recognised as “other expenses” line item in the Company’s
statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022. The recoverable amounts of the
subsidiaries were derived based on fair value less costs of disposal which were measured based on the net assets
of respective subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
98
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
12. OTHER INVESTMENT
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
At fair value through profit or loss
Quoted shares
At beginning of the year		 – 754,000 – 754,000
Disposal		 – (754,000) – (754,000)
At end of the year		 – – – –
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Cost 		
At beginning/end of the year				 11,378,743 11,378,743
			
Accumulated impairment loss			
At beginning/end of the year				 (4,341,263) (4,341,263)
Net carrying amount				 7,037,480 7,037,480
Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Manufacturing of canned food 				 7,037,480 7,037,480
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents the lowest level
within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on VIU calculations determined by discounting
future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget for 2023 and
projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(i) Budgeted gross margin
The budgeted gross margin is 15% (2021: 15%). Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted
period.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
99
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows: (Cont’d)
(ii) Weighted average growth rate
The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 7% (2021: 5%). Revenue growth is projected
based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well as taking into
consideration of future demand outlook.
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate
A pre-tax discount rate of 10.1% (2021: 10.0%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the Company as well as
taking into consideration of country risk premium.
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably possible
changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in determining
the recoverable amounts of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity analysis performed, management concluded that no
reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amounts of the units
to be materially below their carrying amounts.
 
14. INVENTORIES
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
At cost:			
Raw materials 			 21,826,500 21,973,426
Manufactured inventories				 24,679,076 20,752,337
Packing materials				 10,783,461 9,850,807
Consumables				 1,895,774 1,326,858
Inventories in transit				 38,280 –
					 59,223,091 53,903,428
Less: Allowance for inventories obsolescence			
(raw materials, packaging and consumables)			
At beginning of the year				 (1,787,209) (2,445,509)
Addition				 (37,102) –
Reversal				 563,116 658,300
Written off				 355,041 –
At end of the year				 (906,154) (1,787,209)
Net carrying amount				 58,316,937 52,116,219
			
Inventories recognised in cost of sales				 106,973,325 106,453,886
Inventories written off				 – 658,300
The Group has made reversal of previously made slow-moving inventories of RM563,116 as the consumables are
being utilised for relevant goods of production during the year. The amount reversed has been included in “other
income” line item in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
100
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
15. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Trade receivables, gross				 37,068,632 36,083,834
Less: Allowance for impairment loss			
At beginning of the year				 (2,720,062) (3,527,638)
Additions				 (31,466) –
Reversal				 3,626 15,517
Written off				 88,065 792,059
At end of the year				 (2,659,837) (2,720,062)
Trade receivables, net				 34,408,795 33,363,772
The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90 days). Other credit
terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.
Trade receivables amounted to RM8,745,048 (2021: RM8,239,730) are held as security for bankers’ acceptance
facilities as disclosed in Note 21.
16. OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Sundry receivables, gross		 2,264,768 4,017,124 – –
Less: Allowance for impairment loss
At beginning of the year		 (2,535,767) (2,535,767) – –
Additions		 (75,361) – – –
Reversal		 1,143,733 – – –
At end of the year		 (1,467,395) (2,535,767) – –
Sundry receivables, net		 797,373 1,481,357 – –
Deposits (i) 2,479,362 305,615 – –
Prepayments (ii) 3,473,857 1,338,803 235,497 20,648
Amount due from related party (iii) – 19,000 – –
Other receivables, net		 6,750,592 3,144,775 235,497 20,648
(i) Included in deposits of the Group are deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to RM2,267,000
(2021: Nil).
(ii) Included in prepayments of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM1,581,074 (2021:
RM671,225).
(iii) In prior year, this amount related to rental receivable from Directors’ related company.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
101
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
17. AMOUNTS DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
Company
				 2022 2021
			 Note RM RM
Amounts due from subsidiaries:
Non-trade, gross			 (i) 13,731,050 15,116,918
Less: Allowance for impairment loss				
At beginning of the year				 – –
Additions				 (1,564,836) –
At end of the year				 (1,564,836) –
Amounts due from subsidiaries, net				 12,166,214 15,116,918
Amounts due to subsidiaries:				
Non-trade			 (ii) (2,999,923) (2,963,318)
(i) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances which are collectible on demand.
(ii) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances which are repayable on demand.
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(i) The effective interest rates of the fixed deposit ranging from 1.70% to 2.15% (2021: 2.13%) per annum with
maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2021: 6 months).
(ii) In prior year, short-term fund represented investment in highly liquid money market instrument and deposits
with financial institution in Malaysia. The short-term fund is subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
The distribution income from this fund was tax exempted and was being treated as interest income by the
Group. The effective interest rate of the short-term fund was 3.12 % per annum.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
102
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
19. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of shares Amount
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 Unit Unit RM RM
Ordinary shares
Issued and fully paid
At beginning of the financial year		 493,252,936 246,626,468 97,903,444 73,742,421
Issuance of ordinary shares		 – 246,626,468 – 24,161,023
At end of the financial year		 493,252,936 493,252,936 97,903,444 97,903,444
In prior year, the Company increased its issued and paid up ordinary shares from RM73,742,421 to RM97,903,444
by way of the issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10 per share for working
capital purposes, repayment of bank borrowings, upgrade of machineries and netted off with issuance expenses
of RM501,624. The new ordinary shares issued in prior year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing issued
ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual interests.
20. TRANSLATION RESERVE
The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign subsidiaries.
 
21. BORROWINGS
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Non-current
Term loans (secured)				 9,272,106 10,515,773
Current
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				 1,282,896 871,983
Bankers’ acceptance - unsecured				 4,264,000 5,070,000
- secured				 8,745,048 8,239,730
Revolving credit (unsecured)				 3,000,000 3,000,000
Term loans (secured)				 1,240,121 1,186,821
					 18,532,065 18,368,534
					 27,804,171 28,884,307
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
103
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)
Maturity profile of borrowings:
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
On demand or within 1 year				 18,532,065 18,368,534
More than 1 year and less than 5 years 			 3,943,236 4,552,356
More than 5 years				 5,328,870 5,963,417
				 27,804,171 28,884,307
Term loans
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Term loan 1 (1)				 1,806,561 2,344,764
Term loan 2 (1)				 593,529 761,015
Term loan 3 (2)				 8,112,137 8,596,815
					 10,512,227 11,702,594
Repayment of term loans:
Within one year				 1,240,121 1,186,821
More than 1 year and less than 2 years 			 1,292,326 1,235,813
More than 2 years and less than 5 years 			 2,650,910 3,316,542
More than 5 years				 5,328,870 5,963,418
					 10,512,227 11,702,594
(1) Conventional term loan			
(2) Islamic term loan			
			
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
104
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)
Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:
					 2022 2021
					
% %
Bank overdrafts				 BLR* + 1.5 BLR* + 1.5
Bankers’ acceptance				 4.02 - 4.50 3.86 - 4.90
Revolving credit				 4.00 4.13
Term loans:			
- Conventional				 BLR* - 1.5 BLR* - 1.5
- Islamic				 BFR# - 1.25 BFR# - 1.25
* BLR - Base Lending Rate
# BFR - Base Financing Rate
Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-
(i) charge over certain property, plant and equipment of the Group as disclosed in Note 9;
(ii) a corporate guarantee of the Company; and
(iii) certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
At beginning of the year				 1,507,883 1,525,409
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7)				 (15,995) (17,526)
At end of the year				 1,491,888 1,507,883
This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Deferred tax liabilities:
Difference between net carrying amount of 			
 property, plant and equipment and its tax base 		 3,082,241 4,744,700
Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment 			 2,380,188 2,420,983
					 5,462,429 7,165,683
Deferred tax assets:			
Unutilised tax losses				 (54,668) (308,400)
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 (3,888,173) (4,928,200)
Other deductible temporary differences				 (27,700) (421,200)
					 (3,970,541) (5,657,800)
					 1,491,888 1,507,883
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
105
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (cont’d)
The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the financial
statements are as follows:
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Unutilised tax losses				 27,515,800 25,544,700
Unabsorbed capital allowances				 598,371 384,300
Other deductible temporary differences 			 899,300 2,612,700
					 29,013,471 28,541,700
23. 	LEASE LIABILITIES
			 Hostel Factory Motor
			 Rental Rental Vehicles Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Minimum lease payables
Within 1 year		 148,400 90,000 54,283 292,683
More than 1 year but less than 2 years 48,600 90,000 50,588 189,188
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		 – 135,000 50,588 185,588
More than 5 years		 – – 54,803 54,803
			 197,000 315,000 210,262 722,262
Less: Future finance charges		 (3,210) (11,982) (43,923) (59,115)
Present value of lease payables		 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
Present value of lease payables
Within 1 year		 145,638 84,233 43,189 273,060
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		 48,152 86,087 39,940 174,179
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		 – 132,698 39,940 172,638
More than 5 years		 – – 43,270 43,270
Present value of lease payables		 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
Analysed as:
Current portion		 145,638 84,233 43,189 273,060
Non-current portion		 48,152 218,785 123,150 390,087
			 193,790 303,018 166,339 663,147
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
106
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
23. 	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)
Hostel Office Factory Motor
		 Rental Rental Rental Vehicles Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Cont’d)
2021
Minimum lease payables
Within 1 year 172,800 72,000 90,000 21,426 356,226
More than 1 year but less than 2 years 163,800 72,000 90,000 3,570 329,370
More than 2 years but less than 5 years 48,600 198,000 225,000 – 471,600
		 385,200 342,000 405,000 24,996 1,157,196
Less: Future finance charges (10,055) (17,776) (19,564) (3,019) (50,414)
Present value of lease payables 375,145 324,224 385,436 21,977 1,106,782
Present value of lease payables
Within 1 year 166,125 65,436 82,418 18,838 332,817
More than 1 year but less than 2 years 160,868 66,910 84,233 3,139 315,150
More than 2 years but less than 5 years 48,152 191,878 218,785 – 458,815
Present value of lease payables 375,145 324,224 385,436 21,977 1,106,782
Analysed as:
Current portion 166,125 65,436 82,418 18,838 332,817
Non-current portion 209,020 258,788 303,018 3,139 773,965
		 375,145 324,224 385,436 21,977 1,106,782
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
107
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
23.	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)
The range of interest rates per annum at the reporting date for the lease liabilities are as follows:
Hostel Office Factory Motor
			 Rental Rental * Rental Vehicles
			 % % % %
Group
2022
Effective interest rate		 2.25 NA 2.20 4.68 - 4.96
2021
Effective interest rate		 2.25 2.25 2.20 4.68
* Office rental has been terminated during the financial year.
24. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90
days).
25. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
Note RM RM RM RM
Sundry payables		 5,020,346 3,406,911 179,498 6,394
Accruals		 4,018,329 4,850,971 75,874 76,590
Provision for staff termination benefits		 306,210 – – –
Retirement benefits (i) 2,720,305 2,601,218 – –
Amounts due to Directors (ii) 8,603,808 4,323,798 – 118,510
Amounts due to related parties (iii) 605,056 675,708 – –
			 21,274,054 15,858,606 255,372 201,494
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
108
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
25. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)
(i) Retirement benefits
A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit plans that
provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for employees.
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations			
At beginning of the year				 2,601,218 2,698,376
Current service cost and interest				 313,730 334,918
Past service cost				 (285,436) –
Actuarial gain in other comprehensive income			 – (306,288)
Exchange differences				 90,793 (125,788)
At end of the year				 2,720,305 2,601,218
Expense recognised in profit or loss
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Current service cost and interest				 313,730 334,918
Past service cost				 (285,436) –
					 28,294 334,918
The expense is recognised in the following line item in the statement of comprehensive income:-
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Staff costs				 28,294 334,918
Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
			
At beginning of the year				 706,800 400,512
Recognised during the year				 – 306,288
At end of the year				 706,800 706,800
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
109
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
25. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)
(i) Retirement benefits (Cont’d)
Actuarial assumptions
Group
				 2022 2021
				 % %
Discount rate				 7.22 6.82
Salary increment rate				 7.0 2.0
Disability rate				 5.0 5.0
Resignation rate			
 20 - 30 			 15% up to the 15% up to the
 31 - 40				 age of 30 and age of 30 and
 41 - 45				 decrease decrease
 46 - 50				 linearly to 0% linearly to 0%
 51 - 54				 at retirement at retirement
 > 55				 age age
(ii) These amounts are unsecured, interest free advances which are repayable on demand.
(iii) These amounts mainly relate to transportation charges and warehouse management fee payable to Directors’
related companies.
26. REBATE LIABILITY
Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against amounts
payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.
27. DIVIDENDS
On 8 October 2021, the Directors declared an interim single tier dividend of RM0.002 per ordinary share for the
financial year ended 30 June 2021 amounting to RM986,505, which was subsequently paid by the Company on 9
November 2021.
28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and to the Company
if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence
over the party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the
party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be individuals or other
entities.
The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties and key
management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the Company have substantial
financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
110
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)
Related party balances and transactions
The related party balances are shown in Notes 16, 17 and 25 respectively. The related party transactions of the Group
and of the Company are shown below:
Company
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Transactions with subsidiaries:
Advances from				 36,605 –
Repayment from/(advances to)				 1,385,868 (24,413,982)
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Transactions with related parties:
Deposit paid for lease of office				 3,600 –
Short-term lease of office				 112,538 72,312
Purchase of goods				 33,272 –
Rental income				 (36,000) (19,000)
Transportation charges				 4,456,676 2,425,470
Travelling expenses				 23,524 26,470
Upkeep of motor vehicles				 95,961 52,317
Warehouse management				 254,400 341,320
Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management
personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as certain senior management
personnel of the Group and of the Company.
The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to key management personnel during the financial year are
as follows:
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Directors’ remuneration:
Fee and allowances		 182,010 184,510 71,710 184,510
Salaries and other emoluments		 903,660 510,971 – –
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 54,264 68,544 – –
Social security contributions		 676 923 – –
			 1,140,610 764,948 71,710 184,510
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
111
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)
Compensation of key management personnel (Cont’d)
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Key management personnel:
Salaries and other emoluments		 944,726 957,619 – –
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 30,708 76,767 – –
Social security contributions		 22,226 10,178 – –
			 997,660 1,044,564 – –
Total remuneration		 2,138,270 1,809,512 71,710 184,510
29. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Authorised and contracted for:			
Acquisition of machineries				 2,267,000 –
30. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
canned food, drinks and biscuits. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) reviews
internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis. Accordingly, information by operating
segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not presented.
Geographical area
The Group operates in four principal geographical areas – Malaysia (country of domicile), United States of America
(“USA”), Europe and Asia.
Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets respectively
are as follows:
Group Group
External revenue Non-current assets*
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Malaysia		 68,458,552 55,511,176 78,048,550 77,771,767
USA			 51,710,268 56,488,105 – –
Europe		 35,311,763 41,879,830 – –
Asia (excludes Malaysia)		 5,630,444 6,660,153 14,970,951 14,303,950
			 161,111,027 160,539,264 93,019,501 92,075,717
* Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
112
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of Financial Instruments
The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets (excluding prepayments) and financial liabilities are all categorised
as amortised costs.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
risk and foreign currency risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability
of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group. Management continually monitors the Group’s risk
management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between risk and control is achieved. Risk management
policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the market conditions and the Group’s activities.
There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it manages and
measures the risk.
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its
contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the individual characteristics
of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to
subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior years.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business partners with
good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full) when there is
no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does
not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject
to write-off.
Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year. 
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying
amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
113
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Trade receivables (Cont’d)
Credit risk concentration profile
The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on an ongoing
basis.
The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 4 customers (2021: 3
customers) constituting 30% (2021: 22%) of gross trade receivables of the Group.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate actions
(including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to ensure that receivables that
are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable values.
The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at lifetime expected
credit losses as disclosed in Note 3(o)(i). The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual
and collective basis.
For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can be individually
managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has reasonable and supportable
information available to assess the impairment individually.
For collective assessment, the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision matrix for
collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit risk characteristics, the
number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have similar risk characteristics.
Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable progressing
through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experienced over the
prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors. The Group
also considers differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historical data
has been collected, (b) current economic conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the
expected lives of the receivables.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
114
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Trade receivables (Cont’d)
Impairment losses
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as at
30 June 2022 and 30 June 2021:
				 Gross
				 carrying Loss
				 amount allowances Net balance
				 RM RM RM
Group
2022
Not past due			 19,958,039 (234,924) 19,723,115
Past due:					
- Less than 30 days			 5,733,277 (182,750) 5,550,527
- 31 to 90 days			 5,894,249 (311,826) 5,582,423
Credit impaired:					
- More than 90 days			 4,415,431 (862,701) 3,552,730
				 16,042,957 (1,357,277) 14,685,680
Credit impaired:					
- Individually impaired			 1,067,636 (1,067,636) –
				 37,068,632 (2,659,837) 34,408,795
2021
Not past due			 25,060,487 (194,450) 24,866,037
Past due:					
- Less than 30 days			 4,266,567 (268,446) 3,998,121
- 31 to 90 days			 2,537,412 (395,573) 2,141,839
Credit impaired:					
- More than 90 days			 3,183,198 (825,423) 2,357,775
				 9,987,177 (1,489,442) 8,497,735
Credit impaired:					
- Individually impaired			 1,036,170 (1,036,170) –
				 36,083,834 (2,720,062) 33,363,772
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
115
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Trade receivables (Cont’d)
Impairment losses (Cont’d)
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with good payment records
and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group.
Receivables that are past due but not impaired
The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as there have been
no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still considered recoverable. These trade
receivables relate mostly to customers with slower repayment patterns, for whom there is no history of default.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancement over these balances
Credit impaired
The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual and collective basis. For individual
assessment, the Group has reasonable and supportable information available to assess the impairment
individually. Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to have
higher credit risk, are monitored individually.
Trade receivables that are individually or collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These receivables are not secured by any
collateral or credit enhancements.
Inter-company loans and advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the abilities
of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from subsidiaries are
represented by their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. Loans and advances provided are
not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
116
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Inter-company loans and advances (Cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand, expected
credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date.
Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial positions deteriorate
significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of subsidiaries’ loans and advances
when they are payable, the Company considers the subsidiaries’ loans or advances to be credit impaired when
subsidiaries are unlikely to repay the loan or advances to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid
resources when the loans are demanded.
The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using internal
information available.
As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk given the
subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high probability of default
for the loans and advances to subsidiaries. As a result, the Company has provided allowances for ECLs on
amounts due from subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 17.
Other receivables
Expected credit loss of other receivable is determined individually after considering the financial strength of the
other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risks is represented by
their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The Group has provided allowances for expected
credit losses on these amounts as disclosed in Note 16.
Credit risk on deposits are mainly arising from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities deposit for
rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services and thus have low credit
risks. As at the end of the reporting period, no allowance for doubtful debts is necessary in respect of the
deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting period, the
maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the
subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
117
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(a) Credit risk (Cont’d)
Financial guarantees (Cont’d)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM19,243,127 (2021: RM20,704,431)
representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The
financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’ banking facilities.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial
positions deteriorate significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:-
- The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
- The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal
information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the probability of the financial
guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as the borrowings of the subsidiaries are
adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 21. Should the subsidiaries defaulted any loan repayments,
the proceeds from the realisation of assets will be able to satisfy the outstanding debts.
(b) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency of the Group entities, which is RM as disclosed in Note 2(c). The currencies giving
rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), Euro (“EUR”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) and Indonesian
Rupiah (“IDR”).
The Group also holds cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign purchases
as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group entities are
kept to an acceptable level.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
118
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional currency of the
Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period was:
		 Denominated in
			 USD EUR IDR Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
Trade receivables		 14,250,304 – – 14,250,304
Other receivables		 763,963 108,933 39,479 912,375
Cash and cash equivalents		 1,729,389 – – 1,729,389
Trade payables		 (8,942,129) – – (8,942,129)
Borrowings		 (8,745,048) – – (8,745,048)
			 (943,521) 108,933 39,479 (795,109)
		 Denominated in
			 USD SGD IDR Total
			 RM RM RM RM
2021
Trade receivables		 15,420,014 706,148 – 16,126,162
Other receivables		 157,785 – 39,479 197,264
Cash and cash equivalents 306,014 – – 306,014
Trade payables		 (10,918,797) – – (10,918,797)
Borrowings		 (8,239,730) – – (8,239,730)
			 (3,274,714) 706,148 39,479 (2,529,087)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
119
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis
The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign currencies as
at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:
Group
		 Increase/(Decrease)
					 2022 2021
					 RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 35,854 124,439
- Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 (35,854) (124,439)
			
RM/EUR - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%)				 (4,139) –
- Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 4,139 –
RM/SGD - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 – (26,834)
- Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%)				 – 26,834
			
RM/IDR - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 (1,500) (1,500)
- Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			 1,500 1,500
(c) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from
interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective interest
rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed in Notes 18, 21
and 23 respectively.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset:
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				 900,000 350,000
			
Financial liabilities:
- Lease liabilities				 (663,147) (1,106,782)
- Bankers’ acceptance				 (13,009,048) (13,309,730)
- Revolving credit				 (3,000,000) (3,000,000)
					 (15,772,195) (17,066,512)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
120
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(c) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
Exposure to interest rate risk (Cont’d)
The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period was: (Cont’d)
Group
				 2022 2021
				 RM RM
Floating rate instruments
Financial asset:
- Short-term fund				 – 1,777,373
			
Financial liabilities:			
- Bank overdrafts				 (1,282,896) (871,983)
- Term loans				 (10,512,227) (11,702,594)
					 (11,795,123) (10,797,204)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably possible
change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-
Group
		 Increase/(Decrease)
					 2022 2021
					 RM RM
Effect on results after tax/equity:			
Increase of 50 basis points (2021: 50 basis points)			 (44,821) (41,029)
Decrease of 50 basis points (2021: 50 basis points) 		 44,821 41,029
(d)	Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations
associated with financial liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily
from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s objective
are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity profile,
operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding
needs are met. In addition, the Group and the Company maintain sufficient levels of cash and available banking
facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet their working capital requirements.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
121
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(d)	Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based
on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
of the reporting period):
		 Contractual Cash Flows
			 On demand
		 Carrying or within			 More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022
Group
Bank overdrafts 1,282,896 1,282,896 – – – 1,282,896
Bankers’ acceptance 13,009,048 13,009,048 – – – 13,009,048
Revolving credit 3,000,000 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000
Term loans 10,512,227 1,660,716 1,660,716 3,475,379 6,220,316 13,017,127
Trade payables 19,823,659 19,823,659 – – – 19,823,659
Other payables 21,274,054 21,274,054 – – – 21,274,054
Lease liabilities 663,147 292,683 189,188 185,588 54,803 722,262
		 69,565,031 60,343,056 1,849,904 3,660,967 6,275,119 72,129,046
Company
Financial guarantee * – 10,207,612 1,660,716 3,475,378 3,899,421 19,243,127
Other payables 255,372 255,372 – – – 255,372
Amounts due to subsidiaries 2,999,923 2,999,923 – – – 2,999,923
		 3,255,295 13,462,907 1,660,716 3,475,378 3,899,421 22,498,422
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
122
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)
(d)	Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based
on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
of the reporting period): (Cont’d)
		 Contractual Cash Flows
			 On demand
		 Carrying or within			 More than
		 amount 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2021
Group
Bank overdrafts 871,983 871,983 – – – 871,983
Bankers’ acceptance 13,309,730 13,309,730 – – – 13,309,730
Revolving credit 3,000,000 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000
Term loans 11,702,594 1,648,739 1,648,739 4,251,351 7,101,885 14,650,714
Trade payables 20,003,757 20,003,757 – – – 20,003,757
Other payables 15,858,606 15,858,606 – – – 15,858,606
Lease liabilities 1,106,782 356,226 329,370 471,600 – 1,157,196
		 65,853,452 55,049,041 1,978,109 4,722,951 7,101,885 68,851,986
Company
Financial guarantee * – 10,590,722 1,648,739 4,251,351 4,213,619 20,704,431
Other payables 201,494 201,494 – – – 201,494
Amounts due to subsidiaries 2,963,318 2,963,318 – – – 2,963,318
		 3,164,812 13,755,534 1,648,739 4,251,351 4,213,619 23,869,243
* This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
123
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
32. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION
Financial instruments at fair value
As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any valuation
method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.
There was no material transfer between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the financial year.
Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value
Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of
fair values
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings
approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments and insignificant
impact of discounting.
The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be re-priced to
market interest rate on or near reporting date.
33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital. Net debt
includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents whilst total capital is equity attributable to
Owners of the Company.
The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2022 and 30 June 2021, which are within the Group’s objective of capital management
are as follows:
		 Group
					 2022 2021
					 RM RM
Borrowings (Note 21)				 27,804,171 28,884,307
Lease liabilities (Note 23)				 663,147 1,106,782
					 28,467,318 29,991,089
			
Less:			
- Cash and bank balances				 (7,890,165) (12,500,887)
- Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks 			 (900,000) (350,000)
- Short-term fund				 – (1,777,373)
					 (8,790,165) (14,628,260)
Total net debts				 19,677,153 15,362,829
Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company 		 129,714,375 127,404,424
Debt to equity ratio				 0.15 0.12
The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
 
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
124
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the following:
(i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., and the Company are required to comply
with the maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio
is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible networth (“TNW”), of which TNW is
defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties; and
(ii) Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times. For the purpose
of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total networth (less intangibles and
pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding company. Total bank borrowings encompasses
the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest free.
As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as mentioned
above.
34. EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF FINANCIAL YEAR
The Company has completed a fund-raising exercise subsequent to the financial year for a renounceable rights
issue for ordinary shares at RM0.10 per rights share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Shares held,
together with 54,805,881 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Right Shares subscribed. With 164,417,645
Rights Shares subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The Rights Shares were
listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.
35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation:
					 As previously As
reported reclassified
					 RM RM
2021			
Group
Statement of Comprehensive Income:
Staff costs				 (20,652,871) (20,837,381)
Other operating expenses				 (25,666,196) (25,481,686)
Statements of Financial Position:
Current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 			 78,903,357 78,894,959
Right-of-use assets				 6,134,880 6,143,278
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Cont’d)
125
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES (cont’d)
The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation: (Cont’d)
					 As previously As
reported reclassified
					 RM RM
2021 (Cont’d)
Group (Cont’d)
Statements of Cash Flows:
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Changes in working capital:
 Trade and other payables				 2,377,052 2,059,573
 Rebate liability				 – 317,479
Company
Statement of Comprehensive Income:			
Staff costs				 – (184,510)
Other operating expenses				 – (235,702)
Other expenses				 (420,212) –
		
Statement of Financial Position
Current Assets			
Other receivables				 15,137,566 20,648
Amounts due from subsidiaries				 – 15,116,918
		
Current Liabilities			
Other payables				 3,164,812 201,494
Amounts due to subsidiaries				 – 2,963,318
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD Annual Report 2022
126
LIST OF
PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2022
Location/
(Registered owner)
Description
(Lot/Title No)
Tenure
(Approx. age
of building)
Land area
(Built up)
sq. ft.
Date of
Acquisition/
*Revaluation
Net book Value
30/6/2022
(RM)
Plot 125,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial Land
with factory
60 years with
41 years
remaining
(19 years)
6.0052 Acre
(261,586)
sq. ft.
*30 August 2012 12,192,757
Plot 126,
Bukit Minyak
Industrial Park,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Pulau Pinang.
Industrial land 60 years with
51 years
remaining
(9 years)
1.74236
acre
*30 August 2012 7,714,907
JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,
Beji, Pasuraun, Jawa Timur,
Indonesia.
Industrial Land
with factory
50 years with
22 years
remaining
(26 years)
8,120
sq. meters
*30 November 2012 2,046,822
No. 00003, Desa Beji,
Kecamatan Beji,
Kabupaten Pasuruan,
Provinsi Jawa Timur, Indonesia.
Industrial Land 50 years with
20 years
remaining
15,310
sq. meters
13 August 2014 5,424,914
No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,
Taman Industri Alam Jaya,
Bandar Puncak Alam,
42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.
3 Storey
Semi-Detached
Factory
Type B
Leasehold 2,024
sq. meters
10 August 2016 4,315,311
22, Jalan Perniagaan
Seri Tambun,
Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Pulau Pinang.
3 Storey terrace
shop office
Freehold 149
sq. meters
5 August 2016 1,302,619
No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
Sungai Suloh,
Mukim Minyak Beku,
83000 Batu Pahat, Johor
Industrial land
with Factory
cum office
Freehold 2.3051
hectares
*26 September 2019 19,100,467
*I/We (Full Name),
bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
of (Full Address)
being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-
First Proxy “A”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
*and/or
Second Proxy “B”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./ Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
Represented
No. of Shares %
Full Address
100%
or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on *my/ our
behalf at the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at the Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf &
Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Tuesday, 29 November 2022 at 10:00 a.m. or at any
adjournment thereof.
(Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given,
the proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)
* Strike out whichever is inapplicable
No. Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 together with the Reports of the Directors
and the Auditors thereon.
For Against
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting to
RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 and thereafter.
(Resolution 1)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 30 November 2022
until the next AGM of the Company. (Resolution 2)
4(a). To re-elect Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause
115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.
(Resolution 3)
4(b). To re-elect Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.
(Resolution 4)
5(a). To re-elect Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 5)
5(b). To re-elect Mr. Kajendra Pathmanathan, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the
Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 6)
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. (Resolution7)
Special Business
7. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016. (Resolution 8)
8. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature. (Resolution 9)
9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares. (Resolution 10)
10. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director (Resolution 11)
Signed this day of , 2022
Signature of Member Common Seal to be affixed here if
		 Member is a corporation, if applicable
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
[Registration No. 199301027926 (282664-K)]
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of Ordinary Shares held
CDS Account No.
Telephone No.
Email Address
FORM OF PROXY
✄
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Eighth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 18 November 2022
shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and
vote in his stead.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and vote at the same
Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by
each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the
Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting
3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized in
writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under the hand
of an officer or attorney duly authorized.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or a duly
notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Securities Services
(Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490
Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any
adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and
voting in person at the 28th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy authority
in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement of the Meeting or
adjournment thereof.
Please refer to the Administrative Guide on the Conduct of a Physical General Meeting available for download at www.
rexmalaysia.com/ for further details.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial Statements to be
laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
✄
The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan.
