2 Notice of Annual General Meeting
7 Corporate Information
8 Profile of Directors
11 Profile of Key Senior Management
14 Corporate Governance Overview Statement
29 Sustainability Statement
34 Audit Committee Report
38 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for
Preparing The Financial Statements
39 Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
41 Additional Compliance Information
42 Management Discussion and Analysis
46 Analysis of Shareholdings
47 Thirty Largest Shareholders
  48 Corporate Structure
 49 Directors’ Report
 53 Statement by Directors
 54 Statutory Declaration
 55 Independent Auditors’ Report
 60 Statements of Comprehensive Income
 61 Statements of Financial Position
 63 Statements of Changes in Equity
 65 Statements of Cash Flows
 70		 Notes To The Financial Statements
130 Properties
		 Form of Proxy
CONTENTS
1
2
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Sixth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad will be held
at Function Room 1-3, Level 1, TPC Kuala Lumpur, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah
Persekutuan on Tuesday, 24 November 2020 at 10:00 a.m. for the following purposes:-
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020
together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting
to RM270,750.00 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2021
and thereafter.
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM100,000.00 from
25 November 2020 until the next AGM of the Company.
4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the
Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:-
(a) Mr. Tai Keat Chai; and
(b) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun.
5. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following Ordinary
Resolutions:-
		
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
- AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements, the
Constitution of the Company and subject to the approvals of the relevant governmental/
regulatory authorities, Directors be and are hereby empowered to issue and allot shares
in the Company, at any time to such persons and upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the
aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to this Resolution does not exceed twenty per
centum (20%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company (excluding Treasury
Shares) for the time being and the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa Securities;
AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this Resolution
and continue to be in force until 31 December 2021, as empowered by Bursa Securities
pursuant to its official letter dated 16 April 2020 to grant additional temporary relief measures
to listed issuers, notwithstanding Section 76(3) of the Act, be duly varied and adopted by the
Directors of the Company pursuant to Section 76(4) of the Act.”
(Resolution 1)
(Resolution 2)
(Resolution 3)
(Resolution 4)
(Resolution 5)
(Resolution 6)
(Please refer to the
Notes No. 6)
Notice of Annual General Meeting
3
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDER MANDATE FOR RECURRENT
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
“THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter
into and to give effect to the category of the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue
or trading nature from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in Section 2.5 of the
Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2020, provided that such transactions
are:-
(i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;
(ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;
(iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms which are not
more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public; and
(iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,
(the “Mandate”);
AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this Resolution and shall
continue to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company following
this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which time it will lapse, unless by an
ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that date
it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the
Act”) (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section
340(4) of the Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company
in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier;
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such acts and
things (including executing all such documents as may be required), as they may consider
expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
(Resolution 7)
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(Continued)
4
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
- PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS OWN
SHARES
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements
and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations and guidelines for the time being in force
and the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities, approval be
and is hereby given to the Company to purchase such number of ordinary shares as may be
determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon
such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit, necessary and expedient in the
interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided
that:-
(a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by the Company
pursuant to this Resolution shall not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares of the Company as quoted on Bursa Securities as at the point of purchase;
and
(b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing its
ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits of the Company based on
the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest unaudited financial statements
(where applicable) available at the time of the purchase.
THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this Resolution and shall continue
to be in force until:-
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company following
this AGM at which this Resolution was passed, at which time it will lapse, unless
by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed, either
unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that date
is required by law to be held; or
(iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company
in a general meeting;
whichever occurs first;
AND THAT upon completion of the purchase by the Company of its own ordinary shares, the
Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the ordinary shares purchased in their
absolute discretion in the following manners:-
(a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or
(b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution as dividend to the
shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa Securities and/or transfer under an
employees’ share scheme (if any) and/or transfer as purchase consideration; and/or
(c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or
in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders made pursuant to
the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any other relevant authority for the time
being in force.
(Resolution 8)
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(Continued)
5
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts, deeds
and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the Company
to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or amendments as may be imposed
by the relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all such acts and things as they
may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”
9. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board
CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689)/SSM PC NO.: 201908002648
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735)/SSM PC NO.: 201908003120
Company Secretaries
Dated: 30 October 2020
Explanatory Notes to Special Business:
1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016
The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Fifth AGM of the Company held on 19
November 2019 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.
The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to the
Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a general meeting provided that
the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed twenty per centum (20%) of the total number of issued shares of the
Company for the time being (hereinafter referred to as the “20% General Mandate”).
As part of the initiative from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) to aid and facilitate listed issuers in sustaining
their business or easing their compliance with Bursa Securities’ rules, amid the unprecedented uncertainty surrounding the recovery
of the Coronavirus disease (“Covid-19”) pandemic and Movement Control Order imposed by the Government, Bursa Securities
had vide Bursa Securities’ letter dated 16 April 2020 allow a listed issuer to seek a higher general mandate under Paragraph 6.03
of Bursa Securities Main Market Listing Requirements for not more than twenty per centum (20%) of the total number of issued
shares (excluding treasury shares) for the general issue of new securities. In addition, Bursa Securities has also accorded that the
20% General Mandate may be utilised by a listed issuer to issue new securities until 31 December 2021 (hereinafter referred to as
the “Extended Utilisation Period”).
The 20% General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, would expire at the end of the
Extended Utilisation Period, i.e., by 31 December 2021.
After having considered all aspects of the 20% General Mandate, the Board was of the opinion that the adoption of the 20%
General Mandate would be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders, on the following basis:-
(i) There should be alignment between the interest of the shareholders as well as the interest of the Company in respect of
the sustainability of the Company in view that resilient business operations with healthy and sufficient working capital could
generate positive returns to the Company and its shareholders;
(ii) Given the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent imposition of the Movement Control Order by the Malaysian
Government to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the outlook of the economy in general would have been less than stellar,
where the financial institutions would be more cautious in granting loans/facilities for working capital purposes, the additional
fund raising flexibility through the 20% General Mandate would enable the Company, should it require to do so, to meet its
funding requirements for working capital and operational expenditure or even new business opportunity, expeditiously and
efficiently, without burdening the shareholders with a separate general meeting during this challenging period.
(iii) The Extended Utilisation Period accorded by Bursa Securities has provided flexibility to the cash flow planning of the Company
should the Company requires additional funding for its manufacturing activities, introduction of new products and/or
execution of business contingency strategies to mitigate the financial impact of Covid-19 pandemic.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(Continued)
6
Explanatory Notes to Special Business (Continued):
2. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature
The proposed Resolution 7 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent related
party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations, subject to the
transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to the
Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the
Company.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2020 for more information.
3. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares
The proposed Resolution 8 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%) of the total
number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Securities Main Market Listing
Requirements.
Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2020 for more information.
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Sixth AGM (“Meeting”):
1. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting, the
Company shall be requesting the Record of Depositors as at 13 November 2020. Only members whose names appear in the
Record of Depositors as at 13 November 2020 shall be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting of the
Company.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company, shall be entitled to appoint proxies to attend, participate,
speak and vote instead of him. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, he shall specify the proportions of his
shareholdings to be represented by each proxy, failing which the appointment shall be invalid.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds deposited securities in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing, under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorised in writing
or, if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under the hand of an officer
or attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially
certified true copy of that power of authority, shall be deposited at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar
Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan or submitted via fax at +603-2094 9940 and/or
+603-2095 0292 or emailed to info@sshsb.com.my, not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
meeting or adjourned meeting i.e., on or before Sunday, 22 November 2020 at 10:00 a.m. and in default, the instrument of
proxy shall not be treated as valid.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal approval
of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the
Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
7. Pursuant to Section 320(2) of the Companies Act 2016, a copy of this Notice together with the Form of Proxy are available at the
corporate website of the Company at www.rexmalaysia.com.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(Continued)
7
Corporate Information
Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT
(LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)
Chartered Accountants
Unit 3.3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3, Mutiara Damansara,
47810 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone no. : +603-7728 1800
Facsimile no. : +603-7728 9800
AUDITORS
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
[199701005827 (36869-T)]
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
Telephone no. : +603-2084 9000
Facsimile no. : +603-2094 9940/+603-2095 0292
Contact person : Mr. Wong Piang Yoong
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tai Keat Chai
Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Member
Adnan bin Ahmad
Member
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad [198401015221 (127776-V)]
Malayan Banking Berhad [196001000142 (3813-K)]
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Berhad [199301017069
(271809-K)]
Hong Leong Bank Berhad [193401000023 (97141-X)]
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Chairman
Tai Keat Chai
Member
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
SOLICITORS
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Chairman
Tai Keat Chai
Member
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Plot 125, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Seberang Perai Tengah,
Penang, Malaysia
Telephone no. : +604-508 8288
Facsimile no. : +604-508 8567
Email : support@rexmalaysia.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
Chua Siew Chuan (MAICSA 0777689)
SSM PC No.: 201908002648
Yeow Sze Min (MAICSA 7065735)
SSM PC No.: 201908003120
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Listed on the Main Market of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 9946
Stock Name : REX
Sector : Consumer Products & Services
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive Director,
Group Managing Director
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
8
Profile of Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, aged 77, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on
30 June 2014. He is the Chairman of the Board, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee and a member of
the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a graduate from the British Institute of Management and Institute of Marketing, United
Kingdom, and holds a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Ohio in the United States of America.
Upon Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s graduation in 1965, he joined University Technology MARA (formerly known as Institute
of Technology MARA) as a lecturer and headed its school of business and then became its dean of academic. He was
subsequently appointed as a Council Member/Director, a position which he held until October 2006.
Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had served as Chief Executive Officer of Amanah International Finance Berhad,
Amanah Chase Merchant Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Setron (Malaysia)
Berhad, Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries Berhad, Pan Malaysia Industries Berhad, Pan
Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan Malaysia Capital Berhad, Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad and Kawan Food Berhad,
Deputy Chairman of Metrojaya Berhad and Director of K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad and AMMB Holdings Berhad.
Currently, the only directorship of Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim in other public companies and listed issuers is Censof Holdings
Berhad.
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director
Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, aged 59, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company and as the Group
Managing Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia with a Business Degree majoring in Accounting. He is also
a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He spent ten
(10) years as Group Manager in the Audit Division of an international public accounting firm from 1985 to 1995.
Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering & Construction Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the General Manager
of the Finance and Corporate Planning Division in 1996 and successfully listed Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went on to restructure and list Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in June 1997. He was later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August 1997. In year 2007,
he, together with his partner, took Safeguards private.
Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”)
and its group of subsidiaries prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2009.
He was redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August 2009 and continues to hold this position till present.
Mr. Darmendran had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
9
Chee Cheng Chun
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, aged 35, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 3 March 2015.
Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London with a Master of Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering. He worked as
Business Development Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”) before he was appointed to the Board of
KSTB. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Chee in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December
2016.
Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Tai Keat Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Tai Keat Chai, aged 66, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 6 March 2015. He is the
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration
Committee of the Company.
Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He began his career with KPMG
in London and moved on subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur. In 1981, he joined Alliance Investment Bank Berhad for
seven (7) years before venturing into stock-broking, working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd., AA Anthony Securities Sdn. Bhd.
and Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as General Manager, Director and dealer’s representative respectively.
Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in other public companies and listed issuers include Marine & General Berhad, Microlink
Solutions Berhad and MIDF Amanah Asset Management Berhad.
Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Adnan bin Ahmad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, aged 71, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 12 April 2018. He is
a member of the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.
Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial Relations. He started his career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan &
Mohamad in 1967. He then joined Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including Head of Human Resource
& Administration and Head of Administration and Regulatory and Premises. He was also the Chairman of Koperasi Pelaburan
Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement on 31 March 2014.
Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December 2016.
Encik Adnan had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Profile of Directors
(Continued)
10
Notes:
Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors has:-
1. any family relationship with any Director and/or Major Shareholder of the Company;
2. any conflict of interest with the Company; and
3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, or any public sanction or
penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Profile of Directors
(Continued)
11
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, aged 60, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn.
Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., subsidiaries of the Company, on 1 June 2018.
Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in Management Programme. He has more than thirty (30) years of experience in
the fast-moving consumer goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and marketing and business re-engineering. Prior to
joining the Group, he held various senior sales and marketing positions in companies such as Rothmans of Pall Mall Berhad,
British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad and Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head the sustainable
development division at IRIS Corporation Berhad for five (5) years. He joined the Group in October 2017 as the Marketing
Director prior to assuming his current role as Chief Executive Officer.
Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Sandra Lim Geik Fong
Chief Financial Officer of Rex Industry Berhad
Ms. Sandra Lim Geik Fong, aged 46, a Malaysian, female, was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company on
1 September 2014.
Ms. Sandra is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and a fellow member of the Association
of Chartered Certified Accountants, United Kingdom. She started her career as an auditor in an audit firm. She then joined
the Company in 1999 as an Assistant Accountant and assumed various positions in the Finance Division with increasing
responsibilities until her promotion as the Group Accountant in January 2001 before she was promoted as Chief Financial
Officer.
Ms. Sandra does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Leslie Chng Theng Tat
Chief Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
Mr. Leslie Chng Theng Tat, aged 61, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the Chief Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co.
Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of the Company, on 15 April 2019.
Mr. Leslie holds a Sales Management Certificate from the Marketing Council of Australia and has over thirty-seven (37) years
of experience in the fast-moving consumer goods industry.
Mr. Leslie started his career with Rothmans of Pall Mall, which later became British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad,
where he helmed various portfolios including key accounts, brand management, channel and merchandising and marketing
operations. He also spent four (4) years in Thailand as marketing director cum country manager of the London American
Tobacco Company Limited from 2014 to 2018. Prior to joining the Group, he was a senior manager with Mobile Kiosk Sdn.
Bhd., a major distributor of mobile phone accessories to the modern trade.
Mr. Leslie does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Profile of Key Senior Management
12
Nicky Ng Voon Tiak
General Manager of the Sales and Marketing Division of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
Mr. Nicky Ng Voon Tiak, aged 53, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the General Manager of the Sales and Marketing
Division of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of the Company, in May 2017.
Mr. Nicky graduated from University of Adelaide (majoring in Economics) and attended MIM (Business Management) to
enhance his knowledge in sales and marketing.
Mr. Nicky started his career with companies such as Canon, Marigold, Yakult and Spritzer. He joined the Group in 2017,
after having more than twenty-two (22) years of experience in the fast-moving consumer goods industry, mainly focusing
on consumables and food and beverages for the local and export markets.
Mr. Nicky does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Chu Seang Ming
General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia
Mr. Chu Seang Ming, aged 53, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, a subsidiary
of the Company, on 1 May 1998.
Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration, Marketing from Washington International University and various
certifications, which include Indonesia Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994), FDA/USDA Better Process
Control School, Indonesia (1995), NOAA – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000) and HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia
(2000).
Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food manufacturer based in Perak as a Factory Quality Controller where he
undertook laboratory quality control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a
subsidiary of the Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as its
Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was tasked with establishing and setting up a new processing plant
and operations for the Rex Group in People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods
Ltd. Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of the general management of P.T. Rex Canning.
Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Chris Kong Wai Fa
General Manager of the Procurement, Logistic and Warehouse of Rex Industry Berhad
Ms. Chris Kong Wai Fa, aged 56, a Malaysian, female, was appointed as the General Manager of the Procurement, Logistic
and Warehouse of the Company on 1 June 2016.
Ms. Chris started her career in the Finance Department of a logistics business in 1983, working her way up to operations,
sales and eventually becoming the Chief Executive Officer of a logistics company involved in land, sea and air transport,
forwarding and warehousing.
Ms. Chris does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.
Profile of Key Senior Management
(Continued)
13
Notes:
Save as disclosed above, none of the Key Senior Management has:-
1. any family relationship with any Director and/or Major Shareholder of the Company;
2. any conflict of interest with the Company; and
3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, or any public sanction or
penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Profile of Key Senior Management
(Continued)
14
The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (the “Board”) recognises the importance of
practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and to protect and
enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”).
The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (the “Statement”) to provide an
overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set out in the new Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3) key principles, under the stewardship
of the Board:-
a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.
This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG Report of the Company for the
financial year ended 30 June 2020 (“FYE 2020”) published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
Intended Outcome 1.0
Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership and
is collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.
1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group Managing
Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group with the support of a
senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the operations, issues faced and action
plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast on the conduct, business activities and development
of the Company and to discuss and advise the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term
and long-term business strategies. Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the
objectives to be met and how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources
are efficiently and effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s
values and standards.
		 To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
responsibilities to three (3) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee
(“ARMC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”). The Board Committees assist
the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions and
terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved by the Board.
The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions
deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
15
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (Continued)
		 To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the Company during
the FYE 2020, the Board had, amongst others:-
		 (a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
behaviour;
		 (b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals and monitored their implementation by
the Management;
		 (c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and sustainability;
		 (d) supervised and assessed Management performance regularly;
		 (e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
		 (f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to ensure that
the risks are properly managed;
		 (g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key positions;
		 (h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with stakeholders; and
		 (i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.
1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive Director
(“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group and to
monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.
		 Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-
		 (a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for the
Board decisions;
		 (b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged constructive
discussions and effective contribution from each Director;
		 (c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;
		 (d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance practices within
the Group;
		 (e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely expressed;
		 (f) chaired the general meetings of the Company and committed to answering the queries from the
shareholders;
		 (g) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and that their
views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and improvement, if any;
		 (h) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth communication
flow between both parties; and
		 (i) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability and in any
marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.
1.3 The positions of the Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with clear
accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to ensure a balance of
power and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
		 The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight of Management
as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has overall responsibilities over the
business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the Board’s policies and
decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in the Company’s Board Charter.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
16
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (Continued)
1.4 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, namely
		 Ms. Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per Section 235(2)(a)
of the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators.
		 The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by a dedicated team of
secretarial personnel.
		 During the FYE 2020, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities accordingly.
They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the capital market, CG, and
other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory environment through continuous training
and industry updates.
		 The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the Board in
discharging their functions and duties.
1.5 While the Management strives to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business days in
advance, there had been instances where the financial reports and other documents could not be ready on
time.
		 Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and accurate
record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the Company Secretaries
to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their review and for them to seek for
clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board or Board Committee meeting.
		 Upon signature by the Chairmen of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the Board or
Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of the Company to be
made available for inspection.
		 The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate information to
the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge their duties and
responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting materials are circulated at
least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.
17
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (Continued)
Intended Outcome 2.0
There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.
There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October 2018 and
includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details the responsibilities of
the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management limitations, as well as an outline on
what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles and responsibilities as Board Members. With
this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of the Directors and the Management are clearly set out
in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.
		 The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
		 Following the renaming of the Audit Committee (“AC”) to ARMC on 30 September 2019, the TOR of the
ARMC has been approved by the Board on 19 November 2019 for adoption.
		 The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and matters
deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee meetings and
reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the Board during Board
meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.
		 The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
		Activities of the NC
		 During the FYE 2020, the NC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-
		 (i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NC meeting held;
		 (ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character, experience,
integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a comprehensive
assessment system;
		 (iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees;
		 (iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
		 (v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
		 (vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring independent
and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
		 (vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the AGM; and
		 (viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.
		 During the FYE 2020, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes of deliberating
on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important matters. During the
Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group and other strategic issues
that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members were invited to attend some of
the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.
18
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (Continued)
The NC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee meetings.
Upon review, the NC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time and effort to
attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2020.
The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2020 is set out below:-
		 Directors Directorship Board ARMC NC RC
		
		 Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim INED 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1
		 bin Mohd Zain
		 Tai Keat Chai INED 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1
Adnan bin Ahmad INED 5/5 5/5 Not Not
						 Member Member
		 Darmendran Kunaretnam Non-Independent 5/5 Not Not Not
			 Executive Director		 Member Member Member
		 Chee Cheng Chun Non-INED 5/5 Not Not Not
					 Member Member Member
		 In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance their
skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.
		 The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-
• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed by
the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;
• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their
knowledge on the latest regulatory and business environment; and
• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.
		 Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education would be
the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to
meet the challenges ahead.
19
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (Continued)
		 During the FYE 2020, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-
Intended Outcome 3.0
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate
culture that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered acceptable
behaviour and practice in the Company.
3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-
• Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and
• Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility based
on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.
		 Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.
		 The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a Whistleblowing Policy to facilitate the Company’s employees
and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud, waste of the Company’s
resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.
		 Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should be made
in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are substantially true and
the report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will be viewed seriously and if proven
may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.
		 During the FYE 2020, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
abovementioned communication and feedback channels.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
Name of Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
bin Mohd Zain
Tai Keat Chai
Adnan bin Ahmad
Darmendran Kunaretnam
Chee Cheng Chun
Dates
3 October 2019
14 & 15 October 2019
3 June 2020
3 June 2020
3 June 2020
Description of Training Programmes
ABC Dialogue with Sandiaga Uno - Indonesia’s
Polical Economy Outlook in ASEAN
International Directors Summit 2019:
The Trust Compass Resetting the Course
ISO Audit Training
ISO Audit Training
ISO Audit Training
20
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION
Intended Outcome 4.0
Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account diverse
perspectives and insights.
4.1 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-INED and one (1) Non-Independent Executive
Director.
		 The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate a balanced
leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to safeguard the interests of the
Company and its stakeholders.
4.2 None of the existing Independent Directors of the Company has exceeded the tenure of a cumulative term of
nine (9) years in the Company as at 30 June 2020.
		 Notwithstanding the above, the NC has assessed the independence of the Independent Directors and monitors
the tenure of the Independent Directors annually.
4.3 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
a step-up practice.
4.4 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer
greater depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management level.
		
		 The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of senior
management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven by any age,
cultural background or gender considerations.
		 While there is no female director on the Board, there are two (2) female members in the senior management
team at present.
4.5 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy, the Board practices
non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports the representation of
women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the Company.
		 Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when
vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary aim of selecting
the best candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.
4.6 There is no new Director appointed to the Board during the FYE 2020.
		 The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when the need
arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board members, Management
and/or major shareholders.
4.7 The NC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the annual
review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of each individual
Director is independently assessed.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
21
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
II. BOARD COMPOSITION (Continued)
Intended Outcome 5.0
Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual
Directors.
5.1 During the FYE 2020, the Board, through the NC, had conducted the following annual assessments to
determine the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in the financial
year ended 30 June 2019 (“FYE 2019”):-
		(i) Directors’ self-assessment;
		 (ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
		 (iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
		 (iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
		 (v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.
		 Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2019, the NC was satisfied with the performance of
the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.
III. REMUNERATION
Intended Outcome 6.0
The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account the
Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to drive
the Company’s long-term objectives.
Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.
6.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred by the
RC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group MD, Non-Executive Directors
and other senior management personnel.
6.2 Currently, the RC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is presently
chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The RC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 18 October 2018.
22
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
III. REMUNERATION (Continued)
Intended Outcome 7.0
Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management
is commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s
performance.
7.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2020 in the Company and Group
levels respectively, is as follows:-
		(i) Company Level
Salaries and		
Name of Director other Directors’ Statutory Benefits- Bonus and
		 emoluments Fees contribution in-kind commission
		 (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam - - - - -
Total - - - - -
Non-Executive Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd - 48,600 - 2,500 -
Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 				
Tai Keat Chai - 96,000 - 2,500 -
Adnan bin Ahmad - 36,000 - 2,500 -
Chee Cheng Chun - 36,000 - 2,500 -
Total - 216,600 - 10,000 -
23
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
III. REMUNERATION (Continued)
7.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2020 in the Company and Group
levels respectively, is as follows (Continued):-
(ii) Group Level
Salaries and		
Name of Director other Directors’ Statutory Benefits- Bonus and
		 emoluments Fees contribution in-kind commission
		 (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam 749,700 - 120,876 - -
Total 749,700 - 120,876 - -
Non-Executive Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd - 48,600 - 2,500 -
Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 				
Tai Keat Chai - 96,000 - 2,500 -
Adnan bin Ahmad - 36,000 - 2,500 -
Chee Cheng Chun - 36,000 - 2,500 -
Total - 216,600 - 10,000 -
7.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management staff on a
named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the Group taking into consideration the
competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the
privacy of senior management staff.
7.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not be disclosed for
confidentiality purposes.
24
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AC
Intended Outcome 8.0
		 There is an effective and independent AC.
		 The Board is able to objectively review the AC’s findings and recommendations. The Company’s financial
statements are a reliable source of information.
8.1 During the FYE 2020, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman of the
Board is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the
Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.
8.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may arise when
a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and preparation of the
Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC (as approved by the Board on 19 November 2019)
and the Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors
(which was adopted on 18 October 2018) require a former key audit partner of the Company’s external
auditors to observe a minimum two (2)-year cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the
ARMC.
		 During the FYE 2020, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to uphold
the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit partner as a
member of the ARMC or Board.
8.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of
External Auditors’ that set out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability,
objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.
		 In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has considered the
following:-
		 (a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation to the
audit;
		 (b) Persons assigned to the audit;
		 (c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
		 (d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely
manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
		 (e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of fees; and
		 (f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been, independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional
and regulatory requirements.
		 The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective and independent to
be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted during the FYE 2020. The Board has in turn recommended
the same for shareholders’ approval at the Twenty-Fifth (“25th”) AGM of the Company.
8.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.
25
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
I. AC (Continued)
8.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding of the
Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the financial reporting process.
		 The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and fair view of
the Company’s financial position and performance.
		 All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous professional
development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and auditing standards,
practices and rules as and when required.
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Intended Outcome 9.0
Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement necessary
controls to pursue their objectives.
The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable future
event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.
9.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify, assess and
monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets by monitoring the
internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external auditors and the outsourced internal
auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control processes and procedures
periodically to ensure that the system is viable and robust.
		 The Board had on 30 September 2019 approved the Group’s risk management framework for adoption and
renaming of the AC to ARMC in order to reflect the duties and responsibilities of the ARMC in the area of risk
management and internal control.
9.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarise the results
of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment process of the Group.
		 The deliverables included in the internal audit reports had been discussed with the senior management of
the Group. The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus areas of
the Group. The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of the Board and
Management of the Company.
9.3 The Board had on 30 September 2019 approved the renaming of the AC to ARMC, which comprises solely of the
Independent Directors, to assist the Board in discharging the responsibilities and duties relating to accounting
and reporting practices as well as to monitor the overall risk management framework, the financial reporting
processes, the compliance processes, the performances of external and internal auditors and overseeing the
audit program of the Group.
		 The Group’s risk management framework was also approved for adoption on the same day. The TOR of the
ARMC had also been approved by the Board on 19 November 2019.
26
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (Continued)
Intended Outcome 10.0
Companies have an effective governance, risk management and internal control framework and
stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.
10.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield Corporate
Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable assurance of
adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.
		 The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of the Company’s
compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further improvement.
		 During the FYE 2020, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency
and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2019 and that they have the necessary authority
to carry out their work.
		 The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of the Company
and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is satisfactory and operating
effectively.
10.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the internal
audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair their
objectivity and independence.
		 The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a university
degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The Engagement Partner,
Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk management and corporate
governance advisory.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Intended Outcome 11.0
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.
Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its
policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
27
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(Continued)
I. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS (Continued)
11.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication to the investing
public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group are accurate, timely, factual,
informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary, information filed with regulators is in
accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
		 The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated spokespersons
will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow of information disclosure
to the stakeholders.
		 The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders through
a variety of communication channels as follows:-
		 (a) Announcements to Bursa Securities
			 Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis through
announcements to Bursa Securities.
			 Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly financial
results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via the Company’s
website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
		 (b) Annual reports
			 The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating to
the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for the past
financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
		 (c) AGM/general meetings
			 The AGM/general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise any issues
pertaining to the Company.
		 (d) Corporate website
			 The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company and is
accessible by the public.
		 (e) Investor relations
			 Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they have any
comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the Company’s general
email address.
11.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated reporting
based on a globally recognised framework.
28
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(Continued)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(Continued)
II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Intended Outcome 12.0
Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and make
informed voting decisions at general meetings.
12.1 The AGM provides an opportunity for the shareholders to seek and clarify any issues pertaining to the
Group and to have a better understanding of the Group’s activities and performance. Both individuals and
institutional shareholders are encouraged to meet and communicate with the Board at the AGM and to vote
on all resolutions.
		 The reason for issuing the Annual Report containing the Notice of 25th AGM of the Company less than twenty-
eight (28) days’ notice period as recommended by MCCG, to shareholders was mainly due to the Management
focusing more on back-end operation works and solving the significant issues faced by the Group with the aims
of improving the business and financial performance of the Company.
		 Nonetheless, the Notice of AGM, which set out the business to be transacted at the AGM, was published in a
major local newspaper with at least twenty-one (21) days’ notice as prescribed in the Company’s Constitution.
The notes to the Notice of AGM also provided detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable
shareholders to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.
		 The Management will continue to strive to ensure that the Notice of AGM is circulated to shareholders at least
twenty-eight (28) days before the date of the AGM.
12.2 All the Directors of the Company attended the 25th AGM of the Company held on 19 November 2019 to
engage with the shareholders personally and proactively.
		 The proceedings of the 25th AGM included a question and answer session in which the Chairman of the AGM
invited shareholders from the floor to raise questions on the Company’s financial statements and other agenda
items for adoption at the 25th AGM, before putting a resolution to vote.
		 The Chairmen of the Board Committees were also readily available to address the questions posted by the
shareholders to them at the 25th AGM.
12.3 The Company holds physical meetings annually at Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya, Penang, which is the same
venue for the past few AGMs. Shareholders who wish to attend AGM/general meetings are given sufficient
notice to ensure that they are able to make the necessary arrangements to attend AGM/general meetings,
review agenda items, and formulate questions, if any. Where the shareholders are not able to attend, they may
appoint proxies to attend on their behalf to vote and represent them.
		 Given the intense situation of the current Covid-19 pandemic and safe distancing requirements imposed by
the Government which discourages mass gatherings, the Board has taken precautionary steps to conduct the
Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 9 September 2020 on a fully virtual basis to enable
the shareholders of the Company to participate fully in the proceedings at more than one (1) venue using
any technology facilities and to exercise their right to speak and vote at the meeting without the need to be
physically present at the venue.
		 Despite the Board has decided the upcoming Twenty-Sixth AGM of the Company to be held physically due to
cost efficiency, the Board would consider to hold the general meetings virtually in future to encourage more
shareholder participation.
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly approved at the
Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 20 October 2020.
29
Sustainability Statement
INTRODUCTION
Acknowledging that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change, the Board of Directors (“Board”)
is pleased to present the Group’s Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 (“the Statement”),
which has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability
Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
This statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking to embrace
sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.
This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis and we are committed to further it, specifically on the material
sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are also laying out the
action plan to do so in this Statement.
SCOPE
This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-
• Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
• Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.
• Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd.
• Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd.
And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.
Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to:-
• Manufacturing of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Trading/sales of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Manufacturing, trade/sales of confectionaries.
• Trading of manufactured biscuit
Collectively, the above contributed to more than 40% of the Group’s total revenue. And our reporting period is from 1 July
2019 to 30 June 2020, unless otherwise stated.
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS
Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure in relation
to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is chaired by our Group
Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Departments i.e.:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of the
ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The Board is ultimately
accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also chairs the SWG, being
tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.
30
SUSTAINABIILTY STRATEGY
We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As part of our
sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that, while running the business effectively,
we are also committed to contribution to the larger community. The 4 Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-
GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (Continued)
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-
Board of Directors
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Sustainability Working Group
Head of Departments:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics
Sustainability Statement
(Continued)
31
Sustainability Statement
(Continued)
STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
We have identified and prioritized the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these stakeholders
over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters with the respective
stakeholders prioritized, as illustrated below:-
Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Engagement Matters
Shareholders • Annual General Meeting • Dividend
• Financial statements • Return on investment
• Press releases/announcements • Financial performance
• Share performance
Board of Directors • Board meetings • Corporate Governance
• Annual General Meeting • Company business strategy
• Company organised events
Employees • Orientation training • Occupational safety and health
• Learning and development programmes • Human resource management
• Employee performance appraisal • Fair employment practices
• Corporate organised events • Career development opportunities
• Occupational health and safety
Government/Regulators • Ongoing interactions • Manufacturing issues and policies
• Formal and informal meetings • Foods safety issues and policies
• Effluent and waste management
• Water and energy management
• Compliance to applicable laws
• Economic, Environmental and social
					impacts
Customers • Face-to-face interaction • Manufacturing quality
• Feedback survey • Manufacturing capacity
• Research and Development
Suppliers • Interviews • Agreeable contracts
• Evaluations/Re-evaluations • Terms of payments
• Face-to-face interaction • Maintaining partnerships
Local communities • Corporate volunteering programmes • Support towards community development
(e.g. community events, knowledge- • Job creation for local communities
sharing initiatives and partnerships with • Undertaking business in a responsible
			non-governmental organisations)		manner
32
MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material sustainability
matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a role.
A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not been finalised
for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.
The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the coming financial
years:-
a) To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.
b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from all relevant
departments/functions.
c) To prioritize the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
• Significance to the Group’s economic, environment and social impacts; and
• Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
e) With reference to data collected from (a) and (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
practices and policies.
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS
Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current sustainability efforts in relation
to the Material Sustainability Matters are set out below:-
Economic
A. Product Quality and Safety
We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our products that are
safe for consumption.
We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such as Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”) and Good
Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attained the Halal MS
1500:2009 certification.
We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which have
clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the Group’s product
quality and safety.
Sustainability Statement
(Continued)
33
Sustainability Statement
(Continued)
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (Continued)
Environment
A. Effluent and waste management
Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would potentially end
up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the waste water treatment plant
(WWT) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried out on the WWT to cater for the increase
in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater
discharged is within the Department of Environment’s wastewater effluent discharge standards.
B. Energy consumption
The retrofitting of the Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility to natural gas was completed in March 2019.
Positives from this initiative include; eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the life
spans of the boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in, gas is better
insulated against supply disruptions.
Social
A. Workplace Safety & Health
We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the foundation of
success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”)
1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FAM”) 1997 are adhered to.
Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all level of employees are well aware of their
significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated throughout the
Group.
B. Human resource management
Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high calibre
employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed in nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent
pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and performance
enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.
For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered to
as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as general public in the form of quality
products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.
C. Contribution to local community
Being a firm practitioner of corporate social responsibility, the Group has an ongoing “Love Rex” program which
contributes to the disabled, underprivileged, and homeless in our society. A part of the proceeds from every Rex
product which carries the “Love Rex” logo goes to the mentioned support.
Rex also has an ongoing feed the homeless program where wholesome meals are distributed to such persons every
fortnight in the very heart of Kuala Lumpur. This program was however temporarily halted and will be resumed as soon
as the Covid 19 Pandemic is effectively controlled.
Regardless of the Pandemic, we continue to support 7 homes for the under-privileged in the Klang Valley, ensuring their
residents continue to have healthy and balanced meals during this difficult period.
34
The Audit Committee (“AC”) is established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”) in discharging its statutory and
fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting practices as well as corporate governance and risk
management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”). On 30 September 2019, the AC has been renamed as
Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”).
1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 30 June 2020 (“FYE 2020”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as follows, all
of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors and none of them has appointed alternate directors, which is in
line with Paragraph 15.09 of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”):-
		 Name Designation Directorship
		 Tai Keat Chai Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
		 Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain Member Independent Non-Executive Director
		 Adnan bin Ahmad Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Furthermore, in adopting the Step Up Practice 8.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, the ARMC
comprised solely of Independent Directors.
The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the
requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the MainLR.
None of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens
Associates PLT in the previous two (2) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any financial interest in Messrs.
Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
2. MEETING ATTENDANCE
The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2020. The details of the attendance of the respective
ARMC members are as follows:-
			 Name No. of Meetings Attended*
		 Tai Keat Chai 5 of 5
		 Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 5 of 5
		 Adnan bin Ahmad 5 of 5
* The Meetings were held on 22 August 2019, 30 September 2019, 19 November 2019, 17 February 2020 and
		 19 May 2020.
The audit partners of the External Auditors responsible for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings
held in the FYE 2020.
The ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
personnel twice during the FYE 2020 to comply with the requirement of having at least two (2) private sessions with
the External Auditors per year as stipulated in the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC.
Audit Committee Report
35
Audit Committee Report
3. TOR
The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC
During the FYE 2020, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties, functions
and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-
Financial performance and reporting
a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial quarters
ended 30 June 2019, 30 September 2019, 31 December 2019 and 31 March 2020, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval.
b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of the Group on
quarterly basis.
c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 (“FYE 2019”)
to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, and recommended the same to the Board for
approval.
External audit
a) Met twice with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management personnel.
b) Received the AC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2019, covering matters to
highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.
c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2020 prepared by the External
Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit matters and areas of audit
emphasis and accounting standard updates.
d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2020, and recommended the same to the
Board for approval.
e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-
• Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
• Review of component auditors’ working papers.
f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2019 vide a
formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review and being satisfied
with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the Board to recommend to the
shareholders for approval.
g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
(Continued)
36
4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (Continued)
The following information has omitted entirety, please insert them before the Related Party Transaction:-
Internal audit
a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to those
recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were taken and
recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.
b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit functions vide a
formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its work.
c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2020 as prepared by the Internal Auditors.
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)
a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to ensure that
they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Fifth Annual General Meeting
of the Company held on 19 November 2019.
b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder
Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control
a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval.
b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement, and
recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the Annual Report 2019.
Other matters
a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s peer
performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of office and
performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they have carried out their
duties properly in accordance to the TOR.
b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the ARMC.
c) Reviewed the updated TOR of the ARMC, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
d) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
e) Discussed the proposed re-naming of the existing AC to ARMC, and recommended the same to the Board for
approval.
Audit Committee Report
(Continued)
37
5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service provider
to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective internal control and
governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is satisfactory and operating
effectively.
The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;
b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved audit plan:-
• Inventory management of Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.; and
• Purchasing, accounts payable and payments of P.T. Rex Canning Indonesia.
c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The reports
highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations for improvements;
and
d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported the same to
the ARMC.
The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2020 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any material
losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.
The total costs incurred for the internal audit function The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the
FYE 2020 was RM8,455.
Audit Committee Report
(Continued)
38
This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.
The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as to give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020:-
• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have ensured that the Group maintain accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out
in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited
financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the Group are released
to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public informed of the Group’s latest
performance and developments.
The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps that appropriate systems are reasonably available
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities and material
misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement, loss or fraud.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Preparing The Financial Statements
39
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of Rex
Industry Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2020 pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the
Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support
and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.
The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased to set out below its Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal control of
the Group during the year.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management and internal
control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and regular
review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated and the
system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and provide some reasonable but not absolute
assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are safeguarded against material losses and unauthorised use
and that the financial statements are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated in a systematic
manner.
The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and
appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Executive Directors is empowered by the Board and shall be
responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting the achievement of business
objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process. All
significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.
The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the Group include:
1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas of responsibility,
authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;
2. Involvement of the Executive Directors in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance at operational and
management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and procedures. The Executive Directors
have regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic issues and challenges affecting the respective business
units with the heads of business units. Significant matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the Board
on a timely basis; and
3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the Group by the
Executive Directors and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief Financial Officer on quarterly basis;
The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service provider
that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach in identifying
major operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking into consideration
corporate exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry out reviews on areas which
are identified by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the control
processes to address the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the control processes, where appropriate.
The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed appropriate
within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk Management
Committee with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action taken by Management
to ensure adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits
to assess implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal
control implemented. During the financial year, the Internal Auditors reviewed the control over credit notes in the
Malaysian subsidiaries. Their report has been presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
40
The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies of the Group.
Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees the risk management
process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at subsidiary level.
Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks
The report of RMWG will be presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee at quarterly meetings, highlighting
key risks and risk management activities carried out during that period.
The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has not resulted in
any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the Group during the financial
year under review or requires disclosure in the Annual Report 2020. Nevertheless, the Board recognises the review and
improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control is an on-going process to accommodate
evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal
control of the Group could be closely managed, monitored and improved over time.
Conclusion
The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks, procedures,
management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered appropriate. The Group
continues to take measures to enhance and strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the financial year
ended 30 June 2020. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3
(Revised February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). AAPPG 3 does not require the external auditors
to, and they did not consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control procedures. AAPPG 3 also does not require the external auditors to
consider whether the processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed
in the Annual Report will, in fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have reported to
the Board that nothing has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this Statement
is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the
risk management and internal control system.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 20 October 2020.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(Continued)
41
Additional Compliance Information
In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following information is
provided:-
1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals
No proceeds were raised by the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) from any corporate proposal during the
financial year ended 30 June 2020 (“FYE 2020”).
2. Audit and Non-Audit Services
During the FYE 2020, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has rendered certain audit and
non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as follows:-
Item		 Company Group
				 (RM) (RM)
Audit services rendered
Statutory Audit in respect of the FYE 2020 52,000 212,094
Non-audit services rendered
a) Review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control 5,000 5,000
b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers 10,000 10,000
Total		 67,000 227,094
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ interests or are
still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2019.
42
Our History and Business
Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by the name of
Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Rex Canning Co. Sdn
Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding company in conjunction with the
listing of Rex on Bursa Securities. The Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was
converted to a public limited company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second
Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.
Rex Group is involved in manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd
a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading manufacturer, distributor and
exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. PT Rex Canning Indonesia began commercial
operations in August 1992; with principal activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex
Canning operates under stringent standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. The majority
of PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the US and EU.
Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing population.
Our Policy
Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They are
implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance with local and
international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.
Financial Performance
For Financial Year 2020, the Group’s revenue grew 9.3% to RM149.25 million, representing an increase of 9.3% over
Financial Year 2019’s RM136.61 million. Cost rationalisation and streamlining of resources undertaken in that year have
contributed to alleviating the debilitating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The travel bans, quarantines, closures of non-
essential services, social distancing and home quarantine requirements have significantly impacted businesses, and our
customers directly or indirectly.
Pre-tax loss at RM9.5 million contracted by 33.9% compared to Financial Year 2019. This was brought about by improved
operational efficiency, optimisation of resources and rationalised route to market. Astute product portfolio positioning and
new products also contributed to the year’s improved performance.
However, the Soda Tax which was implemented on 1st July 2019 negatively impacted our financial performance as this
additional tax element could not be fully passed to the market due to price volatility arising from stiff competition.
Our financial performance was further impacted by further provisions for expected credit loss of RM1.33 million on trade
and other receivables,RM1.84 million for inventory obsolescence and write-offs and RM0.10 million for fair value loss of
other investments.
Management Discussion and Analysis
43
REX GROUP
FY 2019 FY 2020
(All in RM’000)
Revenue 136,608 149,245
Loss before tax (14,317) (8,396)
The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and deliver
satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.
Financial Highlights
30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Statement of Profit and Loss					
Turnover (Continuing operations) 196,182 130,175 130,323 136,608 149,245
Turnover (Discontinued operations) 46,526 9,470 - - -
Profit/(Loss) before Tax after Minority Interest (2,404) 2,493 (15,095) (14,317) (8,396)
Interest 1,231 1,070 1,539 1,905 2,050
					
Profit/(Loss) after Tax and Minority Interest (4,788) 3,254 (15,153) (13,297) (9,465)
Dividend - (1,233) - - -
Statement of Financial Position					
Paid-up Share Capital 61,657 73,743 73,743 73,743 73,743
Shareholders Funds 137,852 142,466 126,422 113,672 101,891
Borrowings 14,013 21,888 29,946 36,472 43,451
Net Tangible Assets 129,963 134,577 118,533 106,635 94,854
Management Discussion and Analysis
(Continued)
44
Financial Ratio
30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Investment Ratio					
NTA per share 2.21 2.11 2.18 0.43 0.38
					
Basic Earning/(Loss) Per Share (Sen) 1.38 (8.09) (8.05) (5.39) (3.84)
Gross Dividend rate (%) - - 2.00 - -
Dividend coverage ratio (times) - - 2.64 - -
Operating Ratio					
After tax return on shareholders’ fund (%) (3.47) 2.23 (11.93) (11.70) (8.5)
Pre-tax profit margin (%) (0.99) 1.74 (11.53) (10.48) (5.63)
					
Financial Ratio					
Gearing (times) 0.102 0.154 0.237 0.321 0.426
Interest Coverage ratio (0.95) 3.20 (8.76) (6.52) (3.10)
Liquidity ratio					
Current ratio 3.33 2.45 2.34 1.81 1.32
Quick ratio 1.91 1.31 1.26 0.99 0.61
Note:
1)		
The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 61,656,617 to 246,626,468 unit of ordinary shares by way of
issuance of 184,969,851 new ordinary shares arising from share split exercise. The share split has been completed following the
listing on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 24 October 2017.
2) Basic Earning/(Loss) per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit after tax attributable to owners
of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Outlook and Prospects
It is envisaged that Financial year July 2020 to June 2021 will be an extremely challenging one as the country and the world
grapple with the fallout from the Covid-19 Pandemic. Given the unpredictability of future development of this Pandemic, it
is challenging to determine the duration of the impact on the business and to gauge the potential impact on the financial
statements of the Group.
Management Discussion and Analysis
(Continued)
45
Outlook and Prospects (Continued)
Experts believe the situation is unlikely to rebound for the first half of 2021 which coincides with the second half of our
Financial Year 2021.
In the coming months we foresee higher unemployment rates, more frugal consumer spending, downtrading to lower cost
products and online selling gaining greater relevance as more consumers are initiated into that platform and adopt it.
We further foresee more aggressive competition for a share of a smaller pocket and on boarding of new competitors who
are forced to expand into the food business to survive.
The overarching result would be increased choices, lower priced products, and pressure on margins for incumbent players
to defend and to grow market share.
Taking cognizance of the foregoing we shall adopt a proactive approach to meet the forthcoming challenges with an
optimised portfolio that is appropriate to the market situation. Cost rationalisation, operational efficiencies, product
innovations, and improvement on routes to market will be vigorously pursued.
The Group is optimistic that our strategies and plans will enable us to strengthen and grow our market position in this
challenging period.
Significant Events
The World Health Organisation had on 11 March 2020 declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a global pandemic. As a measure
to contain the outbreak, the Government of Malaysia announced the MCO which is effective from 18 March 2020. Effective
4 May 2020, the MCO has been transitioned into a conditional MCO until 9 June 2020. As announced on 7 June 2020, the
conditional MCO has further been transitioned into a recovery MCO (“RMCO”) which had commenced with effect from 10
June 2020 until 31 August 2020. Subsequently vide an announcement on 28 August 2020, the RMCO was further extended
from 31 August 2020 until 31 December 2020. Under the RMCO, more economic sectors and businesses will be allowed to
be opened subject to adherence with the necessary strict standard operating procedures (“SOP”).
As for the Group’s Indonesian operating subsidiary, the Indonesian Government implemented Pembatasan Sosial Berskala
Besar (“PSBB) to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 which is equivalent to a partial lockdown from 28 April 2020 to 11 May
2020. PSBB was extended twice to 25 May 2020 and subsequently up to 8 June 2020 of which PSBB was uplifted and
business were able to operate with strict health protocols.
The outbreak of COVID-19 is an event of force majeure that is beyond the control of our Group. There is no assurance
that the COVID-19 outbreak and or the RMCO or PSBB will not have a material adverse impact on the market conditions
and or the industry in which our Group operates. Further, no assurance can be given that there the COVID-19 outbreak
and/ or the RMCO or PSBB will not have any material adverse impact to the supply chain of our Group’s raw materials
and the operations of our production facilities. Potential risks arising therefrom may include but not limited to slowdown
in customers’ demand, disruption in supply chain of our Group’s raw materials and products, increased operating costs to
comply with the SOP and disruptions to the output of our production facilities as a result of a re-enforcement of the MCO
or PSBB or a breakout of COVID-19 in proximity to our production facilities, any of which may result in an adverse effect on
our Group’s business and financial conditions.
Acknowledgements
I take this opportunity to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their
continued support, trust and unwavering confidence over the past years.
To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the company forward.
DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
Management Discussion and Analysis
(Continued)
46
Class of Securities : Ordinary Shares
Total Number of Holders : 850
Voting Rights : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
No. of 		 No. of
Size of Shareholdings Shareholders % Shares Held %
1 – 99 18 2.12 368 0.00
100 – 1,000 85 10.00 32,080 0.01
1,001 – 10,000 382 44.94 2,111,776 0.86
10,001 – 100,000 279 32.82 8,281,912 3.36
100,001 – 12,331,322 (*) 84 9.88 180,434,632 73.16
12,331,323 and above (**) 2 0.24 55,765,700 22.61
TOTAL 850 100.00 246,626,468 100.00
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
** 5% and above of Issued Shares
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on the Register
of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 2 October 2020 are as follows:
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Substantial Shareholders No. of 		 No. of
Shares Held % Shares Held %
Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 55,765,700 22.61 -		 -
Darmendran Kunaretnam 31,274,852 12.68 55,765,700(1) 22.61
Chee Cheng Chun - - 55,765,700(1) 22.61
Note:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company as
at 2 October 2020 are as follows:
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Directors No. of 		 No. of
Shares Held % Shares Held %
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 3,530,800 1.43 -		 -
Darmendran Kunaretnam 31,274,852 12.68 55,765,700(1) 22.61
Chee Cheng Chun - - 55,765,700(1) 22.61
Tai Keat Chai - - -		 -
Adnan bin Ahmad - - -		 -
Note:
(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 2 October 2020
47
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 37,306,100 15.13
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)		 18,459,600 7.48
3. Archer Horizons Sdn. Bhd.		 12,000,000 4.87
4. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam)		 11,404,000 4.62
5. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam)		 10,085,252 4.09
6. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd.		 9,786,800 3.97
7. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.		 8,294,300 3.36
8. Central Portfolio Sdn. Bhd.		 8,033,000 3.26
9. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.		 7,190,100 2.92
10. Tan Kee Shang		 5,795,656 2.35
11. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)		 5,553,600 2.25
12. Lee Sew Keng		 5,183,228 2.10
13. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam)		 5,060,000 2.05
14. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)		 4,602,000 1.87
15. Kamlesh Kumar		 4,248,600 1.72
16. Teo Kwee Hock		 4,209,400 1.71
17. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)		 4,206,400 1.71
18. Lee Chai Seng		 4,188,920 1.70
19. AMSEC Nominee (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Seamless Strength Sdn. Bhd.)		 4,088,400 1.66
20. Thevandran A/L K. Ragavan		 4,000,000 1.62
21. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
		 (Exempt an for Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad)		 3,830,800 1.55
22. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)		 3,530,800 1.43
23. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K. Ragavan)		 3,330,000 1.35
24. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)		 3,244,000 1.32
25. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
		 (Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Affin Hwang Flexi FundII)		 3,124,000 1.27
26. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam)		 3,025,600 1.23
27. Lim Ee Yong		 2,961,612 1.20
28. Cheong Boo Chin		 2,696,000 1.09
29. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.)		 2,650,000 1.07
30. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
		 (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)		 2,642,000 1.07
				 TOTAL 204,730,168 83.02
Thirty (30) Largest Securities Account Holders Para 29.25(2)
As at 2 October 2020
48
Corporate Structure
49
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 30 June 2020.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 11 to the
financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.
RESULTS
Group Company
RM RM
Loss for the year, net of tax attributable to Owners of the Company (9,465,290) (3,648,302)
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the
financial statements.
ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
The Company has not issued any shares or debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIVIDENDS
No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The Company is not in
a position to pay or declare dividends for the current financial year.
Directors’ Report
50
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors in office during the financial year and at the date of this report are:-
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
Chee Cheng Chun*
Tai Keat Chai*
Adnan bin Ahmad
* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries
DIRECTORS OF THE SUBSIDIARIES
The following is a list of Directors of the subsidiaries (excluding Directors who are also Directors of the Company) since the
beginning of the financial year to the date of this report:
Subsidiaries incorporated under the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia:
Vong Nee Toh
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings, the interest of Directors in office at the end of financial year in shares
or debentures of the Company and its related corporation during the financial year were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		 At 			 At
		 1.7.2019 Bought Sold 30.6.2020
		 Unit Unit Unit Unit
Name of Director
Ordinary shares in the Company
Direct interest:
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain 3,530,800 - - 3,530,800 		
Darmendran Kunaretnam 31,274,852 - - 31,274,852 		
		
Indirect interest:						
Darmendran Kunaretnam*				
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 55,765,700 - - 55,765,700 		
Chee Cheng Chun*				
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 55,765,700 - - 55,765,700
* deemed interest via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia.
None of the other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
or its related corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ Report
(Continued)
51
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS
The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company and the
estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash from the Company or
its subsidiaries for their services to the Company or its subsidiaries were as follows:
Company Subsidiaries
RM RM
Salaries and other emoluments - 749,700
Contributions to defined contribution plan - 119,952
Social security contribution - 924
Fees 226,600 -
226,600 870,576
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive any
benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the financial statements or the
fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation
with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest, other than as disclosed in Note 27 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling Directors of the
Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body
corporate.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to an
amount which they might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading;
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group
and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
financial statements misleading.
Directors’ Report
(Continued)
52
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (Continued)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or likely to be become enforceable, within the period
of twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been substantially
affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the
financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
(e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors for the financial
year from the Company and its subsidiaries is RM227,094.
(f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the Company or any
of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.
(g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
Details of significant events are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 20 October 2020.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN TAI KEAT CHAI
Directors’ Report
(Continued)
53
We, the undersigned being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the
accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 129 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, so as to give
a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2020 and of their financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 20 October 2020.
TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN TAI KEAT CHAI
Statement by Directors
Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
54
I, LIM GEIK FONG being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 129 are to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory
on 20 October 2020
				 LIM GEIK FONG
Before me,
Statutory Declaration
Pursuant to Section 251(1) of the Companies Act, 2016
55
Independent Auditors’ Report to The Members of Rex Industry Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
30 June 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes in
equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 60 to 129.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 30 June 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significant in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context
of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
56
Key audit matters
Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 30 June 2020, as shown in Note 15 to the financial
statements, the Group’s trade receivables amounted to
RM28.6 million which represented 16% of the Group’s
total assets.
We focused on this area due to the substantial sum
outstanding and the significant judgements made by
the Directors over assumptions about the risk of default,
expected loss rate and timing of collection. In making
these assumptions, the Directors selected inputs to the
impairment calculation, based on historical trend of
collection and forward-looking estimation.
Valuation of goodwill
As at 30 June 2020, as shown in Note 13 to the financial
statements, the Group’s goodwill amounted to RM7.0
million.
The Group is required to perform an annual impairment
test or more frequently when indication of impairment
exists on goodwill which arose from the Group’s
acquisition of subsidiaries in prior years. The Group
applies the value-in-use (“VIU”) method to estimate the
recoverable amounts of the goodwill.
We have identified the valuation of goodwill as a key
audit matter as the impairment test involves significant
management judgement in determining the allocation
of goodwill to the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) and
in estimating the underlying assumptions to be applied
in the discounted cash flow projections of the VIU
calculation. The recoverable amount of the goodwill is
highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect
of future revenue growth rate, gross margin, the
long-term growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate
used in the cash flow projections. A small change in
the assumption can have a significant impact on the
estimation of the recoverable amount.
Our audit performed and responses thereon
We have performed the following procedures:
• Verified the balances of trade receivables by
circularisation of confirmations on sampling basis;
• Reviewed the reliability of ageing of trade receivables
at year end on a sampling basis;
• Obtained a list of long outstanding trade receivables
and identified any debtors with financial difficulty
through discussion with management; and
• Reviewed management’s assessment on the
recoverability of past due debts to assess the
sufficiency of allowance for trade receivables
through specific and collective provisions with
reference to subsequent settlement for specifically
assessed debtors and to historical payment pattern
of the customers, historical trend of bad debts
or impairment provided for and correlation with
macroeconomic factors for collectively assessed
debtors.
We have performed the following procedures:
• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts were
prepared by management based on the approved
budgets by the Directors;
• Compared the key assumptions including projected
revenue, growth rates, gross margin and discount
rates against our knowledge of the Group’s historical
performance, business and cost management
strategies based on facts and circumstances
currently available;
• Performed a sensitivity analysis by changing certain
key assumptions used in the VIU calculations and
assessed the impact of the recoverable amounts of
the goodwill; and
• Assessed the appropriateness of the financial
statements disclosures concerning those key
assumptions to which the outcome of the
impairment test is most sensitive.
Key Audit Matters (Continued)
(Continued)
Independent Auditors’ Report to The Members of Rex Industry Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
57
Key Audit Matters (Continued)
(Continued)
Independent Auditors’ Report to The Members of Rex Industry Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Key audit matters
Impairment review of investments in subsidiaries
As at 30 June 2020, as shown in Note 11 to the financial
statements, the Company’s investments in subsidiaries
amounted to RM66 million which represented 95% of
the Company’s total assets.
The Company determined whether there is any
indication of impairment for investments in subsidiaries.
There was indication of impairment in two of the
operating subsidiaries and the recoverable amounts
were determined based on value-in-use (“VIU”)
which involves significant judgement on the discount
rates applied and the assumptions which support
the underlying cash flows projections that include
estimation of the future cash inflows and outflows that
were derived from the operating subsidiaries.
Our audit performed and responses thereon
We have performed the following procedures:
• Reviewed actual results with budgeted results
to assess the performance of the business and
reliability of the projection process;
• Reviewed the cash flows projections by comparing
the assumptions to historical data as well as our
assessment in relation to key assumptions such as
discount rate, operating expenses, revenue and
gross profit margins; and
• Performed sensitivity analysis for a range of
reasonably possible scenarios.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal
control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are also responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
58
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the
Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
(Continued)
Independent Auditors’ Report to The Members of Rex Industry Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
59
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued)
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the contents of
this report.
MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT STEPHEN WAN YENG LEONG
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA) 02963/07/2021J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096) Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 20 October 2020
(Continued)
Independent Auditors’ Report to The Members of Rex Industry Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
60
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue 4 149,245,245 136.608,859 - -
Changes in manufactured inventories		 (5,465,037) (4,146,440) - -
Raw materials and consumables used		 (97,575,192) (88,446,454) - -
Staff costs		 (21,944,015) (22,755,433) - -
Depreciation		 (3,576,446) (3,632,809) - -
Other expenses		 (28,381,726) (31,233,308) (3,648,404) (1,461,584)
Other income		 1,351,526 1,193,844 102 138
Loss from operations		 (6,345,645) (12,411,741) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
Finance costs 5 (2,050,478) (1,905,387) - -
Loss before tax 6 (8,396,123) (14,317,128) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
Income tax expense 7 (1,069,167) 1,019,876 - -
Loss for the year, representing
total comprehensive income
for the year		 (9,465,290) (13,297,252) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
							
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax							
Items that may be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss							
Foreign currency translation		 (2,652,338) 943,238 - -
							
Items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss							
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		 336,324 161,292 - -
Total other comprehensive
income for the year		 (2,316,014) 1,104,530 - -
Total comprehensive
income for the year		 (11,781,304) (12,192,722) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
							
Loss for the year attributable to:					
Owners of the Company		 (9,465,290) (13,297,252) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
							
Total comprehensive income
attributable to:						
Owners of the Company		 (11,781,304) (12,192,722) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
Loss per ordinary share
attributable to Owners
of the Company:
Basic (sen): 8 (3.84) (5.39)
Statements of Comprehensive Income
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
61
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS						
Non-current assets							
Property, plant and equipment 9 80,107,876 62,151,890 - -
Right-of-use assets 10 6,381,625 - - -
Investments in subsidiaries 11 - - 65,977,960 41,088,617
Other investment 12 754,000 1,386,000 754,000 1,386,000
Goodwill on consolidation 13 7,037,480 7,037,480 - -
		 94,280,981 70,575,370 66,731,960 42,474,617
							
Current assets						
Inventories 14 47,949,242 48,412,666 - -
Trade receivables 15 28,603,055 31,741,941 - -
Other receivables 16 4,833,658 16,223,495 2,355,660 30,288,675
Tax recoverable		 181,526 667,193 31,320 31,320
Cash and bank balances 17 6,854,390 10,203,759 8,811 19,628
			 88,421,871 107,249,054 2,395,791 30,339,623
Total assets		 182,702,852 177,824,424 69,127,751 72,814,240
Statements of Financial Position
As At 30 June 2020
62
(Continued)
Statements of Financial Position
As At 30 June 2020
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						
Equity						
Share capital 19 73,742,421 73,742,421 73,742,421 73,742,421
Translation reserve 20 (3,379,879) (727,541) - -
Retained earnings/
(accumulated losses)		 31,528,609 40,657,575 (7,124,298) (3,475,996)
Total equity attributable to
Owners of the Company 101,891,151 113,672,455 66,618,123 70,266,425
							
Non-current liabilities						
Borrowings 21 11,587,849 3,382,288 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 22 1,525,409 1,544,777 - -
Lease liabilities 23 935,167 - - -
			 14,048,425 4,927,065 - -
							
Current liabilities						
Borrowings 21 30,621,238 33,090,051 - -
Trade payables 24 19,590,710 9,012,728 - -
Other payables 25 15,847,397 16,542,055 2,509,628 2,547,815
Contract liability 26 265,009 580,070 - -
Lease liabilities 23 307,052 - - -
Tax payable		 131,870 - - -
			 66,763,276 59,224,904 2,509,628 2,547,815
Total liabilities		 80,811,701 64,151,969 2,509,628 2,547,815
Total equity and liabilities		 182,702,852 177,824,424 69,127,751 72,814,240
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
63
Statements of Changes in Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
Attributable to Owners of the Company
		 Non-distributable Distributable
		 Share Translation Retained Total
		 Capital Reserve Earnings Equity
Note RM RM RM RM
Group							
At 1 July 2018		 73,742,421 (1,670,779) 53,793,535 125,865,177
Foreign currency translation
difference for foreign operations		 - 943,238 - 943,238
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain 25(a) - - 161,292 161,292
Total other comprehensive income
for the year		 - 943,238 161,292 1,104,530
Loss for the financial year		 - - (13,297,252) (13,297,252)
Total comprehensive income for the year		 - 943,238 (13,135,960) (12,192,722)
At 30 June 2019		 73,742,421 (727,541) 40,657,575 113,672,455
							
At 1 July 2019		 73,742,421 (727,541) 40,657,575 113,672,455
Foreign currency translation
difference for foreign operations		 - (2,652,338) - (2,652,338)
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain 25(a) - - 336,324 336,324
Total other comprehensive income
for the year		 - (2,652,338) 336,324 (2,316,014)
Loss for the financial year		 - - (9,465,290) (9,465,290)
Total comprehensive income for the year		 - (2,652,338) (9,128,966) (11,781,304)
At 30 June 2020		 73,742,421 (3,379,879) 31,528,609 101,891,151
64
(Continued)
Statements of Changes in Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
			 Share Accumulated Total
		 Capital Losses Equity
		 RM RM RM
Company					
At 1 July 2018		 73,742,421 (2,014,550) 71,727,871
Loss for the financial year, representing
total comprehensive income for the financial year - (1,461,446) (1,461,446)
At 30 June 2019		 73,742,421 (3,475,996) 70,266,425
						
At 1 July 2019		 73,742,421 (3,475,996) 70,266,425
Loss for the financial year, representing
total comprehensive income for the financial year - (3,648,302) (3,648,302)
At 30 June 2020		 73,742,421 (7,124,298) 66,618,123
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
65
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Cash Flows from Operating
Activities							
Loss before tax		 (8,396,123) (14,317,128) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
Adjustments for:							
Allowance for expected
		
credit loss on:						
		 - Trade receivables		 1,357,624 902,449 - -
		 - Other receivables		 170,000 9,051 - -
Allowance for inventories
		 obsolescences		 2,257,154 254,644 - -
Depreciation of property, plant
		 and equipment		 3,304,198 3,632,809 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 272,248 - - -
Fair value loss on other investment		 104,000 168,000 104,000 168,000
Loss on disposal of other investment		 39,000 - 39,000 -
Gain on disposal of property,
		 plant and equipment		 (125,014) (7,094) - -
Gain on disposal of non-current
		 assets classified as held for sale		 - (533,445) - -
Impairment loss on goodwill		 - 851,647 - -
Impairment loss on investment in
		 subsidiary		 - - 3,055,000 800,000
Interest expense		 2,050,478 1,905,387 - -
Interest income		 (150,753) (408,215) (102) (138)
Inventories written off		 432,403 752,189 - -
Property, plant and equipment
		 written off		 1 - - -
Reversal of impairment loss on							
		 trade receivables		 (198,386) (88,718) - -
Reversal of allowance for
		 inventories obsolescences		 (845,708) - - -
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange		 389,114 477,349 - 5,225
Operating profit/(loss) before
		 changes in working capital,
		 balance carried down		 660,236 (6,401,075) (450,404) (488,359)
66
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Operating profit/(loss) before
changes in working capital,
balance brought down		 660,236 (6,401,075) (450,404) (488,359)
Changes in working capital:							
Inventories		 (619,332) 890,095 - -
Receivables		 13,495,298 (12,536,316) (21,762) (1,591)
Payables		 5,578,340 4,942,342 (38,187) 45,434
Cash from/(used in) operations		 19,114,542 (13,104,954) (510,353) (444,516)
Interest received		 150,753 408,215 102 138
Interest paid		 (2,050,478) (1,905,387) - -
Tax refund		 712,578 357,799 - -
Tax paid		 (1,024,671) (881,554) - -
Net cash from/(used in)
operating activities		 16,902,724 (15,125,881) (510,251) (444,378)
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 						
Acquisition of property, plant
and equipment 9(ii) (17,547,521) (2,397,072) - -
Proceeds from disposal of
property, plant and equipment		 432,991 35,500 - -
Proceeds from disposal of
other investments 489,000 - 489,000 -
Proceeds from disposal of
non-current assets
classified as held for sale - 1,000,000 - -
Net cash (used in)/from
investing activities		 (16,625,530) (1,361,572) 489,000 -
								
Cash Flows from Financing Activities							
Net repayment from subsidiaries		 - - 10,434 428,408
Net drawdown of borrowings (ii) (5,891,739) 5,727,518 - -
Repayment of finance lease
payables (ii) - (378,773) - -
Payment for the principal portion
of lease liabilities (ii),(iii) (228,682) - - -
Net cash (used in)/from
financing activities		 (6,120,421) 5,348,745 10,434 428,408
(Continued)
67
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
Net decrease in cash and cash
equivalents		 (5,843,227) (11,138,708) (10,817) (15,970)
Cash and cash equivalents at
beginning of the financial year		 9,161,765 20,242,120 19,628 35,598
Effect of exchange rate changes
on cash and bank balances		 54,892 58,353 - -
Cash and cash equivalents at
the end of the financial year (i) 3,373,430 9,161,765 8,811 19,628
(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following:-
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
Note RM RM RM RM
		 Cash and cash equivalents 17 3,677,031 5,613,507 8,811 19,628
		Short-term repurchase
			 agreement (“REPO”) 17 3,177,359 4,590,252 - -
					 6,854,390 10,203,759 8,811 19,628
		 Less: Bank overdrafts 21 (3,480,960) (1,041,994) - -
		 			 3,373,430 9,161,765 8,811 19,628
(Continued)
68
(ii) Reconciliation of movement of borrowings to cash flows arising from financing activities:
			 Borrowings Finance		
			
(excluding bank lease Lease
			 overdrafts) payables liabilities
			RM RM RM
		
Group						
		2020						
		 At 1 July 2019, as previously stated			 35,321,388 108,957 -
		 Effect on adoption of MFRS 16			 - (108,957) 653,939
		
		 At 1 July 2019, as restated			 35,321,388 - 653,939
		 Additions			 9,100,000 - 815,011
		 Interest expense			 1,939,385 - 30,294
		 Drawdown of facilities		 9,146,296 - -
		 Repayment			 (16,977,420) - (258,976)
		Net changes in cash flow from/(used)
			 in financing activities			 (5,891,739) - (228,682)
		 Translation reserve			 198,478 - 1,951
		 At 30 June 2020			 38,728,127 - 1,242,219
				 Borrowings Finance
				
(excluding bank lease
				 overdrafts) payables
				RM RM
		Group
		2019						
		 At 1 July 2018				 29,308,845 398,740
		 Addition				 - 87,041
		 Interest expense				 1,796,863 33,808
		 Drawdown of facilities				 13,713,644 -
		 Repayment				 (9,782,989) (412,581)
		 Net changes in cash flow from/(used)
			 in financing activities				 5,727,518 (378,773)
		 Translation reserve				 285,025 1,949
		 At 30 June 2019				 35,321,388 108,957
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
(Continued)
69
(iii) Reconciliation of cash flows for lease as lessee:		
					
Group
					
2020
					
RM
		 Included in net cash from operating activities:					
		 Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities					 30,294
		 Payment relating to short term lease rental and low value assets			 885,148
						
		 Included in net cash used in financing activities:						
		 Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities				 228,682
		 Total cash outflow for lease liabilities					 1,144,124
Statements of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 30 June 2020
(Continued)
The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
70
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main Market
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 125, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah.
The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 11.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution dated 20
October 2020.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
		 The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and
the requirements of Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
		 The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the preparation of
the financial statements.
		
		 (i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year
			 The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that are
mandatory as follows:-
			
MFRS 16 Leases
			 Amendments to MFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation
			 Amendments to MFRS 119 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement
			 Amendments to MFRS 128 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures
			 IC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty Over Income Tax Treatment
			 Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle
			 The adoption of the above pronouncements did not have any significant effect on the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company, except for:
			
MFRS 16 Leases
			 MFRS 16 replaces the guidance in MFRS 117 Leases, IC Interpretation 4 Determining whether an
Arrangement contains a Lease, IC Interpretation 115 Operating Leases – Incentives and IC Interpretation
127 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
71
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued)
(a) Statement of compliance (Continued)
		 (i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year (Continued)
			
MFRS 16 Leases (Continued)
			 MFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognises a
right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing
its obligations to make lease payments. The ROU asset is depreciated throughout the lease period in
accordance with the depreciation requirements of MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment whereas
lease liability is accreted to reflect interest and is reduced to reflect lease payments made. For leases
that were classified as finance leases under MFRS 117, the carrying amount of the ROU asset and lease
liability at the date of initial application shall be the carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability
immediately before the date of initial application.
			 For lessors, MFRS 16 retains most of the requirements in MFRS 117. Lessors continue to classify all leases
as either operating leases or finance leases and account for them differently.
			 As permitted by the transitional provision of MFRS 16, the Group and the Company have elected to adopt
a modified transition approach where the lease liability is measured at the present value of the remaining
lease payments and discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application
(i.e 1 July 2019) and the ROU asset measured at an amount equals to the lease liability, adjusted by
prepayments or accrued lease payments relating to that lease at the date of application. The Group and
the Company have also applied the following practical expedients under MFRS 16:
			 - No adjustments are made on transition for leases for which the underlying assets are of low value.
			 - A single discount rate is applied to portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics.
			 - The Group and the Company do not apply the standard to leases which lease terms end within 12
months from 1 July 2019.
			 - The Group and the Company use hindsight in determining lease terms for contracts that contain
options for extension or termination.
			 The financial impacts to the statements of financial position (“SOFP”) of the Group arising from adoption
of MFRS 16 Leases are as follows:
							 As Effects on 		
							 previously adoption of As
							 reported MFRS 16 restated
							 RM RM RM
				Group					
				 1 July 2019					
				SOFP					
				Non-current assets 				
				 Property, plant and equipment,
					 at carrying value		 62,151,890 (5,290,299) 56,861,591
				 Right-of-use assets		 - 5,835,281 5,835,281
72
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued)
(a) Statement of compliance (Continued)
		 (i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year (Continued)
			
MFRS 16 Leases (Continued)
							 As Effects on 		
							 previously adoption of As
							 reported MFRS 16 restated
							 RM RM RM
				Group (Continued)					
				 1 July 2019					
				SOFP					
				Non-current liability					
				Lease liabilities - 466,078 466,078
					
		 		 Current liabilities
				 Borrowings		 33,090,051 (108,957) 32,981,094
				 Lease liabilities - 187,861 187,861
			 Upon adoption of MFRS 16, the Group recognised lease liabilities in relation to leases which has been
previously recognised as “operating leases” under the principles of MFRS 117.
			 Reconciliation for the differences between operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019 as lease
liabilities recognised at the date of initial application of 1 July 2019 are as follows:-
									 Group
									 RM
				 Operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019			 135,000
				 Effects from discounting at the incremental borrowing rate of 2.18%		 (40,018)
				 Lease liabilities additionally recognised based on the initial application of MFRS 16		 450,000
				 Transfer from finance lease liabilities upon initial application of MFRS 16		 108,957
			 Lease liabilities recognised as at 1 July 2019			653,939
			 (ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early
adopted
				 The Group and the Company have not adopted the following accounting pronouncements that have been
issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not yet effective for the Group
and the Company:
				 Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020
				 Amendments to MFRS 3		 Definition of Business
				 Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
				 Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS 108 Definition of Material
				 Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
73
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued)
(a) Statement of compliance (Continued)
		 (ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early
adopted (Continued)
		 Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 June 2020
		
				 Amendments to MFRS 16		
Covid-19 – Related Rent Concessions
				 Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021
				 Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2
					 MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16
				 Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
				 Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework
				 Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before Intended Use
				 Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
				 Annual Improvements to MFRSs 2018 to 2020
				 Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
				 MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
				 Amendments to MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Extension of the Temporary Exemption 			
							 from Applying MFRS 9)
				 Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
				 Amendments to MFRS 101		 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current
		 		 Effective date to be announced
				 Amendments to MFRS 10 and Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
					 MFRS 128		 its Associate or Joint Venture
			 The Group and the Company will adopt the above pronouncements when they become effective in the
respective financial periods. These pronouncements are not expected to have any effect to the financial
statements of the Group and the Company upon their initial applications.
		 (b) Basis of measurement
			 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention except for those as disclosed in
the accounting policy notes.
		 (c) Functional and presentation currency
			 These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional
currency.
			 All financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest RM, unless otherwise stated.
74
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements
		 The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s and
the Company’s result of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures. Certain of these
accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and subjective judgements and
the use of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible
to change. Directors exercise their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s
accounting policies.
		 Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and underlying
assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results
may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.
		 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at the end of
the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.
		 (i) Impairment of non-financial assets
			 When the recoverable amount of an asset is determined based on the estimate of the value-in-use of the
cash-generating unit to which the asset is allocated, the management is required to make an estimate of
the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to apply a suitable discount rate in
order to determine the present value of those cash flows.
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
			 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This requires
management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill is
allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.
The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates estimated and discount
rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying value
of goodwill.
		 (iii) Impairment of financial assets
			 The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with its debt instruments
carried at amortised cost. The impairment method applied as disclosed in Note 3(o)(i) depends on whether
there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
			 For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires
expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
		 (iv) Write-off of inventories
			 Reviews are made periodically by management on damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories. These
reviews required judgements and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates could result in revisions
to the valuation of inventories.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
75
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued)
(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)
		 (v) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries
			 Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment annually in accordance with its accounting policy
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
			 Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions and
judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in assumptions
could significantly affect the carrying value of investment in subsidiaries.
		 (vi) Defined benefit plan
			 The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the present
value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making
assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability rate and resignation
rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rate,
management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market yield on government bond which
sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.
			 The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 25(a).
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
statements, except as stated in Note 3(g).
(a) Basis of consolidation
		Consolidation
		 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies
are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and
only if the Company has all the following:
		(i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant power
activities of the investee);
		 (ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
		 (iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
76
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(a) Basis of consolidation (Continued)
		Consolidation (Continued)
		 When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company considers the
following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power
over the investee:
		 (i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the
other vote holders;
		 (ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
		 (iii) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
		 (iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current
ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns
at previous shareholders’ meetings.
		 Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the
Company loses control of the subsidiary.
		 Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
		 Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over
the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interest and the
non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. The
resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
		 When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are compared to
the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying amount of allocated
goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised as gain or loss on disposal.
		Business combination
		 Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the
amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis
whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share
of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction cost incurred are expensed and included in administrative
expenses.
		 Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition
date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or
liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in profit or loss or a change to other comprehensive
income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement
is accounted for within equity.
		 When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate
classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent
conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the
acquiree.
		 If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
77
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(a) Basis of consolidation (Continued)
		Business combination (Continued)
		 Business combinations under common control are accounted using the predecessor method of merger
accounting where the profit or loss and other comprehensive income include the results of each of the
combining entities from the earliest date presented or from the date when these entities came under the
control of the common controlling party (if later).
		 The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the
perspective of the common controlling party, or the combining entities if the common controlling party does
not prepare consolidated financial statements.
		 The difference in cost of acquisition over the aggregate carrying value of the assets and liabilities of the
combining entities as of the date of the combination is taken to equity. Transaction cost for the combination
is recognised in the profit or loss.
		 Similar treatment applies in the Company’s separate financial statements when assets and liabilities representing
the underlying businesses under common control are directly acquired by the Company. In accounting for
business combinations in the Company’s separate financial statements, the excess of the cost of acquisition
over the aggregate carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the combinations is taken to
equity.
		 Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and
the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
is recognised in profit or loss.
		 After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose
of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to
each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
		 Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit
is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of
the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is
measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit
retained.
		 In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less
impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal proceeds and their
carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.
		Transactions eliminated on consolidation
		 Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
statements.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
78
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(b) Foreign currency
		 (i) Foreign currency transactions
			 In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the
entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using the exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies at the
reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the exchange rates on the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the reporting date except
for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate
at the date that the fair value was determined.
			 Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of monetary
items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences arising on monetary
items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.
		(ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia
			 The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different from the
presentation currency (RM) of the consolidated financial statements are translated into RM as follows:-
• Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate prevailing at
the reporting date;
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the year, which approximates the
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and
• All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.
			 Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to profit or loss when control, joint
control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.
			 On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of the subsidiary
is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the cumulative translation
differences is reclassified to profit or loss in respect of all other partial disposals.
(c) Revenue and other income recognition
		 Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e. when
the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the
customer.
		 A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct goods or
services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is
explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business practices.
		 Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange
for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf
of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due
to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar items, the Group estimates the
amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the expected value or the most likely outcome.
If the contract with customer contains more than one performance obligation, the amount of consideration
is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or
services promised in the contract.
79
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(c) Revenue and other income recognition (Continued)
		 The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration
is subsequently resolved.
		 The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control
over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
		 - The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance as
the Group performs;
		 - The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
or enhanced; or
		 - The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
		 Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which
the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.
		 Other revenue earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:
		Interest income
		 Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
		Rental income
		 Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
(d) Employee benefits
		 (i) Short term employee benefits
			 Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the financial
year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term accumulating
compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are rendered by employees
that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short term non-accumulating
compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when absences occur.
			 The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount expected to
be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.
		 (ii) Defined contribution plans
			 As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the state pension scheme, the Employees
Provident Fund (“EPF”). Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once the contributions
have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
80
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(d) Employee benefits (Continued)
		 (iii) Defined benefit plans
			 The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for each
plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in
the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised
past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the
end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from IBPA) that are denominated in the same
currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
			 When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to calculate the
present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that
apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the
life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
			 When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by
employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately
in profit or loss.
			 The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans in other comprehensive
income and all expenses related to defined benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.
			 The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when
the curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in
the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation and any related
actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been recognised.
		 (iv) Voluntary separation scheme
			 Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal
retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those
benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are
measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer.
(e) Borrowing costs
		 Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
		 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which
are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are
capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
		 The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases
when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are
interrupted or completed.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
81
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(e) Borrowing costs (Continued)
		 Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
(f) Income taxes
		Current tax
		 Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected amount
payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by
the reporting date, and any adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside
profit or loss, the related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
		Deferred tax
		 Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the tax base of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not recognised if
the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, which is not
a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or
loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are
realised or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the reporting date.
		 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary differences
relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
		 Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be
available for the assets to be utilised.
		 Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is adjusted against goodwill
on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the acquisition cost.
(g) Leases
		 Current financial year
		 The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or site on
which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
82
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(g) Leases (Continued)
		 The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:
		 Short term leasehold lands 41 remaining years
		 Long term leasehold lands 53 remaining years
		 Hostel rental 3 years
		 Office rental 5 years
		 Factory rental 6.5 years
		 Motor vehicle 5 years
		 The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the commencement
date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Lease payments included in the measurement
of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease payments, amount expected to be payable
under a residual value guarantee, and exercise price under an extension option that the Group is reasonably
certain to exercise.
		 The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group change its assessment
of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.
		 Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight-
line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
Previous financial year
		 The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the
arrangement at the inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a
specific asset (or assets) or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly
specific in an arrangement.
		Finance lease
		 Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified
as finance lease. Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at an amount equal to the lower of its
fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is
accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset.
		 Minimum lease payments made under finance leases are apportioned between finance charges and reduction
of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in profit or loss. Contingent lease payments are accounted for
by revising the minimum lease payments over the remaining term of the lease when the lease adjustment is
confirmed.
		Operating lease
		 Leases, where the Group does not assume substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified
as operating leases and the leased assets are not recognised on the statement of financial position, except for
property interests held under an operating lease. Property interest held under an operating lease, which is held
to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, is classified as investment property.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
83
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(g) Leases (Continued)
		Previous financial year (Continued)
		Operating lease (Continued)
		 Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term
of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in profit or loss as an integral part of the total lease
expense, over the term of the lease. Contingent rentals are charged to profit or loss in the reporting period in
which they are incurred.
		 Leasehold land which is in substance in an operating lease is classified as prepaid lease payments and amortised
on a straight-line basis over the lease period as disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
(h) Earnings per share
		 Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for
own shares held.
(i) Property, plant and equipment
		 Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses.
		 (i) Recognition and measurement
			 Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and any other
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of replacing
component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of
the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and direct
labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on
borrowing costs. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
			 When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
			 Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment
are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets
and are recognised in profit or loss.
		(ii) Subsequent costs
			 The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow
to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant
and equipment are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
84
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(i) Property, plant and equipment (Continued)
		(iii) Depreciation
			 Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset,
then that component is depreciated separately.
			 Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated useful lives
of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following annual rates:-
			 Short term leasehold lands* 41 remaining years
			 Long term leasehold lands* 53 remaining years
			
Buildings 2%
			 Plant, machinery and factory equipment 5% - 20%
			 Furniture, fittings and office equipment 5% - 20%
			
Motor vehicles 20%
		 * In the previous financial year, these short-term leasehold lands and long-term leasehold lands were
depreciated over their estimated useful life ranging from 41 remaining years and 53 remaining years.
Upon adoption of MFRS 16 Leases, these leasehold lands have been reclassified as Right-of-Use Assets
as at the date of initial application, i.e. 1 July 2019.
			 Freehold land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.
			 Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.
			 Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until they are
no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these property, plant and
equipment.
(j) Capital work-in-progress
		 Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes borrowing cost
incurred during the period of construction.
		 No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the cost will be
transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(k) Intangible assets
		Goodwill
		 Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase consideration
and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the
subsidiary companies at the date of acquisition.
		 Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when indication of impairment
exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
85
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(k) Intangible assets (Continued)
		Goodwill (Continued)
		 Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the computation
of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income.
(l) Inventories
		 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
		 The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred
in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
		 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
		 Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
		 - cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a weighted
average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).
		 - cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of production
overheads.
(m) Cash and cash equivalents
		 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposits with licensed banks and short-
term REPO that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk
of changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented
net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
(n) Financial instruments
		(i) Initial recognition and measurement
			 A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statement of financial position when, and only
when, the Group or the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
			 A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or a financial
liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss,
transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance. A trade receivable without a
significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
			 An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract is not
a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to the
economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is not measured at fair value
through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is
accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
86
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(n) Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
			 The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:
		 Financial assets
			 Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified subsequent to
their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company change its business model for managing financial
assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period
following the change of the business model.
		 Amortised cost
			 Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model whose objective
is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The
financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition,
these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The amortised
cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment
are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit or loss. Interest
income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount except for credit
impaired financial assets [see note 3(o)(i)] where the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised
cost.
			
Fair value through profit or loss
			 All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income
are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a
derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group or
the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be
measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income as at fair value through
profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise
arise. Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at their
fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in the profit or
loss.
			 All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are subject to impairment
assessment [see note 3(o)(i)].
		 Financial liabilities
		 Amortised cost
			 Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
			 Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gains or
losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
87
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(n) Financial instruments (Continued)
		(iii) Offsetting
		
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of
financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently have a legally enforceable
right to set off the amounts and they intend either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and
liability simultaneously.
		(iv) Financial guarantee contracts
		
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
			 Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at higher
of:
• the amount of the loss allowance; and
• the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
			 Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.
		(v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
		
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the
marketplace concerned.
			 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using
trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:
			 (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and
			 (b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition
of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
		(vi) Derecognition
		
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the cash
flows from the financial asset expire or the financial asset is transferred to another party without retaining
control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. On derecognition of a financial asset, the
difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received (including any new
asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised
in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
			 A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified in the
contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference
between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit
or loss.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
88
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(o) Impairment
		(i) Financial assets
			 The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on financial
assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit losses are a
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
			 Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following bases:-
			 (i) 12-month ECL – represents the ECL that result from default events that are possible within the 12
months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less
than 12 months); or
			 (ii) Lifetime ECL- represents the ECL that will result from all possible default events over the expected life
of a financial instrument or contract asset.
			 The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk.
			
Simplified approach - trade receivables
			 The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables as
permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from
initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated
using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted
for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the
current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money
where applicable.
			
General approach - other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts
			 The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at an
amount equal to 12-months ECLs at initial recognition.
			 At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial instrument
has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased significantly since initial
recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether the
credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating
ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and
available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and
analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
and including forward looking information, where available.
			 If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the financial
instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant credit risk since initial recognition, loss
allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECL.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
89
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(o) Impairment (Continued)
		(i) Financial assets (Continued)
			
General approach - other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts (Continued)
			 The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes
when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full, without
recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).
			 The Group and the Company consider a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of
the loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors and the Group and the Company in full,
without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The
Group and the Company only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into
account by adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.
			 The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which the
Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
			
Credit impaired financial assets
			 At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised
cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental
impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
			 Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following events:
			 - Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
			 - A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event;
			 - The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial
difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider
(e.g the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company on terms that the Group
and the Company would not consider otherwise);
			 - It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
			 - The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.
			
Write-off policy
			 The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there
is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company determine
that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be
subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for
recovery of amounts due. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
		(ii) Non-financial assets
			 The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists
then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
90
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(o) Impairment (Continued)
		(ii) Non-financial assets (Continued)
			 An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds
its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the asset is
carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly against any revaluation
surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the revaluation
surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates
cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups.
			 The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value in use and its fair
value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.
			 Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case it is
taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that would
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
			 An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
			 An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary exceeds
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the investment including the
proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is recognised in profit or loss.
(p) Equity instruments
		 An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and of the
Company after deducting all of their liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.
		 Ordinary shares
		 Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction
costs. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the
period in which they are declared.
(q) Provisions
		 A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation
that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The
unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2019
(Continued)
91
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(r) Operating segments
		 An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief
operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make decisions
about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
information is available.
(s) Contract liabilities
		 A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods and services to a customer for which the Group has
received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities are
recognised as revenue when the Group performs its obligation under the contracts.
		 The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and discounts
are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration for the expected
future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method. The Group then applies
the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and recognises a refund liability for the
expected future rebates.
(t) Contingencies
		(i) Contingent liabilities
			 Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be
estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is disclosed as
a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations,
whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events,
are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
 
		(ii) Contingent assets
			 Where is not probable that there is an inflow of economic benefits, or the amount cannot be estimated
reliably, the asset is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is disclosed as a contingent
asset, unless the probability of inflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations, whose
existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events, are
also disclosed as contingent assets unless the probability of inflow of economic benefits is remote.
(u) Non-current asset held for sale or distribution to owners
		 The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale or for distribution to equity holders
of the parent (herein referred to as “distribution”) if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally
through a sale or distribution rather than through continuing use. Such non-current assets and disposal groups
classified as held for sale or as held for distribution are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell or to distribute. Distribution-related costs to distribute are the incremental costs directly
attributable to the distribution, excluding the finance costs and income tax expense.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2019
(Continued)
92
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
(u) Non-current asset held for sale or distribution to owners (Continued)
		 The criteria for held for distribution classification is regarded as met only when the distribution is highly probable
and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate distribution in its present condition. Actions required
to complete the distribution should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the distribution will be
made or that the distribution will be withdrawn. Management must be committed to the distribution expected
within one year from the date of the classification. Similar considerations apply to assets or a disposal group
held for sale.
		 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as
held for sale or as held for distribution. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale or for distribution are
presented separately as current items in the statement of financial position. A disposal group qualifies as
discontinued operation if it is:
		 (i) A component of the Group that is a Cash-Generating Unit (“CGU”) or a group of CGUs;
		 (ii) Classified as held for sale or distribution or already disposed in such a way; or
		 (iii) A major line of business or major geographical area.
(v) Fair value measurements
		 Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the
most advantageous market.
		 For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
		 When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as
possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
valuation technique as follows:
		 Level 1 : Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can
access at the measurement date.
		 Level 2 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly.
		 Level 3 : Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
		 The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change
in circumstances that caused the transfers.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
93
4. REVENUE
The Group sells a range of manufactured canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of manufactured
products are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being when the
customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.
Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 29.
5. FINANCE COSTS
		Group
				2020 2019
				RM RM
Interest expense:-			
- Term loans 423,374 229,314
- Bank overdrafts 80,799 74,716
- Finance lease payables - 33,808
- Bankers’ acceptances 1,310,696 1,388,992
		 Revolving credit 205,315 178,557
- Lease liabilities 30,294 -
				 2,050,478 1,905,387
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
94
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
6. LOSS BEFORE TAX
Loss before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration:						
- Current year 212,094 209,369 52,000 52,000
Non-audit fees:						
- Current year 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Allowance for expected credit loss on:						
- Trade receivables 1,357,624 902,449 - -
- Other receivables 170,000 9,051 - -
Allowance for inventories obsolescences 2,257,154 254,644 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and
		 equipment 3,304,198 3,632,809 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 272,248 - - -
Fair value loss on other investment 104,000 168,000 104,000 168,000
Loss on disposal of other investment 39,000 - 39,000 -
Impairment loss on goodwill - 851,647 - -
Impairment loss on investment in
		 subsidiary - - 3,055,000 800,000
Inventories written off 432,403 752,189 - -
Property, plant and equipment
		 written off 1 - - -
Rental of premises 568,579 1,074,403 - -
Rental of equipment 316,569 30,281 - -
Realised loss on foreign exchange 460,928 453,051 - -
Reversal of allowance for
		 inventories obsolescence (845,708) - - -
Employees benefit expenses (Note a) 21,944,015 22,755,433 - -
Non-executive Directors’ fees 226,600 237,100 226,600 237,100
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange 389,114 477,349 - 5,225
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
		 equipment (125,014) (7,094) - -
Gain on disposal of non-current assets
		 classified as held for sale - (533,445) - -
Interest income (150,753) (408,215) (102) (138)
Rental income (12,500) - - -
Reversal of impairment loss on						
		 trade receivables (198,386) (88,718) - -
Wages subsidy (91,200) - - -
95
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
6. LOSS BEFORE TAX (Continued)
(a) Employees benefit expenses comprise:-
		
Group
				2020 2019
				RM RM
Staff costs						
Salaries, wages, bonus, allowances and overtime			 19,376,794 20,226,316
Voluntary separation scheme 		 397,399 254,387
Defined benefit plan			 372,354 314,958
Contributions to defined contribution plan			 791,011 844,145
Social security contributions 		 135,881 120,815
				 		 21,073,439 21,760,621
							
Directors of the Company						
Executive Directors						
Salaries and other emoluments			 749,700 856,800
Contributions to defined contribution plan			 119,952 137,088
Social security contributions			 924 924
						 870,576 994,812
								
Total staff costs			 21,944,015 22,755,433
96
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
Current income tax:			
- Malaysian tax - 2,300
- Foreign tax 1,088,365 556,995
			
Underprovision in prior year:			
- Malaysian tax 170 338
						 1,088,535 559,633
			
Deferred tax (Note 22):			
Reversal of temporary differences (19,368) (1,838,209)
Underprovision in prior year - 258,700
						 (19,368) (1,579,509)
Income tax expense/(credit) for the financial year 1,069,167 (1,019,876)
Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% of the estimated assessable profit for
the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The reconciliations from the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and the Company’s tax expense
are as follows:
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
Loss before tax (8,396,123) (14,317,128) (3,648,302) (1,461,446)
							
Tax at the Malaysian statutory
		 income tax rate of 24% (2,015,100) (3,436,100) (875,600) (350,700)
Effect of different tax rates in
		 other countries 57,400 16,680 - -
Non-deductible expenses 681,505 1,024,518 875,620 350,730
Deferred tax assets not recognised 2,607,700 1,340,976 - -
Income not subject to tax (262,508) (224,988) (20) (30)
Underprovision in prior year:-						
- income tax 170 338 - -
- deferred tax - 258,700 - -
Income tax expense/(credit)
		 for the financial year 1,069,167 (1,019,876) - -
							
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
97
7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (Continued)
The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available for set-off
against future taxable profits as follows:-
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
Unutilised tax losses 26,385,000 18,851,800
Unabsorbed capital allowances 17,228,900 8,783,000
					 43,613,900 27,634,800
The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital
allowances carried forward.
The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval to offset
against future taxable profit.
Any unutilised tax losses in a year of assessment (“YA”) can only be allowed to carry forward up to a maximum of 7
consecutive years of assessment effective from YA 2019.
8. LOSS PER SHARE
Basic loss per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the loss after tax attributable to owners of
the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Group
					 2020 2019
Loss after tax attributable to the Owners of the Company (RM) (9,465,290) (13,297,252)
			 		
Number of ordinary shares at the end of the year (unit) 246,626,468 246,626,468
Loss per ordinary share				
Basic (sen): (3.84) (5.39)
					
There are no dilutive potential ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
98
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
							 Plant, Furniture, 			
				 Long term Short term		 machinery fittings 		 Capital
			 Freehold leasehold leasehold		 and factory and office Motor expenditure-
			 land land* land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles in-progress Total
2020		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group 									
Cost												
At 1 July 2019, as previously stated 9,685,719 1,471,964 5,576,382 32,573,500 43,440,503 5,652,117 3,912,396 32,415 102,344,996
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16		 - (1,471,964) (5,576,382) - - - (95,928) - (7,144,274)
At 1 July 2019, restated		 9,685,719 - - 32,573,500 43,440,503 5,652,117 3,816,468 32,415 95,200,722
Additions		 5,950,000 - - 7,794,009 11,652,801 313,819 62,976 873,916 26,647,521
Disposals		 - - - - - - (1,026,528) - (1,026,528)
Written off		 - - - - - (778,133) (142,799) - (920,932)
Reclassification		 - - - 32,415 - - - (32,415) -
Exchange differences		 153,708 - - 24,934 115,583 12,550 21,188 21,239 349,202
At 30 June 2020		 15,789,427 - - 40,424,858 55,208,887 5,200,353 2,731,305 895,155 120,249,985
										
										
Accumulated depreciation 									
At 1 July 2019		 - 225,084 1,624,894 7,937,705 25,264,821 3,125,632 2,014,970 - 40,193,106
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16		 - (225,084) (1,624,894) - - - (3,997) - (1,853,975)
At 1 July 2019, restated		 - - - 7,937,705 25,264,821 3,125,632 2,010,973 - 38,339,131
Charge for the financial year		 - - - 617,493 1,821,393 547,320 317,992 - 3,304,198
Disposals		 - - - - - - (718,551) - (718,551)
Written off		 - - - - - (778,133) (142,798) - (920,931)
Exchange differences		 - - - 21,217 88,612 11,831 16,602 - 138,262
At 30 June 2020		 - - - 8,576,415 27,174,826 2,906,650 1,484,218 - 40,142,109
										
Net carrying amount										
At 30 June 2020		 15,789,427 - - 31,848,443 28,034,061 2,293,703 1,247,087 895,155 80,107,876
99
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued)
							 Plant, Furniture, 			
				 Long term Short term		 machinery fittings 		 Capital
			 Freehold leasehold leasehold		 and factory and office Motor expenditure-
			 land land* land Buildings equipment equipment vehicles in-progress Total
2019		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (Continued)									
Cost												
At 1 July 2018		 9,445,529 1,471,964 5,576,382 32,125,641 40,048,490 5,189,398 4,013,875 1,720,654 99,591,933
Additions		 - - - - 1,682,439 444,114 93,865 263,695 2,484,113
Disposals		 - - - - - - (230,146) - (230,146)
Reclassification		 - - - 408,897 1,543,037 - - (1,951,934) -
Exchange differences		 240,190 - - 38,962 166,537 18,605 34,802 - 499,096
At 30 June 2019		 9,685,719 1,471,964 5,576,382 32,573,500 43,440,503 5,652,117 3,912,396 32,415 102,344,996
										
										
Accumulated depreciation										
At 1 July 2018		 - 200,870 1,524,628 7,361,409 23,094,914 2,631,710 1,754,599 - 36,568,130
Charge for the financial year		 - 24,214 100,266 544,674 2,049,448 476,756 437,451 - 3,632,809
Disposals		 - - - - - - (201,740) - (201,740)
Exchange differences		 - - - 31,622 120,459 17,166 24,660 - 193,907
At 30 June 2019		 - 225,084 1,624,894 7,937,705 25,264,821 3,125,632 2,014,970 - 40,193,106
										
Net carrying amount										
At 30 June 2019		 9,685,719 1,246,880 3,951,488 24,635,795 18,175,682 2,526,485 1,897,426 32,415 62,151,890
* Long-term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
100
9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued)
(i) The net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment of the Group held under finance leases arrangements
were Nil (2019: RM333,466).
(ii) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment are satisfied by the following:-
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
				 Cash 17,547,521 2,397,072
				 Finance lease arrangement - 87,041
				 Term loan 9,100,000 -
					 26,647,521 2,484,113
(iii) Certain freehold land and building with net carrying amount of RM19,248,628 (2019: RM5,711,088) are held
as security for term loan facilities as disclosed in Note 21.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
101
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
							 			
				 Long term Short term 		
			 leasehold leasehold Hostel Office Factory Motor
					 land* land rental rental rental vehicle Total
2020		 		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group 									
Cost												
At 1 July 2019				 - - - - - - -
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16 			 1,471,964 5,576,382 - - 544,982 95,928 7,689,256
At 1 July 2019, as restated 			 1,471,964 5,576,382 - - 544,982 95,928 7,689,256
Additions				 - - 313,119 403,995 - 97,897 815,011
Exchange differences				 - - - - - 4,681 4,681
At 30 June 2020		 		 1,471,964 5,576,382 313,119 403,995 544,982 198,506 8,508,948
Accumulated Depreciation											
At 1 July 2019, as previously stated			 - - - - - - -
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16		 		 225,084 1,624,894 - - - 3,997 1,853,975
At 1 July 2019, as restated 			 225,084 1,624,894 - - - 3,997 1,853,975
Charge for the financial year 			 23,752 97,790 8,698 16,833 83,843 41,332 272,248
Exchange differences				 - - - - - 1,100 1,100
At 30 June 2020				 248,836 1,722,684 8,698 16,833 83,843 46,429 2,127,323
													
Net Carrying Amount 										
At 30 June 2020 			 1,223,128 3,853,698 304,421 387,162 461,139 152,077 6,381,625
													
At 1 July 2019, as restated 			 1,246,880 3,951,488 - - 544,982 91,931 5,835,281
* Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.
102
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (Continued)
The expenses charged to profit and loss during the financial year are as follows:-
		Group
						 2020
						 RM
Depreciation of right-of-use assets during the year		 272,248
Interest expense on lease liabilities		 30,294
Expenses relating to short-term leases		 505,308
Expenses relating to leases of low value assets		 379,840
(i) The net carrying amount of right-of-use assets of the Group held under finance leases arrangements were
RM152,077 (2019: Nil).
(ii) Acquisition of right-of-use assets of motor vehicle amounting to RM97,897 (2019: Nil) were satisfied by finance
lease arrangement.
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost			
At beginning/end of the year 42,501,620 42,501,620
			
Less: Allowance for impairment loss			
At beginning of the year (1,413,003) (613,003)
Addition (3,055,000) (800,000)
At end of the year (4,468,003) (1,413,003)
				 38,033,617 41,088,617 		
Capital contribution to subsidiary			
At beginning of the year - -
Addition 27,944,343 -
At end of the year 27,944,343 -
Carrying amount at end of the year 65,977,960 41,088,617
Capital contribution to subsidiary represents amounts due from a subsidiary which are non-trade in nature, unsecured
and interest free and the settlement of the amount is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future. As
this amount is in substance, represents additional investment in the subsidiary, it is stated at cost less accumulated
impairment losses.
103
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (Continued)
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
		 Effective			
		 equity interest			
			 Country of 2020 2019 		
Name of company incorporation % % Principal activities
								
Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and export of
							 canned food and drinks and
							 investment holding
Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of canned food, drinks and
							 shelf stable convenience food
				
Fika Foods Corporation Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and distribution 		
Sdn. Bhd.					 of frozen meat, ceased operation
							 in June 2014
Summit Teamtrade (2011) Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture of biscuit
		 Sdn. Bhd.				
				
P.T. Rex Canning * # Indonesia 100 100 Manufacture and export
							 of canned food
				
Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of
							 manufactured biscuit
				
Cinta Edar (Selatan)
Sdn. Bhd. @ Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
				
Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
				
Best Aqua Food Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
				
Fika Foods Marketing Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
		 Sdn. Bhd. @				
				
Gainasia International British Virgin 100 100 Dormant		
		 Limited * ^ Islands
* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning.
^ The financial statements is audited for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ the Directors of the respective subsidiaries have approved to strike off these subsidiaries and is pending for
submission to the Companies Commission of Malaysia pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016.
104
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
12. OTHER INVESTMENT
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
At fair value through profit or loss 					
							
Quoted shares						
At beginning of the year 1,386,000 1,554,000 1,386,000 1,554,000
Disposal (528,000) - (528,000) -
Fair value loss (104,000) (168,000) (104,000) (168,000)
At end of the year 754,000 1,386,000 754,000 1,386,000
The investments have quoted market price in an active market and hence, the fair value was derived based on the
market price of the quoted shares. The fair value of the investment is categorised at Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Cost			
		 At beginning/end of the year 11,378,743 11,378,743
			
Less: Accumulated impairment loss			
		 At beginning of the year (4,341,263) (3,489,616)
		 Addition - (851,647)
		 At end of the year (4,341,263) (4,341,263)
Carrying amount at end of the year 7,037,480 7,037,480
			
Impairment testing for cash-generating unit (“CGU”) containing goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Manufacturing of canned food 7,037,480 7,037,480
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents the lowest level
within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
105
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (Continued)
Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on value-in-use calculations determined by
discounting future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget
for 2021 and projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.
The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
(i) Budgeted gross margin
		 The budgeted gross margin ranges from 14% to 15% (2019: 4% to 20%). Gross margins are based on
values achieved previously preceding the start of the budget period. These are increased over the budget for
anticipated efficiency improvements.
(ii) Weighted average growth rate
		 The weighted average growth rate for business operation ranges from 1% to 7% (2019: 4% to 19%). Pre-tax
cash flows projections based on the most recent financial budgets approved by the management covering 5
years period based on the growth rate.
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate
		 A pre-tax discount rate of 10% (2019: 10%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGUs. This is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to
evaluate future investment proposals.
Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably possible
changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in determining
the recoverable amounts of the cash-generating unit. Based on the sensitivity analysis performed, management
concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable
amounts of the units to be materially below their carrying amounts.
14. INVENTORIES
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
At cost:			
Raw materials 21,137,187 21,525,295
Manufactured inventories 20,320,756 18,376,861
Packing materials 7,531,818 8,122,650
Consumables 1,303,765 1,421,923
Stocks in transit 101,225 -
				 50,394,751 49,446,729
106
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
14. INVENTORIES (Continued)
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Less: Allowance for obsolescences			
At beginning of the year (1,034,063) (779,419)
Addition (2,257,154) (254,644)
Reversal 845,708 -
At end of the year (2,445,509) (1,034,063)
				 47,949,242 48,412,666
			
Inventories recognised in cost of sales 103,040,229 92,592,894
Inventories written off 432,403 752,189
15. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
External parties 32,130,693 34,110,385
Less: Allowance for impairment loss			
				 At beginning of the year (2,368,444) (1,812,585)
				 Effect of adoption of MFRS 9 - (556,776)
				 Additions (1,357,624) (902,449)
				 Written off - 821,478
				 Reversal 198,386 88,718
				 Foreign exchange adjustments 44 (6,830)
				 At end of the year (3,527,638) (2,368,444)
					 28,603,055 31,741,941
The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2019: 30 to 90 days). Other
credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.
Trade receivables amounted to RM8,467,774 (2019: RM8,287,534) are held as security for bankers’ acceptances
facilities as disclosed in Note 21.
107
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
16. OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
Sundry receivables 6,168,135 6,243,892 - -
		 Less: Allowance for impairment loss						
At beginning of the year (2,424,699) (2,415,648) - -
		 Written off 58,932 - - -
		 Additions (170,000) (9,051) - -
		 At end of the year (2,535,767) (2,424,699) - -
					 3,632,368 3,819,193 - -
							
Deposits 521,552 12,024,334 - -
Prepayments 679,738 379,968 50,724 28,962
					 4,833,658 16,223,495 50,724 28,962
Amounts due from subsidiaries - - 2,304,936 30,259,713
					 4,833,658 16,223,495 2,355,660 30,288,675
The amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, non-trade in nature, interest free and are receivable on demand.
Included in deposits of the Group in previous financial year were as follows:-
(i) RM3,900,000 paid for the purchase of Batu Pahat factory which was completed during the financial year upon
satisfaction of conditions precedent of Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 6 March 2019.
(ii) RM6,634,000 paid for the purchase of factory equipment.
17. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
Group Company
		 2019 2018 2019 2018
		 RM RM RM RM
Short-term REPO 3,177,359 4,590,252 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 3,677,031 5,613,507 8,811 19,628
					 6,854,390 10,203,759 8,811 19,628
The effective interest rate of the short-term REPO is at 3.45% (2019: 3.58%) per annum with maturity between 1
month to 4 months.
108
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
18. NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
At beginning of the year - 466,555
Disposal - (466,555)
At end of the year - -
The Company entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) on 17 May 2018 for the disposal of two units
shoplot building for total sales considerations of RM1 million. The disposal of the said property was completed in prior
financial year upon fulfillment of the SPA’s conditions precedent.
19. SHARE CAPITAL
				 Group and Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 Unit Unit RM RM
Ordinary shares						
Issued and fully paid						
At beginning of the year/
		 at end of the year 246,626,468 246,626,468 73,742,421 73,742,421
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual interests.
20. TRANSLATION RESERVE
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of foreign subsidiaries.
109
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
21. BORROWINGS
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Non-current			
		 Term loans (secured) 11,587,849 3,382,288
		
Current			
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) 3,480,960 1,041,994
Bankers’ acceptances - unsecured 13,586,000 19,029,761
Bankers’ acceptances - secured 8,467,774 8,287,534
Revolving credit (unsecured) 4,000,000 4,000,000
Term loans (secured) 1,086,504 621,805
Finance lease payables (secured) - 108,957
					 30,621,238 33,090,051
					 42,209,087 36,472,339
			
Maturity profile of borrowings:			
On demand or within 1 year 30,621,238 33,090,051
More than 1 year and less than 5 years 4,920,999 2,832,869
More than 5 years 6,666,850 549,419
					 42,209,087 36,472,339
Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:
Group
					 2020 2019
					 % %
Bank overdrafts BLR* + 1.5 BLR* + 1.5
Bankers’ acceptances 1.75 - 5.70 4.81 - 6.23
Revolving credit 4.82 - 5.78 4.82 - 5.78
Term loans BLR* - 1.5 BLR* - 1.5
Islamic term loan BFR# - 1.25% -
Finance lease payables 4.32 - 4.58 2.23 - 4.03
* BLR - Base Lending Rate
# BFR - Base Financing Rate
Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-
(i)		 charge over certain property, plant and equipment of the Group as disclosed in Note 9;
(ii) a corporate guarantee of the Company; and
(iii) certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.			
110
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
21. BORROWINGS (Continued)
Finance lease payables
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Minimum finance lease payments:			
Within 1 year - 109,495
More than 1 year and less than 2 years - -
More than 2 years and less than 5 years - -
				 - 109,495
Less: Future finance charges - (538)
Present value of finance lease payables - 108,957
			
The aggregate commitment for future finance lease payments are as follows:
			
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Present value of finance lease payables			
Within 1 year - 108,957
More than 1 year and less than 2 years - -
More than 2 years and less than 5 years - -
					 - 108,957
			
Representing:-			
Current - 108,957
Non-current - -
				 - 108,957
The effective interest rates per annum on the finance lease payables of the Group is Nil (2019: 2.31% to 4.41%).
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
At beginning of the year 1,544,777 3,124,286
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7) (19,368) (1,579,509)
At end of the year 1,525,409 1,544,777
111
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (Continued)
This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:-
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Difference between net carrying amount of property,
plant and equipment and its tax base 4,195,350 3,332,500
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 2,464,009 2,508,877
Unutilised tax losses (2,035,700) (1,410,400)
Unabsorbed capital allowances (2,272,150) (2,234,000)
Other deductible temporary differences (826,100) (652,200)
					 1,525,409 1,544,777
The estimated amount of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets are recognised in the financial
statements are as follows:
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
		
Unutilised tax losses 17,902,900 13,922,500
Unabsorbed capital allowances 7,761,600 1,154,700
Other deductible temporary differences 2,957,900 2,679,800
				 28,622,400 17,757,000
23. LEASE LIABILITIES
					 Lease of
					 Motor Hostel Office Factory
					 Vehicles Rental Rental Rental Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM
2020							
Group 					
Minimum lease rental payables						
Within 1 year 65,348 108,000 72,000 90,000 335,348
More than 1 year but less than 2 years 22,473 108,000 72,000 90,000 292,473
More than 2 years but less than 5 years 3,746 99,000 216,000 270,000 588,746
More than 5 years - - 54,000 45,000 99,000
					 91,567 315,000 414,000 495,000 1,315,567
Less: Future finance charges (8,345) (10,299) (25,782) (28,922) (73,348)
Present value of lease rental payables 83,222 304,701 388,218 466,078 1,242,219
									
112
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
23. LEASE LIABILITIES (Continued)
					 Lease of
					 Motor Hostel Office Factory
					 Vehicles Rental Rental Rental Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM
						
2020 (Continued)						
Group 					
Present value of lease rental payables						
Within 1 year 60,170 102,246 63,994 80,642 307,052
More than 1 year but less than 2 years 19,759 104,550 65,436 82,418 272,163
More than 2 years but less than 5 years 3,293 97,905 205,287 258,303 564,788
More than 5 years - - 53,501 44,715 98,216
Present value of lease rental payables 83,222 304,701 388,218 466,078 1,242,219
									
Analysed as:							
Current portion 60,170 102,246 63,994 80,642 307,052
		 Non-current portion 23,052 202,455 324,224 385,436 935,167
					 83,222 304,701 388,218 466,078 1,242,219
The effective interest rates per annum on the lease liabilities of the Group are as follows:
					 Lease of
		 			 Motor Hostel Office Factory
					 Vehicles Rental Rental Rental
					 % % % %
2020						
Group					
Effective interest rate 4.68 2.25 2.25 2.20
24. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2019: 30 to 90
days).
113
25. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
		 2020 2019 2020 2019
		 RM RM RM RM
Sundry payables 5,918,452 6,564,408 - 52,487
Accruals 1,332,752 4,902,371 67,000 207,300
Retirement benefits [Note (a)] 2,698,376 2,599,086 - -
Amounts due to Directors 3,278,714 1,040,618 154,600 -
Amounts due to subsidiaries - - 2,288,028 2,288,028
Amounts due to related parties 2,619,103 1,435,572 - -
					 15,847,397 16,542,055 2,509,628 2,547,815
The amounts due to a Directors, subsidiaries, and related parties are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on
demand.
Related parties refer to certain companies in which certain Directors of the Company have substantial financial
interests as disclosed in Note 27.
(a) Retirement benefits
		 A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit plans that
provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for employees.
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
		Movement in the present value of defined
benefit obligations			
			
		 At beginning of the year 2,599,086 2,387,679
		 Current service cost and interest 372,354 314,958
		 Benefit payment - (37,848)
		 Actuarial gain in other comprehensive income (336,324) (161,292)
		 Foreign exchange adjustments 63,260 95,589
		 At end of the year 2,698,376 2,599,086
Expense recognised in profit or loss
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
		 Current service cost and interest 372,354 314,958
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
114
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
25. OTHER PAYABLES (Continued)
(a) Retirement benefits (Continued)
		 The expense is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive income:-
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
		 Staff costs 372,354 314,958
		Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Group
					 2020 2019
					 RM RM
		 At beginning of the year 64,188 (97,104)
		 Recognised during the year 336,324 161,292
		 At end of the year 400,512 64,188
Actuarial assumptions
Group
					 2020 2019
			 % %
		 Discount rate 7.73 8.11
		 Salary increment rate 7.0 6.0
		 Disability rate 5.0 5.0
		Resignation rate		
		 20 - 30 10.0 10.0
		 31 - 40 5.0 5.0
		 41 - 45 3.0 3.0
		 46 - 50 2.0 2.0
		 51 - 54 1.0 1.0
		 > 55 - -
26. CONTRACT LIABILITY
Contract liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against
amounts payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.
115
27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
Identity of related parties
For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and the Company
if the Group and the Company have the ability to directly control the party or exercise significant influence over the
party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the party
are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
The Group and the Company have related party relationships with its subsidiaries, related companies, key management
personnel and related parties. Related parties refer to companies in which certain Directors of the Company have
substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the related party transactions between the Group and its
related parties during the financial year are as follows:
Company
						 2020 2019
						 RM RM
Subsidiaries:				
Repayment from 10,434 428,408
Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Related parties:				
Transportation charges 2,345,768 1,732,723
Upkeep of motor vehicles 130,127 115,093
Information technology services 33,211 -
Travelling expenses 1,548 80,752
Lease of motor vehicle 36,000 18,000
Warehouse management 381,331 216,000
Warehouse rental 60,000 60,000
Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel
include all the Directors of the Group and of the Company and certain senior management personnel of the Group.
Group Company
				 2020 2019 2020 2019
			 RM RM RM RM
Directors of the Company						
Directors’ fee 226,600 237,100 226,600 237,100
Salaries and other emoluments 749,700 856,800 - -
Contributions to defined contribution plan 119,952 137,088 - -
Social security contributions 924 924 - -
				 1,097,176 1,231,912 226,600 237,100
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
116
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Continued)
Compensation of key management personnel (Continued)
Group Company
				 2020 2019 2020 2019
			 RM RM RM RM
Key management personnel						
Salaries and other emoluments 833,585 737,743 - -
Contributions to defined contribution plan 67,225 97,992 - -
				 900,810 835,735 - -
				 1,997,986 2,067,647 226,600 237,100
28. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
				 Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
Approved and contracted for:				
Purchase of factory - 9,100,000
Construction of warehouse 41,782 -
				
Approved but not contracted for:			
Purchase of equipment - 3,366,000
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
canned food, frozen food, drinks and biscuits. The Group’s Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision
Maker) reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis. Accordingly, information
by operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not presented.
Geographical area
The Group operates in four principal geographical areas – Malaysia (country of domicile), United States of America
(“USA”), Europe and Asia.
117
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued)
Geographical area (Continued)
Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets respectively
are as follows:
Group Company
External revenue Non-current assets*
				 2020 2019 2020 2019
				 RM RM RM RM
Malaysia 53,372,088 58,931,330 79,581,971 49,220,463
USA 68,166,490 56,304,701 - -
Europe 16,865,952 13,837,993 - -
Asia (excludes Malaysia) 10,840,715 7,534,835 13,945,010 19,968,907
			 149,245,245 136,608,859 93,526,981 69,189,370
* Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
Group Company
				 2020 2019 2020 2019
				 RM RM RM RM
Financial assets						
Fair value through profit or loss						
Other investment 754,000 1,386,000 754,000 1,386,000
					
Amortised cost						
Trade receivables 28,603,055 31,741,941 - -
		 Other receivables * 4,153,920 15,843,527 2,304,936 30,259,713
		 Cash and bank balances 6,854,390 10,203,759 8,811 19,628
				 39,611,365 57,789,227 2,313,747 30,279,341
							
Financial liabilities						
Amortised cost						
Borrowings 42,209,087 36,472,339 - -
		 Trade payables 19,590,710 9,012,728 - -
		 Other payables 15,847,397 16,542,055 2,509,628 2,547,815
		 Lease liabilities 1,242,219 - - -
				 78,889,413 62,027,122 2,509,628 2,547,815
* Excluding prepayments
118
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
risk, foreign currency risk and equity price risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses on
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s and the
Company’s financial performance.
Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group and of the Company. Management continually
monitors the Group’s and the Company’s risk management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between
risk and control is achieved. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the
market conditions and the Group’s and the Company’s activities.
There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it manages and
measures the risk.
(a) Credit risk
		 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its
contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the individual characteristics
of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to
subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior periods.
		Trade receivables
		Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
		 Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business partners with
good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
		 At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables and contract assets are credit
impaired.
		 The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full) when there
is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does
not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject
to write-off.
		 Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
		 There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.
		Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
		 As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying
amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.
119
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(a) Credit risk (Continued)
Trade receivables (Continued)
		Credit risk concentration profile
		 The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on an ongoing
basis.
		 The credit risk concentration profile of the Group’s net trade receivables by countries are as follows:
				 Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
				 Malaysia 15,164,424 19,432,131
				 USA 10,621,554 11,545,620
				 Asia (excludes Malaysia) 2,817,077 764,190
					 28,603,055 31,741,941
		 The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to an amount owing from 1 customer (2019: 1 customer)
which constituted to approximately 12% (2019: 5%) of the Group’s net trade receivables as at the end of the
reporting period.
		Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
		 As disclosed in Note 3(o)(i), the Group uses a provision matrix to measure the lifetime expected credit loss
allowance for trade receivables. In measuring the expected credit losses, trade receivables are grouped based
on their shared credit risk characteristics and numbers of days past due. The expected credit losses on these
financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience,
adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both
the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money
where appropriate.
		 Loss allowance for trade receivables has always been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses (ECL) as disclosed in the accounting policy Note 3(o)(i). The group has recognised a loss allowance of
100% (2019: 50%) against all receivables over 270 days (2019: 330 days) past due (credit-impaired) because
historical experience has indicated that these receivables are generally not recoverable. There has been no
change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting period.
None of the trade receivables that have been written off is subject to enforcement activities.
		 Trade receivables that are individually determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to debtors that
are in significant financial difficulties and have defaulted on payments. These receivables are not secured by
any collateral or credit enhancements.
		 The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables at the
reporting date which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.
120
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(a) Credit risk (Continued)
Trade receivables (Continued)
		Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Continued)
							 Loss 		
						 Gross Allowance Net
						 RM RM RM
		Group					
		2020		
			 Not past due		 21,942,033 (43,596) 21,898,437
			 Past due:						
		 Less than 30 days		 799,621 (27,146) 772,475
				 31 to 90 days		 947,736 (79,367) 868,369
			 91 to 150 days		 568,756 (117,151) 451,605
				 151 to 210 days		 315,638 (134,701) 180,937
				 210 to 270 days		 150,457 (80,812) 69,645
				 271 to 330 days		 89,735 (69,258) 20,477
				 331 to 365 days		 43,536 (34,005) 9,531
				 More than 365 days		 979,837 (752,743) 227,094
						 25,837,349 (1,338,779) 24,498,570
		Credit impaired 				
		 Individually impaired		 6,293,344 (2,188,859) 4,104,485
						 32,130,693 (3,527,638) 28,603,055
		2019		
			 Not past due		 20,847,758 (14,311) 20,833,447
			 Past due:						
		 Less than 30 days		 3,081,272 (10,040) 3,071,232
				 31 to 90 days		 3,525,186 (28,344) 3,496,842
				 91 to 150 days		 930,109 (30,427) 899,682
				 151 to 210 days		 122,836 (18,818) 104,018
				 210 to 270 days		 13,621 (4,999) 8,622
				 271 to 330 days		 41,393 (16,078) 25,315
				 More than 330 days		 1,341,141 (664,565) 676,576
		 				 29,903,316 (787,582) 29,115,734
		Credit impaired						
Individually impaired		 4,207,069 (1,580,862) 2,626,207
		
						 34,110,385 (2,368,444) 31,741,941
121
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(a) Credit risk (Continued)
		Inter-company loans and advances
		Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
		 The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the
subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.
		Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
		 As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statements of financial position. Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral
or supported by any other credit enhancements.
		Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
		 Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand, expected
credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date.
		 Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates
significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ loans and
advances when they are payable, the Company considers the loans and advances to be in default when the
subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded.
		 The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using internal
information available.
		 As at the end of the financial year, there was no indication that the advances to subsidiaries are not recoverable.
The Company does not specifically monitor the ageing of the current advances to subsidiaries. The Company
monitors the results of the subsidiaries regularly.
		Financial guarantee
		 The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the
subsidiaries.
		Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk amounts to RM28,781,703 (2019: RM32,359,289) representing the
outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The financial guarantee
is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’ banking facilities.
122
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(a) Credit risk (Continued)
		Financial guarantee (Continued)
		Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
		 The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial position
deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:-
		 - The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
		 - The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.
		 There was no indication that the subsidiaries with the granted banking facilities would default on repayment.
Hence, the financial guarantee granted by the Company has not been recognised since the fair value on initial
recognition was not material.
		Cash and cash equivalents
		 The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting period,
the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.
		Other receivables
		 Expected credit loss of other receivable is determined individually after considering the financial strength of the
other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risks is represented by
their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The Group has provided allowances for expected
credit losses on these amounts as disclosed in Note 16.
(b) Foreign currency risk
		 The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency of the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States
Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) and Thai Baht (“THB”).
123
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(b) Foreign currency risk (Continued)
		Exposure to foreign currency risk
		 The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional currency of the
Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period was:
				 Denominated in
				 USD SGD RMB THB Total
		 Group RM RM RM RM RM
		2020
		 Trade receivables 15,138,134 559,086 - - 15,697,220
		 Other receivables 922,483 3,375 - 3,132 928,990
		 Cash and bank balances 1,180,260 - - - 1,180,260
		 Trade payables (452,636) - (9,315) - (461,951)
		 Other payables (41,035) - - (925) (41,960)
		 Borrowings (8,467,774) - - - (8,467,774)
				 8,279,432 562,461 (9,315) 2,207 8,834,786
				 Denominated in
				 USD SGD RMB THB Total
		 Group RM RM RM RM
		2019
		 Trade receivables 11,604,276 303,376 - 11,907,652
		 Other receivables 93,378 - - 93,378
		 Cash and bank balances 915,924 - 22,643 938,567
		 Trade payables (5,232,403) - (9,315) (5,241,718)
		 Other payables (759,897) - - (759,897)
		 Borrowings (8,287,533) - - (8,287,533)
				 (1,666,255) 303,376 13,328 (1,349,551)
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
124
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(b) Foreign currency risk (Continued)
Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis
		 The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign currencies as
at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:
				 Group
				 2020 2019
				 Increase/ Increase/
				 (Decrease) in (Decrease) in
				 loss net of loss net of
				 tax/equity tax/equity
				 RM RM
		 Effects on loss after tax/equity:				
		
		RM/USD				
Strengthened by 5% 314,618 (63,318)
		 Weakened by 5% (314,618) 63,318
		RM/SGD
		 Strengthened by 5% 21,374 11,528
		 Weakened by 5% (21,374) (11,528)
						
RM/RMB				
Strengthened by 5% (354) 506
		 Weakened by 5% 354 (506)
RM/THB				
Strengthened by 5% 84 -
		 Weakened by 5% (84) -
(c) Interest rate risk
		 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from
interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.
		 In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective interest rates
at the reporting date are as disclosed in the respective notes.
125
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(c) Interest rate risk (Continued)
		 Exposure to interest rate risk
		 The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
				 Group
				 2020 2019
				 RM RM
		 Fixed rate instrument:			
Financial liabilities				
Lease liabilities (1,242,219) -
			 Financial lease payables - (108,957)
				 (1,242,219) (108,957)
		 Floating rate instrument:			
Financial asset				
Short-term repurchase agreement (“REPO”) 3,177,359 4,590,252
		Financial liabilities				
Bank Overdrafts (3,480,960) (1,041,994)
			
Term loans (12,674,353) (4,004,093)
				 (12,977,954) (455,835)
		 Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
		 The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably possible
change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-
				 Group
				 2020 2019
				 (Increase)/ (Increase)/
				 Decrease in Decrease in
				 loss net of loss net of
				 tax/equity tax/equity
				 RM RM
		 Effects on loss after tax/equity:				
Increase of 25 (2019: 10) basis points (24,658) (346)
		 Decrease of 25 (2019: 10) basis points 24,658 346
(d) Liquidity risk
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations associated with
financial liabilities. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of
financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding
and flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
126
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Continued)
(d) Liquidity risk (Continued)
		 The Group’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and
the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. In addition,
the Group maintains sufficient levels of cash and available banking facilities at a reasonable level to its overall
debt position to meet its working capital requirement.
		 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities at the
reporting date on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations:-
						
On demand 					
		 Carrying Contractual or within 1			 More than
				 amount cash flows year 1 - 2 years 2 - 5 years 5 years
		 Group RM RM RM RM RM RM
		2020					
		 Bank overdrafts 3,480,960 3,736,985 3,736,985 - - -
		 Bankers’ acceptances 22,053,774 22,942,105 22,942,105 - - -
		 Revolving credit 4,000,000 4,212,000 4,212,000 - - -
		 Term loans 12,674,353 16,789,301 1,708,368 1,708,368 4,870,559 8,502,006
		 Trade payables 19,590,710 19,590,710 19,590,710 - - -
		 Other payables 15,847,397 15,847,397 15,847,397 - - -
		 Lease liabilities 1,242,219 1,315,567 335,348 292,473 588,746 99,000
				 78,889,413 84,434,065 68,372,913 2,000,841 5,459,305 8,601,006
		2019					
		 Bank overdrafts 1,041,994 1,128,688 1,128,688 - - -
		 Bankers’ acceptances 27,317,295 28,825,210 28,825,210 - - -
		 Revolving credit 4,000,000 4,212,000 4,212,000 - - -
		 Finance lease payables 108,957 109,495 109,495 - - -
		 Term loans 4,004,093 4,625,975 813,420 813,420 2,440,260 558,875
		 Trade payables 9,012,728 9,012,728 9,012,728 - - -
		 Other payables 16,542,055 16,542,055 16,542,055 - - -
				 62,027,122 64,456,151 60,643,596 813,420 2,440,260 558,875
								
		 All of the Company’s liabilities at the reporting date mature within one year or repayable on demand.
(e) Equity price risk
		 Equity price risk mainly arises from the Group’s investment in quoted equity classified as fair value through
profit or loss as disclosed in Note 12.
		 The equity investments are held for long term strategic purposes. Their performance is assessed periodically
together with assessment of their relevance to the Group’s long-term strategic plans.
		 As at the reporting date, it is estimated that an increase of 10% in the market price of the quoted securities, with
all other variables held constant, would have increased the Group’s equity by RM75,400 (2019: RM138,600).
127
31. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION
The financial assets and financial liabilities maturing within the next twelve (12) months approximated their fair values
due to the relatively short-term maturity of these financial instruments. The disclosure of fair value is not made for
floating rate instruments that are repriced to market interest rate on or near the reporting date.
The fair values of finance lease payables are determined by discounting the relevant cash flows using current interest
rates for similar instruments as at the end of the reporting period. The carrying value and fair value of the non-current
portion of finance lease payables are not materially different.
The aggregate fair values and the carrying amounts of the financial assets carried on the statements of financial
position as at the reporting date are as below:
						 Total 		
						 fair Carrying
			 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value amount
			 RM RM RM RM RM
Group/Company
2020
Asset
Other investment 754,000 - - 754,000 754,000
2019
Asset
Other investment 1,386,000 - - 1,386,000 1,386,000
Level 1:
The fair value of other investments at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale are determined by
reference to their quoted closing bid prices at the end of the financial year.
Level 2:
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e
prices) or indirectly (i.e derived from prices).
Level 3:
The fair value is determined by discounting the relevant cash flows using interest rates for similar instruments at the
end of the reporting year.
There was no material transfer between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the financial year.
32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital. Net debt
includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances whilst total capital is equity attributable to
Owners of the Company.
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
128
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (Continued)
The net debt-to-equity ratios at end of the reporting period are as follows:-
		Group
						 2020 2019
						 RM RM
Borrowings (Note 21)			 42,209,087 36,472,339
Lease liabilities (Note 23)			 1,242,219 -
Less: Cash and bank balances			 (6,854,390) (10,203,759)
Total net debts/(cash)			 36,596,916 26,268,580
Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company			 101,891,151 113,672,455
Debt to equity ratio			 0.36 0.23
The net debt to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
The Group is in compliance with all externally imposed capital requirements.
33. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
(i)		 Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak
			 The World Health Organisation had on 11 March 2020 declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a global pandemic.
As a measure to contain the outbreak, the Government of Malaysia announced the MCO which is effective
from 18 March 2020. Effective 4 May 2020, the MCO has been transitioned into a conditional MCO until 9
June 2020. As announced on 7 June 2020, the conditional MCO has further been transitioned into a recovery
MCO (“RMCO”) which had commenced with effect from 10 June 2020 until 31 August 2020. Subsequently
vide an announcement on 28 August 2020, the RMCO was further extended from 31 August 2020 until 31
December 2020. Under the RMCO, more economic sectors and businesses will be allowed to be opened subject
to adherence with the necessary strict standard operating procedures (“SOP”).
			 As for the Group’s Indonesian operating subsidiary, the Indonesian Government implemented Pembatasan
Sosial Berskala Besar (“PSBB) to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 which is equivalent to a partial lockdown from
28 April 2020 to 11 May 2020. PSBB was extended twice to 25 May 2020 and subsequently up to 8 June 2020
of which PSBB was uplifted and business were able to operate with strict health protocols.
			 The outbreak of COVID-19 is an event of force majeure that is beyond the control of our Group. There is no
assurance that the COVID-19 outbreak and or the RMCO or PSBB will not have a material adverse impact on
the market conditions and or the industry in which our Group operates. Further, no assurance can be given
that there the COVID-19 outbreak and/ or the RMCO or PSBB will not have any material adverse impact to
the supply chain of our Group’s raw materials and the operations of our production facilities. Potential risks
arising therefrom may include but not limited to slowdown in customers’ demand, disruption in supply chain
of our Group’s raw materials and products, increased operating costs to comply with the SOP and disruptions
to the output of our production facilities as a result of a re-enforcement of the MCO or PSBB or a breakout of
COVID-19 in proximity to our production facilities, any of which may result in an adverse effect on our Group’s
business and financial conditions.
129
33. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS (Continued)
(ii) Proposed Rights Issue
			 On 19 May 2020, the Board proposed to the following:
			 i) renounceable rights issue of up to 246,626,468 Rights Shares at the issue price of RM0.10 per Rights Share,
on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 1 existing Rex Share held on the Entitlement Date; and
			 ii) Exemption to Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. (“DTSB”), Darmendran Kunaretnam (“DK”) and their Persons acting
in concert with DTSB and DK (“PACs”), under Paragraph 4.08(1)(b) of the Rules from the obligation to
undertake the Mandatory Offer pursuant to the Proposed Rights Issue under Paragraph 4.08(1)(b) of the
Rules.
				
On 15 June 2020, the application has been submitted to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
and the application has been approved by Bursa Securities vide its letter dated 23 June 2020 subject to the
following:-
• Full compliance with the relevant provisions under the Main Market Listing Requirements pertaining to the
implementation of the Proposed Rights Issue;
• To inform Bursa Securities upon completion of the Proposed Rights Issues; and
• To furnish Bursa Securities with a written confirmation of its compliance with the terms and conditions of
Bursa Securities’ approval once the Proposed Rights Issue is completed.
34. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
Certain comparative figures are reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentations.
					
		Group
			 As As previously
			 reclassified reported
			 RM RM
			
Statements of Cash Flows Cash Flows				
Cash Flows from Operating Activities				
Changes in working capital:				
Receivables (12,536,316) (12,477,963)
Cash used in operations (13,104,954) (13,046,601)
Net cash used in operating activities (15,125,881) (15,067,528)
				
Cash flows from financing activities				
Net drawdown of borrowings 5,727,518 5,725,569
Repayment of finance lease payables (378,773) (376,824)
				
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (11,138,708) (11,080,355)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and bank balances 58,353 -
Notes To The Financial Statements
- 30 June 2020
(Continued)
130
Location/		 Tenure Land area Date of Net book Value
(Registered Description (Approx. age (Built up) Acquisition/ 30/6/2020
owner) (Lot/Title No) of building) sq. ft. *Revaluation (RM)
Plot 125, Industrial Land 60 years with 6.0052 Acre * 30 August 2012 12,686,545
Bukit Minyak with factory 42 years (261,586)				
Industrial Park,		 remaining sq. ft.			
Seberang Perai Tengah.		 (18 years)				
Plot 126, Industrial land 60 years with 1.74236 Acre * 30 August 2012		 8,071,126
Bukit Minyak 		 52 years				
Industrial Park,		 remaining				
Seberang Perai Tengah.		 (8 years)				
Lintang Mak Mandin, Residential premises Freehold 1,086 sq. ft. 31 December 1996 101,434
Taman Bayu, (Lot 4639/HS(D)3363) 					
13400 Butterworth. (Lot 4654/HS(D)3378)						
JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42, Industrial Land 130 years with (252,207) * 30 November		 6,270,275
Beji, Pasuraun, Jawa Timur, with factory 105 years sq. ft. 2012
Indonesia.		 remaining			
			 (25 years)				
JI. Raya Beji Km 4, Industrial Land		 3.73 acre 5 September 2012 6,217,217
Desa Beji, Kecamatan Beji,							
Kabupaten Pasuraun,							
Propinsi Jawa Timur,
Indonesia.							
No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1, 3 Storey Leasehold 2,024 sq. 10 August 2016		 4,439,244
Taman Industri Alam Jaya, Semi-Detached Factory meters				
Bandar Puncak Alam, Type B						
42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.							
22, Jalan Perniagaan 3 Storey terrace shop		 149 sq. 5 August 2016		 1,356,330
Seri Tambun, office		 meters
Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,							
14100 Simpang Ampat,							
Pulau Pinang.							
No.42, Lintasan Perajurit 17C, 1½ storey 99 years with 186 sq. 24 November 2016		 411,365
Taman Perdagangan & intermediate 76 years meters			
Perindustrian Ipoh, factory lot remaining				
31400 Ipoh, Perak.		 (23 years)
No. 1A, Jalan Kampung Industrial land Freehold 2.3051 hectares * 26 September		 13,651,762
Sungai Suloh, with Factory cum			 2019
Mukim Minyak Beku, office
83000 Batu Pahat, Johor
Properties
As at 30 June 2020
FORM OF PROXY
*I/We (Full name),
bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
of (Full address)
being *a member/members of of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-
First Proxy “A”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings Represented
			 No. of Shares %
Full Address
*and
Second Proxy “B”
Full Name (in Block Capital) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings Represented
			 No. of Shares %
Full Address
				 100%
or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/our proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twenty-Sixth
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at Function Room 1-3, Level 1, TPC Kuala Lumpur, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala
Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan on Tuesday, 24 November 2020 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
(Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given, the proxy will vote or abstain
at his/her discretion)
* Strike out whichever is inapplicable
Signed this day of , 2020
Signature of Member Common Seal to be affixed here if Member is a corporation, if applicable
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Sixth AGM (“Meeting”):-
1. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting, the Company shall be requesting the Record of Depositors as at 13 November 2020. Only members
whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 13 November 2020 shall be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting of the Company.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company, shall be entitled to appoint proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote instead of him. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy,
he shall specify the proportions of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy, failing which the appointment shall be invalid.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds deposited securities in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit
to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing, under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified true copy of that power of authority, shall be deposited at Level 7, Menara
Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan or submitted via fax at +603-2094 9940 and/or +603-2095 0292 or emailed to info@sshsb.com.
my, not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting i.e., on or before Sunday, 22 November 2020 at 10:00 a.m. and in default, the instrument of proxy
shall not be treated as valid.
6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited
Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
7. Pursuant to Section 320(2) of the Companies Act 2016, a copy of this Notice together with the Form of Proxy are available at the corporate website of the Company at www.rexmalaysia.com.
2 To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting to RM270,750.00 to be paid on
a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2021 and thereafter. (Resolution 1)
3 To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM100,000.00 from 25 November 2020 until the next AGM
of the Company. (Resolution 2)
4(a) To re-elect Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being
eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 3)
4(b) To re-elect Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, who is due to retire in accord-ance with Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being
eligible, had offered himself for re-election. (Resolution 4)
5 To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Audi-tors of the Company until the conclusion of the next AGM and
to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. (Resolution 5)
Special Business
6 Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016. (Resolution 6)
7 Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature.
			 (Resolution 7)
8 Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares. (Resolution 8)
No. Agenda
1 To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
For Against
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
[199301027926 (282664-K)]
No. of Ordinary Shares held
CDS Account No.
Telephone No.
Email Address
Fold this flap for sealing
The Company Secretaries
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
[Registration No.199301027926 (282664-K)]
c/o Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan.
Then Fold Here
1st Fold Here
Affix
Stamp
