                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (THE “BOARD”) OF SDS GROUP BERHAD (“SDS” OR THE "COMPANY") PRESENTS
THIS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (“CG STATEMENT”) TO PROVIDE SHAREHOLDERS AND
INVESTORS WITH AN OVERVIEW OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES OF THE COMPANY DURING
THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022 (“FYE 2022”).

The CG Statement is made pursuant to Rule 15.25(1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”)
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and Guidance Note 11 of Bursa Securities’ Listing Requirements
and the Corporate Governance Guide (4th Edition) issued by Bursa Securities with reference to the following three (3) key
principles under the leadership of the Board:

Principle A                         Principle B                        Principle C

Board leadership and effectiveness  Effective audit and risk management Integrity in corporate reporting
                                                                                             and meaningful relationships with
∞ Board responsibilities                                                                     stakeholders
∞ Board composition
∞ Remuneration                      ∞ Audit Committee                  ∞ Engagement with stakeholders
                                    ∞ Risk management and internal 		  ∞ Conduct of general meetings

                                        control

The CG Statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report 2022 (“CG Report”) of the Company
which is available at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

1.0 BOARD’S LEADERSHIP

             1.1 The Board takes full responsibility for the oversight and overall performance of SDS and its subsidiaries
                   (collectively the “Group”) and provided leadership within a framework of prudence and effective
                   controls which enables risks to be appropriately assessed and managed. The Board recognises the key
                   role it plays in charting the strategic direction of the Group and has assumed the following principal
                   responsibilities in discharging its fiduciary duties:

                   (a) Reviewing and adopting a strategic plan for the Group, addressing the sustainability of the Group’s
                         business;

                   (b) Overseeing the conduct of the Group’s businesses and evaluating whether its businesses are
                         being properly managed;

                   (c) Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensuring the implementation of
                         appropriate internal controls and mitigating measures to address such risks;

                   (d) Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control and management
                         information systems;

                   (e) Carrying out periodic review of the Group’s financial performance, operating results and major
                         capital commitments; and

                   (f) Reviewing and approving any major corporate proposals, new business ventures or joint ventures
                         of the Group.

                   To ensure the effective discharge of its function and responsibilities, the Board has delegated specific
                   responsibilities to the following Committees:

                   1) Audit Committee (“AC”);
                   2) Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”); and
                   3) Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).

                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 035
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

1.0 BOARD’S LEADERSHIP (CONT'D)

             1.1 All committees have a written Terms of Reference (“TOR”) to guide them to perform its roles and
                   responsibilities respectively. The Chairman of the respective Committees will report to the Board
                   of the outcome of the Committees meetings for the Board’s considerations and approvals and
                   extracts of such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meetings. The Board retains full
                   responsibility for the direction and control of the Company.

             1.2 The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for the effective performance of the Board. He
                   ensures that all relevant issues and quality information to facilitate decision-making and effective
                   running of the Company’s business are included in the meeting agenda.

                   The Chairman of the Board, had during the year:

                   • demonstrated leadership to the Board in discharging his duties and responsibilities effectively
                         without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for the Board decisions;

                   • through the Company Secretary, set the board agenda and ensure that Board members receive
                         complete and accurate information in a timely manner;

                   • led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged constructive
                         discussions and effective contribution from each Director;

                   • led the Board in establishing and monitoring good corporate governance practices within the
                         Group;

                   • reviewed the minutes of the Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the
                         Board’s deliberations, and matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly; and

                   • chaired the general meetings of the Company and committed to answering queries from the
                         shareholders.

             1.3 The positions of the Chairman and Managing Director are held by two (2) different individuals to
                   promote accountability and facilitate the division of responsibilities between them. In this regard, no
                   one individual can influence the Board’s discussions and decision-making. Generally, the Chairman
                   would lead the Board in its collective oversight of management, while the Managing Director focuses
                   on the business and day-to-day management of the Company. The distinct and separate roles of the
                   Chairman and Managing Director, with a clear division of responsibilities, ensure a balance of power
                   and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making, and are clearly
                   defined in the Board Charter.

             1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of our NRC and also a member of our AC and
                   RMC. The Board took cognisance that having the same person assume the position of Chairman
                   of the Board and member of other Board committees gives rise to the risk of self-review and may
                   impair the objectivity of the Chairman and the Board when deliberating on the observations and
                   recommendations put forth by the Board committees. However, Dr Lim Pang Kiam is not involved in
                   the management and operational matters of the Group, and he always provides constructive ideas
                   and opinions to the Board and Board Committees respectively based on different perspectives as a
                   Board Chairman and member of the Board Committees.

             1.5 The Board is supported by suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries who are qualified
                   secretaries under Section 235(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2016. The appointment of Company
                   Secretaries is based on the capability and proficiency determined by the Board. The Constitution
                   of the Company permits the removal of Company Secretaries by the Board. All members of the
                   Board, whether as a whole or in their individual capacity, have access to the advice and services of
                   the Company Secretaries on all matters relating to the Group to assist them in the furtherance of
                   their duties. The Board is regularly updated and kept informed by the Company Secretaries and the
                   Management of the requirements such as restrictions in dealing with the securities of the Company
                   and updates as issued by the various regulatory authorities including the latest developments in the
                   legislation and regulatory framework affecting the Group.

036 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                               SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

1.0 BOARD’S LEADERSHIP (CONT'D)

             1.5 The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the Board in
                   the discharge of its function and duties.

             1.6 The Notice of the Board and Board Committee meetings are served to the Directors and Board Committee
                   members at least five (5) business days prior to the Board Meeting unless there is an exceptional case.

                   All meeting materials are circulated to Directors at least five (5) business days in advance of Board and Board
                   Committee meetings via email to allow ample time for Directors to consider the relevant information.

                   The Minutes of the Board and Board Committee meetings are circulated to the respective Chairman in a timely
                   manner for review before they are confirmed. All Board members reviewed and confirmed the minutes of
                   meetings to ensure they accurately reflect the deliberations and decisions of the Board, including whether any
                   Director abstained from voting or deliberation on a particular matter.

2.0 DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES

             2.1 The Board is guided by a Board Charter which sets out the principles governing the Board of the Company
                   and adopts the principles of good governance and practice in accordance with applicable laws, rules and
                   regulations in Malaysia. The Board Charter also sets out the respective roles and responsibilities of the Board,
                   Board committees, individual Directors and the Management and issues and decisions reserved for the Board.

                   The Board will review the Board Charter from time to time to ensure that the Board Charter remains consistent
                   with the Board’s objectives, current law and practices.

                   The Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.

                   All the Directors of the Company had always discharged their duties and responsibilities as fiduciaries objectively
                   in the best interests of the Company. During the FYE 2022, all the Directors of the Company had attended
                   appropriate training/briefing programmes to update and enhance their knowledge to enable them to discharge
                   their duties more effectively as Directors and to keep abreast of the development in the marketplace. Below are
                   the training/briefing programmes attended by each of the Directors:

Director      Programme  Date
Tan Kim Seng
Tan Kim Chai  Advocacy Session for ACE Market Listed 21 September 2021
              Corporation by Bursa Malaysia Berhad
Tan Kee Jin
              Human Rights Issues in Businesses: 28 October 2021
              Closing Gaps in Implementing and
              Reporting by Bursa Malaysia Berhad

              Understanding Board Decision-Making 15 & 16 June 2021
              Process by Asia School of Business –
              ICLIF Executive Education Center

              Share Buy-Back – A Regulatory 2 September 2021
              Perspective by CKM Advisory Sdn Bhd

              Dealings In Listed Securities, Closed 8 & 9 September 2021
              Period & Insider Trading by CKM
              Advisory Sdn Bhd

                               ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 037
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

2.0 DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT'D)

Director                  Programme                                Date
Tan Yon Haw
Dr Lim Pang Kiam          Crowe Expert Hour: Financial Due 11 November 2021
                          Diligence From a Corporate Advisory
Phang Sze Fui             Perspective by Crowe Malaysia PLT

                          PIKOM Cybersecurity Chapter: 29 June 2021
                          Cybercrime Malware Attacks &
                          Digital Forensic

                          Anti-Bribery and Corruption              14 July 2021

                          AOB Conversation with Audit 6 December 2021
                          Committees

                          Implementing Amendments in               1 June 2021
                          the Malaysian Code on Corporate
                          Governance by Asia School of Business –
                          ICLIF Executive Education Center

                          Pre & Post IPO Rules and Key Updates 24 June 2021
                          to Listing Requirements by MIA

                          Budget 2022 by MIA                       2 December 2021

                          Introduction to Integrated Reporting 7 December 2021
                          by MIA

                          Climate Disclosure Training Programme 2 March 2022
                          (Session 1) by Bursa Malaysia Berhad

                          Climate Disclosure Training Programme 9 March 2022
                          (Session 2) by Bursa Malaysia Berhad

Dato’ Albert Ding Choo S17A MACC – Act Corporate Liability         13 July 2021
Earn

                          Overview of Competition Law in 19 August 2021
                          Malaysia

                          Claim for liquidated ascertained 20 August 2021
                          damages in the time of Covid-19

                          Restructuring Options under the 6 September 2021
                          Companies Act 2016

                          IPO – The 5 Focus Areas and 6 September 2021
                          Meaningful Disclosures

                          Company Legislation and Companies 7 September 2021
                          Commission Malaysia

                          Digital/ Electronic Signatures 7 September 2021
                          Legislation & Developments

                          Environmental,      Social    and 8 September 2021

                          Governance (ESG)

                          Personal Data Protection Act             8 September 2021

038 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                    SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

2.0 DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT'D)

Director               Programme              Date

                       Advising Tech Companies and 9 September 2021
                       Startups from a Lawyer’s perspective:
                       Opportunities and Challenges

                       Listing Considerations Under Bursa 9 September 2021
                       Malaysia

                       Tax Law (Recent Adventures in during 9 September 2021
                       Tax Authorities)

                       Anti-Corruption Commission Act 10 September 2021
                       2009

                       Competition Law (Gamechanger or 10 September 2021
                       Dealbreaker)

                       The Corporate Governance Landscape 15 September 2021
                       in Malaysia: Going Beyond The Rules

                       Deductible Expenses: What is Meant 24 September 2021
                       By Expenses Wholly and Exclusively
                       Incurred for the Production of Income

                       Fraud Risk Management Workshop 10 December 2021
                       2021

The Directors will continue to undergo a periodic training in the relevant courses as well as attend
seminars, conferences and similar events in keeping themselves abreast with the latest skills and
knowledge to discharge their duties effectively.

NRC

During the FYE 2022, the NRC comprised of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors as follows:

Name                         Designation      Directorship
Dr Lim Pang Kiam             Chairman         Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Ms Phang Sze Fui             Member           Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn  Member           Independent Non-Executive Director

Activities of the NRC

During the FYE 2022, the NRC met three (3) times and performed the following activities in the
discharge of its duties:

∞ Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Fourth AGM of
      the Company;

∞ Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character,
      experience, integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a director through a
      comprehensive assessment system;

∞ Reviewed the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities of the Board;
∞ Evaluated the performance of the Board and the Board committees;
∞ Assessed the independence of the Independent Directors of the Company; and
∞ Reviewed the term of office of the AC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole.

                                                                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 039
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

2.0 DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT'D)

            The attendance of Directors who are members of Board Committees during the FYE 2022 is set out below:

Directors                    Board  AC   NRC   RMC
Tan Kim Seng                                -     -
Tan Kim Chai                 5/5    -       -     -
Tan Yon Haw                                 -     -
Tan Kee Jin                  5/5    -       -    1/1
Dr Lim Pang Kiam                          3/3    1/1
Phang Sze Fui                5/5    -     3/3   0/1
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn               3/3    1/1
                             5/5    -

                             5/5    5/5

                             4/5    4/5

                             5/5    5/5

                                  Chairman

3.0 GOOD BUSINESS CONDUCT AND HEALTHY CORPORATE CULTURE

             3.1 The Board has in place a Whistle Blowing Policy and serves as a platform and laid out the procedures for employees
                   to raise genuine concerns about any suspected and/or known unethical behaviour, malpractices, illegal acts or
                   failure to comply with regulatory requirements that is taking place and/or has taken place and/or may take place
                   in the future at the earliest opportunity, without being subject to victimisation, harassment or discriminatory
                   treatment.

                   The Whistle Blowing Policy sets out the protection to any reporting individual who has made the disclosure
                   or report in good faith, the confidentiality and safeguarding in dealing with such disclosure or report, the
                   communication channel and the procedurals flow of making the disclosure or report.

             3.2 In discharging its responsibilities, the Board is also guided by a Code of Conduct and Ethics for Directors in the
                   Board Charter. The Code of Conduct and Ethics provides guidance for Directors and employees of the Group
                   regarding ethical and behavioural considerations and/or actions as they address their duties and obligations
                   during the appointment. Directors are expected to conform and observe an appropriate decorum and behaviour
                   that promote honesty and integrity when engaging with both employees and stakeholders.

4.0 SUSTAINABILITY

             4.1 Our Board is ultimately responsible in managing sustainability matters in our Group. Supported by the
                   Sustainability Working Group, the Managing Director oversee the sustainability efforts in place to ensure proper
                   monitoring and reporting. The Board meets at least annually to discuss on Sustainability matters including
                   reviewing the material matters to ensure they stay relevant and up to date.

             4.2 In the FYE 2022, the Company continued to engage with our key stakeholders through various channels and
                   platforms to obtain feedbacks on key areas of interest to them, gaining insights into emerging issues that are
                   significant to both stakeholders and the Group.

             4.3 The Board through the NRC reviewed the training programmes attended by each Director during the FYE
                   2022 to ensure that the Directors had and will continue to constantly keep themselves abreast on the relevant
                   requirements and matters concerning the sustainability, including the latest development in industry as well as
                   the sustainability issues relevant to the Group.

040 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

5.0 BOARD COMPOSITION

             5.1 The NRC oversees and reviews on an on-going basis, the overall composition of the Board in terms of
                   size, the required mix of skills, experience and other qualities and core competencies for the Directors
                   of the Company. The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the contribution and performance
                   of each individual Director to the effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees will also be
                   assessed by the NRC on an annual basis.

             5.2 For the FYE 2022, the Board comprised seven (7) members, of which three (3) of them are Independent
                   Non-Executive Directors. The Board’s composition is in compliance with the provisions of the Listing
                   Requirements of Bursa Securities for independent non-executive directors to make up at least one
                   third (1/3) of the Board membership.

             5.3 None of the Independent Directors has exceeded a cumulative term of nine (9) years in the Company
                   as of the FYE 2022.

             5.4 The Board has adopted a policy that limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years,
                   being a step-up practice.

             5.5 Although the Group does not have a written policy on gender diversity, the Board is supportive of
                   diversity in gender, ethnicity and age as it can offer greater depth and breadth compared to non-
                   diverse board. The Board practices no discrimination in terms of appointment of Directors as well as
                   hiring employees wherein the Directors and Senior Management are recruited based on their merit,
                   skills and experiences and not driven by age, cultural background and gender. The Board affirms that
                   appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior management will be prioritised
                   when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are identified. For the FYE 2022, there is one (1)
                   female Director on the Board.

             5.6 In searching for suitable candidates, the Board may receive suggestions from existing Board
                   Members, Management, and major shareholders. The Board is also open to referrals from external
                   sources available, such as industry and professional associations, as well as independent search firms.
                   Where and when appropriate, the Board will prioritise the appointment of more female Directors to
                   the Board and Senior Management, based on needs and merits.

             5.7 The performance of retiring Directors who are recommended for re-election at the forthcoming
                   AGM would be assessed through the Board and Board Committee evaluations which include the
                   independence of the Independent Non-Executive Director, if any.

             5.8 The NRC is chaired by Dr Lim Pang Kiam, the Independent Director of the Board. The NRC Chairman
                   has led the annual review of Board effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of each individual
                   Director is independently assessed and will lead the succession planning and appointment of future
                   Board members.

             5.9 The TOR of NRC is available at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.

6.0 OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BOARD

             6.1 The Board has, through the NRC, conducted the following annual assessments on 27 May 2022:

                   ∞ Directors’ self and peer assessment;
                   ∞ Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
                   ∞ Assessment of Independent Directors; and
                   ∞ Review of the term of office and performance of AC and each of its members.

                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 041
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT'D)

6.0 OVERALL EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BOARD (CONT'D)

             Based on the outcome of the evaluation, the NRC is:
             ∞ Satisfied with the performance of the individual Director;
             ∞ Satisfied with the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees;
             ∞ Satisfied with the level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Directors and their ability

                   to act in the best interest of the Company; and
             ∞ Satisfied with the performance of the AC and each of its members.
             All assessments and evaluations carried out will be documented by the Company Secretary. The results
             of all assessment and comments by Directors are summarised and deliberated at the NRC meeting and
             thereafter reported to the Board.
             The Board will consider engaging a professional, experienced and independent party to lend greater
             objectivity to the assessments as and when required.

7.0 LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION

             7.1 The remuneration of Directors is determined at levels which enable the Company to attract and retain
                   Directors with the relevant experience and expertise to manage the business of the Group effectively.
                   The NRC oversees the remuneration of Directors. The remuneration for Directors is in line with the
                   Board’s aim to retain, attract and reward talent based on industry benchmarks.
                   The remuneration package for Executive Directors is reviewed by the NRC and recommended to
                   the Board for approval. It is then decided by the Board without the respective Executive Directors’
                   participation in determining their remuneration.
                   Bonuses payable to Executive Directors are performance-based and relate to the individual and the
                   Company’s as well as Group’s achievement of specific goals. The Non-Executive Directors do not
                   receive any performance related remuneration.

8.0 REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT

             8.1 The detailed disclosure on a named basis for the remuneration of the Directors is set out in the CG
                   Report.

             8.2 The Board is of the view that the disclosure of the Senior Management’s remuneration components
                   will not be in the best interest of the Group given the competitive human resources environment
                   as such disclosure may give rise to talent recruitment and retention issue. Also premised on the
                   confidentiality of the remuneration package of our Senior Management, the Board has adopted a
                   disclosure of our Senior Management remuneration in bands of RM50,000 on an unnamed basis.

             8.3 The Company is of the view that the disclosure of the detailed remuneration of each member of
                   Senior Management on a named basis would not derive any tangible benefits to the stakeholders.

 042 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

9.0 EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC

             9.1 The AC is chaired by Ms Phang Sze Fui, an Independent Non-Executive Director, which is a separate
                   person from the Chairman of the Board.

                   She is responsible to ensure the overall effectiveness and independence of the AC. Together with
                   other members of the AC, she had ensured among others that:

                   ∞ The AC is fully informed about significant matters related to the Company’s audit and its financial
                         statements and addresses these matters;

                   ∞ the AC appropriately communicates its insights, views and concerns about relevant transactions
                         and events to internal and external auditors;

                   ∞ the AC’s concerns on matters that may have an effect on the financial or audit of the Company are
                         communicated to the external auditor; and

                   ∞ there is co-ordination between internal and external auditors.

             9.2 The AC has established policies and procedures to assess the suitability, objectivity and independence
                   of external auditors and such assessment would be carried out annually.

                   During the FYE 2022, the AC and the Board proposed and recommended that Crowe Malaysia PLT be
                   re-appointed as the external auditors of the Company and this was approved by the shareholders of
                   the Company at the Fourth AGM of the Company based on the credentials and resources of Crowe
                   Malaysia PLT, as well as their communication with the AC.

                   Crowe Malaysia PLT also provided its written assurance to the AC that they are, and have been,
                   independent through the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with By-Laws of the
                   Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).

             9.3 The AC comprises all Independent Directors.

             9.4 As promulgated by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance ("MCCG"), the AC should collectively
                   possess a wide range of necessary skills to discharge its duties, and all members should be financially
                   literate and are able to understand matters under the purview of the AC including the financial
                   reporting process. Two AC members are Chartered Accountants and members of the MIA. The
                   members of the AC collectively possess the accounting and related financial management expertise
                   and experience required for the AC to discharge its responsibilities and assist the Board in its oversight
                   over the financial reporting process.

                   All members of the AC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous professional
                   development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and auditing
                   standards, practices, and rules as and when required.
             .

                      ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 043
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT'D)

10.0  RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

      10.1 The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing the Company’s risks, approving the risk
               management framework and policy and overseeing the Company’s strategic risk management
               and internal control framework to achieve its objectives within an acceptable risk profile as well as
               safeguarding the interest of stakeholders and shareholders and the Group’s assets.

               The Board is supported by the RMC which reports to the Board regarding the Group’s risk
               exposures, including a review of risk assessment model used to monitor the risk exposures and
               the Management’s view on the acceptable and appropriate level of risks faced by the Group. The
               RMC will continue to evaluate, review and monitor the Group’s risk management framework and
               activities on on-going basis to identify, assess and monitor the key business risks of the Company to
               safeguard shareholders’ investment and Company’s assets.

      10.2 The Company also engages the internal auditors to provide independent assessments on the
               adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Company’s internal control system. The internal
               auditors report directly to the AC and internal audit plans are tabled to the AC for review and
               approval by the Board to ensure adequate coverage.

               The process of the risk management and internal control are ongoing, which are undertaken by
               each department within the Group. The Group will continuously enhance the existing system of risk
               management and internal control by taking into consideration the changing business environment.

               Further details on the features of the risk management and internal control framework, and the
               adequacy and effectiveness of this framework, are disclosed in the Statement on Risk Management
               and Internal Control in this Annual Report 2022.

      10.3 The RMC is chaired by Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn and comprises a majority of Independent
               Directors.

11.0 EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

             11.1 The internal audit function of the Company is carried out by an outsourced professional service firm
                      that assists the AC and the Board in managing the risks and establishment of the internal control
                      system and processes of the Company by providing an independent assessment on the adequacy,
                      efficiency and effectiveness of the Company’s risk management and internal control system and
                      processes.

                      The internal auditors report directly to both the AC and the Board. The internal auditors have and will
                      continue to keep abreast with developments in the profession, relevant industry and regulations.

                      The internal audit function is independent of the operations of the Company and provides reasonable
                      assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is satisfactory and operating effectively.
                      Further details of the internal audit function are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
                      Internal Control and the AC Report of this Annual Report.

             11.2 The internal audit function is outsourced to Sterling Business Alignment Consulting Sdn. Bhd. and
                      the internal audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest,
                      which could impair their objectivity and independence. The internal audit was conducted using
                      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) Internal Control-
                      Integrated Framework. Using this framework, all internal control assessments performed by IA are
                      based on the internal control elements, scope and coverage.

044 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS

12.0  CONTINUOUS COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND STAKEHOLDERS

      12.1 The Board is committed to provide effective, transparent and regular communication with its
               shareholders and other stakeholders regarding the business, operations and financial performance
               of the Group to enable them to make informed decisions.

               Through its website www.sdsgroups.com and its announcements on Bursa Malaysia’s website,
               the Group shares mandatory public announcements as well as publishes its quarterly and annual
               results. The quarterly financial results are announced via Bursa LINK immediately after the Board’s
               approval. This is important in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public.

      12.2 The Company is not categorised as “Large companies” and hence, have not adopted integrated
               reporting based on a globally recognised framework.

13.0  ENCOURAGE SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION AT GENERAL MEETINGS

      13.1 The Notice for the Fourth AGM that was held on 27 August 2021 was issued on 29 July 2021 and provided
               shareholders sufficient time to read and consider the resolutions to be resolved for shareholders to make an
               informed decision in exercising their voting rights.

      13.2 All the Directors of the Company attended the Fourth AGM of the Company held on 27 August 2021 on a
               fully virtual basis to engage with shareholders and proxies proactively. The said AGM included an avenue for
               questions and answers to shareholders and proxies. The Chairman had invited shareholders and proxies to
               raise their questions on the Company’s financial statements and other items for approval at the said AGM.

      13.3 In view of the COVID-19 pandemic during the FYE 2021, the Company had taken the necessary precautions
               and preventive measures in complying with the directives issued by the Ministry of Health Malaysia. These
               include the option of remote shareholders and proxy participation at the AGM. At its virtual Fourth AGM held
               on 27 August 2021, the Company had continued to leverage on technology to facilitate remote shareholders’
               participation and electronic voting for the conduct of a poll on the resolution.

      13.4 The Chairman of the Board ensured that sufficient opportunities were given to shareholders and proxies to
               raise questions relating to the affairs of the Company and that adequate responses were given.

      13.5 The Board had ensured that the required infrastructure and tools were in placed to enable the smooth
               broadcast of the Fourth AGM and meaningful engagement with the shareholders. The questions posed by the
               shareholders were responded by the Directors. The Board would consider questions posed by shareholders are
               made visible to the participants for future general meetings.

      13.6 The Minutes of the Fourth AGM, which includes the questions raised by shareholders together with the
               responses by the Company and outcome of the voting results, was made available to the shareholders within
               thirty (30) business days after the Fourth AGM at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.

COMPLIANCE STATEMENT

Saved as disclosed above, the Board is satisfied that throughout the FYE 2022, the Company has applied the
principles and recommendations of the corporate governance set out in MCCG, where necessary and appropriate.
This CG Statement was approved by the Board on 22 July 2022.

                      ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 045
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTRODUCTION

Pursuant to Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Board of
Directors (the “Board”) of SDS Group Berhad (“SDS” or the “Company”) is pleased to report on its Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control (the “Statement”), which provides an overview of the nature and state of risk
management and internal controls of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the financial year ended
31 March 2022. This Statement is guided by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines
for Directors of Listed Issuers and Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021.

BOARD RESPONSIBILITY

The Board recognises the importance of good risk management practices and sound internal controls as a platform
to good corporate governance. The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system
of risk management and internal control, and for reviewing its adequacy and effectiveness to ensure shareholders’
interest and the Group’s assets are safeguarded. The Group’s risk management and internal controls not only
covers the financial aspect of the Group, but operational and compliance aspects of the Group's system.

Given the inherent limitations in any risk management and internal control system, such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate risks that may impede the achievement of the Group’s business objectives. Therefore,
the risk management and internal control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
any material misstatement, loss, fraud or irregularities.

RISK MANAGEMENT

The Board recognised that risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operation and has, through
delegation to the Audit Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), established an on-going
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this process includes
enhancing the risk management and internal control system as and when there are changes to the business
environment and regulatory requirements. The process is subject to regular reviews by the Board.

The duties and responsibilities of the RMC in relation to risk management are as follows:

1. To oversee and recommend the risk management policies and procedures for our Group;
2. To review and recommend changes as needed to ensure that our Group has in place at all times a risk

     management policy which addresses the strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks;
3. To implement and maintain a sound risk management framework which identifies, assesses, manages and

     monitors our Group’s business risks;
4. To set reporting guidelines for management to report to the committee on the effectiveness of our Group’s

     management of its business risks;
5. To review the risk profile of our Group including all our subsidiaries and to evaluate the measures taken to

     mitigate the business risks; and
6. To review the adequacy of management response to issues identified in risk registers, ensuring that our risks

     are managed within our Group’s risk appetite.

The Board has established an enterprise risk management policy which facilitates and enhance the Group’s ability to identify
and manage key business risk which the Group may face during its day-to-day management of operations, processes and
structures. A Risk Management Working Group (“RMWG”) comprising of the Head of Departments was established to assume
the overall responsibility for developing procedures and processes which identify, evaluate and monitor key business risks in the
operations of the Group. The RMWG has conducted discussions during the year to identify and address key business risks faced
by the Group. These risks were summarised and included in the Group’s risk management assessment report.

The RMC, supported by the IA, provides an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s Risk Management
framework and reports to the Board. This helps to reduce the uncertainties surrounding the Group’s internal and external
environment, thus allowing it to maximise opportunities and minimise adverse incidences that may arise.

 046 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL AUDIT

The Board is fully aware of the importance of the internal audit function. The Group has engaged an independent
professional consulting firm, Sterling Business Alignment Consulting Sdn Bhd (“IA Firm”), which report to the AC
directly and assists the Board and AC in providing an independent assessment on the adequacy, efficiency and
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control.

The IA firm is free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair its objectivity and independence
of the internal audit function. The IA firm does not have any direct operational responsibility or authority over any
of the activities audited. The AC is of the opinion that the internal audit functions are effective and able to function
independently.

Scheduled internal audits are carried out based on the annual audit plan approved by the AC. The internal
auditors align their current internal audit practices with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) internal Controls – Integrated Framework. Using this framework, all internal control
assessments performed by IA are based on the internal control elements, scope and coverage.

The assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls established in mitigating risks is carried
out through interviews and discussion with the Management team, review of relevant established policies and
procedures and authority limits, and observing and testing of the internal controls on a sampling basis. The IA firm
has presented its audit findings and recommendation together with Management’s response and action plans
to the AC. Subsequent review will be carried out to follow up on the status of implementation of Management’s
action plans and report to the AC accordingly.

For the financial year ended 31 March 2022, two (2) internal audit reviews had been carried out and reported by
Internal Auditors:

Name of Entity Audited                Audited Areas
                                        ∞ Procurement and Sourcing
  ∞ City Cake House Sdn. Bhd.
  ∞ Daily Bakery Sdn. Bhd.              ∞ Inventory Management
  ∞ SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn. Bhd.    ∞ Logistics and Delivery Management
  ∞ SDS Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
  ∞ SDS Top Baker Sdn. Bhd.

  ∞ Daily Bakery Sdn. Bhd.
  ∞ SDS Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
  ∞ SDS Top Baker Sdn. Bhd.

INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board acknowledges that a sound system of internal control reduces, but cannot eliminate the possibility
of poor judgement in decision-making, human error, control processes being deliberately circumvented by
employees, management overriding controls, and the occurrence of unforeseeable circumstances.

The Management receives and reviews regular reports on key financial data, performance indicators and regulatory
matters. This is to ensure that matters requiring the Board’s attention are highlighted for review, deliberation
and decision making on a timely basis. The Board will approve the appropriate responses or amendments to the
Group’s policies.

The internal control matters are reviewed and the Board is updated on significant control gaps, if any, for the Board’s
attention and action. Issues relating to the business operations are also highlighted to the Board’s attention during
Board meetings and any significant fluctuation or exception noted will be analysed and acted in a timely manner.

                                      ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 047
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT'D)

Other key elements of the Group’s internal control systems are as follows:

∞ An organisational structure in the Group with clear lines of authority, accountability and responsibility;
∞ Clearly defined terms of reference, authorities and responsibilities of the various Board committees which

     include the AC, RMC, Nominating and Remuneration Committee;
∞ Formalised internal policies and procedures are in place to support the Group in achieving its business

     objectives. These policies and procedures provide a basis for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and
     regulations, and also internal controls with respect to the conduct of business;
∞ Quarterly review of financial performance by the Board and the AC;
∞ Active participation and involvement by the Managing Director (“MD”) and Executive Directors (“ED”) in the
     day-to-day running of the major businesses and regular discussions with the Management of business units
     on operational issues;
∞ Review of internal audit reports and findings by the AC; and
∞ Monthly management meetings are conducted to review operational and financial performance.

The Group will continue to foster a risk-awareness culture in all decision making and manage all risks in a proactive
and effective manner. This is to enable the Group to respond effectively to the changing business and competitive
environment.

ASSURANCE

The Board regularly receives and reviews the report on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control, and is
of the view that it is adequate to safeguard the shareholders’ interest and the Group’s assets. The role of the Management is to
implement the Board’s policies and guidelines on risks and controls, to identify and evaluate the risks faced and to operate a
suitable system of internal controls to manage these risks.

The Board has obtained assurances from the MD and Chief Financial Officer that the Group’s system of Risk Management and
Internal Control is operating adequately and effectively for the financial year under review and up to date as of this Statement.

REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS

As required by Rule 15.23 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the External
Auditors have reviewed this Statement pursuant to the scope set out in Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3:
Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control included
in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.

AAPG 3 does not require the External Auditors to consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form
an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control system.

Based on their procedures performed, the External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their
attention that cause them to believe that this Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the
disclosure required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for
Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, nor is factually inaccurate.

CONCLUSION

For the financial year under review, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of internal control and risk management
is adequate to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. However, the Board is also cognisant of the
fact that the Group’s system of internal control and risk management practices must continuously evolve to meet the
changing and challenging business environment. Therefore, the Board will, when necessary, put in place appropriate
action plans to further enhance the Group’s system of internal control and risk management framework.

This Statement was approved by the Board on 22 July 2022.

 048 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                             SDS GROUP BERHAD

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

1. MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS

             The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises of three (3) members of which all are Independent Non-Executive
             Directors, in compliance with Rule 15.09 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”)
             of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).

             The members of the AC and details of their attendance at the AC Meetings during the financial year ended
             (“FYE”) 31 March 2022 are as follows:

Name                         Designation                                      Number of
                                                                              Meeting(s)
Ms Phang Sze Fui ^           Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director  Attended
Dr Lim Pang Kiam ^           Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn  Member, Independent Non-Executive Director       4/5

                                                                              5/5

                                                                              5/5

             ^ Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants

             The AC met five (5) times during the FYE 2022. Other Executive Board members and the Management
             attended the AC meetings by invitation of the AC Chairperson. The representatives of internal and external
             auditors were also present during deliberations on the subjects which required their input and advice as
             and when required.

2. TERMS OF REFERENCE

             The Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC are aligned with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and
             recommendations of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance. The TOR will be revised accordingly,
             to cater for changes, if any. The TOR is available at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.

3. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

During the FYE 2022, the AC carried out the following activities and had discharged its duties and
responsibilities to the best of their abilities in accordance with its’ TOR:

1. Financial Reporting

      a) The AC had reviewed and ensured that the four (4) quarterly financial results of the Group
            complied with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MRFS”) and Appendix 9B of the
            Listing Requirement of Bursa Securities.

      b) The AC had reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respect of the annual Audited
            Financial Statements of the Company and the Group for the FYE 31 March 2021 to ensure
            that it presented a true and fair view of the Group’s and the Company’s financial position and
            performance for the year and complied with all the regulatory requirements.

                             ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 049
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

3. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES (CONT'D)

1. Financial Reporting (Cont'd)
      The summary of the AC meetings held during the FYE 2022 was as follows:

Date of Meeting           Subject
25 June 2021              Review of Fourth Quarter Results ended 31 March 2021
23 July 2021              Review of Audited Financial Statements for FYE 31 March 2021
27 August 2021            Review of First Quarter Results ended 30 June 2021
29 November 2021          Review of Second Quarter Results ended 30 September 2021
25 February 2022          Review of Third Quarter Results ended 31 December 2021

2. Related Party Transactions

      The AC had reviewed on a quarterly basis the report of Recurrent Related Party Transactions (“RRPTs”)
      of the Group presented by the Management and ensured that these transactions are undertaken in
      the best interest of the Company, fair, reasonable, and on normal commercial terms as well as not
      detrimental to the interest of the minority shareholders.

3. Annual Reporting

      The AC had reviewed the AC Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and a
      Circular on the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for RRPTs to ensure adherence to legal
      and regulatory reporting requirements and recommended them to the Board for approval.

4. External Audit

      a) The AC had reviewed and discussed the Audit Review Memorandum for the FYE 31 March 2021
            with Crowe Malaysia PLT (“Crowe”) at the meeting held on 25 June 2021.

      b) The AC evaluated the performance of the External Auditors covering areas such as caliber, quality
            processes, audit team, independence, audit scope and audit communication as well as the audit fees.
            Based on the evaluation, the AC had recommended to the Board for approval, the re-appointment
            of the External Auditors for the FYE 2022 at its meeting held on 25 June 2021.

      c) On 25 February 2022, the AC had reviewed the Audit Planning Memorandum for the FYE 2022
            presented by Crowe.

5. Internal Audit

      a) The AC had reviewed the findings and results of the Internal Audit Reports together with the
            recommendations from Sterling Business Alignment Consulting Sdn. Bhd. (“Sterling”). The AC
            considered Sterling’s recommendations and considered the Management’s responses and made
            appropriate advice to the Management on issues which require adoption and improvement.

      b) At the meeting held on 27 May 2022, the AC had undertaken an assessment of the performance
            of Sterling and was satisfied with the competency, experience and resources of Sterling and the
            Internal Audit Function for discharging its role and responsibilities.

050 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                 SDS GROUP BERHAD

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

4. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

             The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to Sterling (“Internal Auditor”). They assist the AC and
             the Board in providing independent assessment on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the
             Group’s internal control system. The internal audit processes were mainly:

             - To review the adequacy and test the integrity of internal controls;
             - To assess the compliance with policies and procedures and recommended best practices; and
             - To review and identify any potential areas of weaknesses for improvement in the effectiveness and

                   efficiency of the processes (if any).

             The Internal Auditor is guided by the Professional Practices Framework by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
             Observations and findings from the audit reviews, including the recommended corrective actions were
             discussed with the Management. The internal audit report together with the Management’s response
             and proposed corrective action plans were then presented to the AC for their review during the quarterly
             meetings. Follow-up review was also conducted and monitored to ensure corrective actions have been
             implemented by the Management.

             The fees incurred for the outsourcing of the internal audit function for the FYE 2022 was RM32,000.

                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 051
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s External Auditors by the Group and
the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 are as follows:

Audit services rendered                                          Group              Company
Non-audit services rendered                                    RM’000                  RM’000
Total                                                                                           20
                                                                       158
                                                                                                  3
                                                                          5                     23
                                                                       163

MATERIAL CONTRACTS

There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and major shareholders’ interest
which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year or which were entered into since the end of the
previous financial period.

MATERIAL CONTRACTS RELATING TO LOANS

There were no material contracts relating to loans entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving
Directors’, chief executive’s and/or major shareholders’ interests.

UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS

The Company carried out its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) exercise in 2019 and was listed on the ACE Market of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 7 October 2019. Pursuant to the said listing, the Company had successfully
raised gross proceeds of RM23.99 million from the issuance of 104,296,800 new ordinary shares in the Company at
an issue price of RM0.23 per share. As at 31 March 2022, the Company has fully utilised the IPO gross proceeds of
RM23.99 million, details of which are as described in the following table:

                               Proposed  Actual Unutilised               Original             Revised
                                                               Timeframe for        Timeframe for
                               Utilisation Utilisation Amount
                                                                     Utilisation          Utilisation
Details of Utilisation         RM’000 RM’000 RM’000            (from the date       (from the date

                                                                       of listing)          of listing)

1. Capital expenditure         6,000     6,000   - Within 24 months Within 48 months

2. Repayment of bank           7,000     7,000   - Within 6 months                  No change
      borrowings

3. General working capital     7,788     7,788   - Within 12 months                 No change

4. Estimated listing expenses  3,200     3,200   -             Immediately          No change

Total                          23,988    23,988  -

Note: The utilisation of proceeds disclosed above should be read in conjunction with the Prospectus of the Company
dated 23 August 2019 and the announcement dated 30 September 2021.

052 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (“RRPT”)

The breakdown of the aggregate value of the RRPT made during the financial year ended 31 March 2022 is as follows:

                       Transacting Related Parties      Relationship of Related       Aggregate value
                                                        Parties with SDS Group          of RRPT for 31
      Nature of RRPTs  Provider        Recipient                                          March 2022
1. Rental expense of                                         Berhad (“SDSG”)                (RM’000)
                                                                                                 48
      premises         KS Tan          SDS Food         Tan Kim Seng is Director and              6
2. Rental income of    Properties      Manufacturing    Substantial Shareholder of
                       Sdn. Bhd.       Sdn. Bhd.        SDSG and KS Tan Properties               433
      premises                                          Sdn. Bhd. respectively.
                       SDS Bakery &    KS Tan                                                     18
3. Rental expense of   Cafeteria Sdn.  Properties       Tan Kee Jin is a Director of
      premises         Bhd.            Sdn. Bhd.        SDSG and the son of Tan
                                                        Kim Seng.
4. Rental expense of
      premises         SDS Tan         ∞ SDS Top Baker  Tan Kim Seng and Tan Kim
                       Properties           Sdn. Bhd.   Chai are Directors and
                       Sdn. Bhd.                        Substantial Shareholders of
                                       ∞ SDS Bakery &   SDSG and SDS Tan
                                            Cafeteria   Properties Sdn. Bhd.
                                            Sdn. Bhd.   respectively.

                                       ∞ Daily Bakery   Tan Kee Jin is a Director of
                                            Sdn. Bhd.   SDSG and the son of Tan
                                                        Kim Seng.

                       Ng Chau         SDS Top Baker    Ng Chau Meng is the
                       Meng            Sdn. Bhd.        spouse of Tan Kim Chai who
                                                        is Director and Substantial
                                                        Shareholder of SDSG.

                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 053
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
FOR THE AUDITED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

(Pursuant to Rule 15.26(a) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements)

The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 ("the Act") to prepare the financial statements for each
financial year which have been made out in accordance with applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the Group
and of the Company for the financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:
(i)		 Adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
(ii)		 Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
(iii)		 Prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the Group and the Company keep accounting records which disclose
the financial position of the Group and of the Company with reasonable accuracy at any time, thus enabling the
financial statements to be complied with the requirements of the Act and have been made out in accordance with
applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and of the Company and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

054 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
FINANCIAL
STAT E M E N T S

056 Directors’ Report
061 Statement by Directors
061 Statutory Declaration
062 Independent Auditors’ Report
066 Statements of Financial Position
068 Statements of Profit or Loss and

          Other Comprehensive Income

069 Statements of Changes in Equity
071 Statements of Cash Flows
073 Notes to the Financial Statements
DIRECTORS'
REPORT

The directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 31 March 2022.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding. The principal activities of the
subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.

RESULTS                                                                                 The            The
                                                                                    Group      Company
Profit after tax for the financial year                                             RM'000
Attributable to:-                                                                                 RM'000
Owners of the Company                                                               10,603
Non-controlling interests                                                                            3,532
                                                                                    10,618
                                                                                         (15)        3,532
                                                                                                           -
                                                                                    10,603
                                                                                                     3,532

DIVIDENDS                                                                                      RM'000
Dividends paid or declared by the Company since 31 March 2021 are as follows:-                   1,015

In respect of the financial year 31 March 2022
A first interim dividend of 0.25 sen per ordinary share, paid on 30 September 2021

On 27 May 2022, the Company declared second interim dividend of 0.50 sen per ordinary share amounting
to RM2,029,120 in respect of the current financial year, paid on 30 June 2022, to shareholders whose names
appeared in the record of depositors on 13 June 2022. The financial statements for the current financial year
do not reflect this interim dividend. Such dividend will be accounted for in equity as an appropriation of retained
profits in the financial year ending 31 March 2023.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those
disclosed in the financial statements.

056 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
            SDS GROUP BERHAD

DIRECTORS'
REPORT

ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES

During the financial year:-

(a) there were no changes in the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company; and

(b) there were no issues of debentures by the Company.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

During the financial year, no options were granted by the Company to any person to take up any unissued
shares in the Company.

BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
allowance for impairment losses on receivables and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been
written off and that adequate allowance had been made for impairment losses on receivables.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that would require the further writing
off of bad debts, or the making of additional allowance for impairment losses on receivables in the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company.

CURRENT ASSETS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable
steps to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business,
including their value as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company, have been written
down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values
attributed to the current assets in the financial statements misleading.

VALUATION METHODS

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render
adherence to the existing methods of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company
misleading or inappropriate.

            ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 057
DIRECTORS'
REPORT

CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES

At the date of this report, there does not exist:-

(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
          year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
          year.

No contingent or other liability of the Group and of the Company has become enforceable or is likely to become
enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the
directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations
when they fall due.

CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report
or the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the
financial statements misleading.

ITEMS OF AN UNUSUAL NATURE

The results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not, in the opinion
of the directors, substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the directors, to affect substantially
the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

DIRECTORS

The names of directors of the Company who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report
are as follows:-

Tan Kim Chai
Tan Kim Seng
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Phang Sze Fui
Tan Kee Jin
Tan Yon Haw

The names of directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date
of this report, not including those directors mentioned above, are as follows:-

Lee Mok Koon
Tan Yong Thye
Teou Chau Hoyk

 058 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                          SDS GROUP BERHAD

DIRECTORS'
REPORT

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of directors’ shareholdings, the interests of directors holding office at the end of the
financial year in shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year are as follows:-

                                <------------------ Number of Ordinary Shares ------------------>

   The Company                          At   Bought                       Sold                  At
                                1.4.2021                                              31.3.2022
   Direct Interests
                                98,885,580                             -  - 98,885,580
   Tan Kim Chai                 99,040,780
   Tan Kim Seng                                                        -  - 99,040,780
   Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn      270,000
   Tan Kee Jin                   1,131,800                             -  (200,000)   70,000
   Tan Yon Haw                  19,116,970
                                                                       -  - 1,131,800

                                                                       -  - 19,116,970

   Indirect Interests

   Tan Kim Chai ^               3,801,620                              - (1,510,000)  2,291,620
   Tan Kim Seng #               4,051,620                              - (1,510,000)  2,541,620

^  Deemed interested by virtue of his direct substantial shareholding in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd.

#  Deemed interested by virtue of his direct substantial shareholding in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd.

   and interest through his son’s direct shareholding in the Company.

By virtue of their substantial shareholding in the Company, Tan Kim Chai and Tan Kim Seng are deemed to
have interests in shares in its related corporations during the financial year to the extent of the Company’s
interests, in accordance with Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit
(other than disclosed in the “Directors’ Remuneration” of this report) by reason of a contract made by the
Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a
company in which the director has a substantial financial interest except for any benefits which may be deemed
to arise from transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain
directors have substantial financial interests as disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements.

Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Group or the Company a party to any arrangements
whose object is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures
of the Company or any other body corporate.

                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 059
DIRECTORS'
REPORT

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The details of the directors’ remuneration paid or payable to the directors of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year are as follows:-

                                                                                       The              The
                                                                                   Group        Company
                                                                                   RM'000
                                                                                                   RM'000

Fees                                                                               154                   154
Salaries, bonuses and other benefits
Defined contribution benefits                                                      1,797                 14

                                                                                   203                   -

                                                                                   2,154                 168

INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COST

During the financial year, there was no indemnity given to or professional indemnity insurance effected for
directors, officers or auditors of the Group and of the Company.

SUBSIDIARIES

The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

AUDITORS

The auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

The details of the auditors’ remuneration for the financial year are as follows:-

                                                                                       The              The
                                                                                   Group        Company
                                                                                   RM'000
                                                                                                   RM'000

Audit fees                                                                         198                   20
Non-audit fees
                                                                                           5             3

                                                                                   203                   23

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 22 July 2022.

      Tan Kim Chai                                                                         Tan Kim Seng

060 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                             SDS GROUP BERHAD

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS AND
STATUTORY DECLARATION

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
We, Tan Kim Chai and Tan Kim Seng, being two of the directors of SDS Group Berhad, state that, in the opinion
of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 6162 ttoo17381 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company
as of 31 March 2022 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 22 July 2022.

Tan Kim Chai                     Tan Kim Seng

STATUTORY DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, Tan Kee Meng, MIA Membership Number: 42904, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial
management of SDS Group Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out
on pages 6162 ttoo17381 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovementioned
Tan Kee Meng
at Johor Bahru
in the State of Johor
on this 22 July 2022.

Before me                                   Tan Kee Meng

Nur Amreeta Kaur Gubachen Singh  ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 061
Commissioner for Oaths
No. J276
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS
OF SDS GROUP BERHAD

(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of SDS Group Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 March 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of
the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 6162 too 17381..
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 March 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

062 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS

OF SDS GROUP BERHAD

(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)

Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

Revenue Recognition
Refer to Notes 4.18 and 23 to the financial statements

Key Audit Matter                                 How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Total revenue of the Group for the financial Our procedures included, amongst others:-

year ended 31 March 2022 amounted to

RM198.28 million, which represents the most ·· Tested the business process controls over the timing

significant amount in the financial statements.  for the recognition of revenue and the amount of

                                                 revenue recognised;

We identified this area as our key audit matter ·· Tested sales transactions recorded to the relevant

due to the voluminous transactions, whereby      documents which evidenced the delivery of goods to

there is a risk that revenue may be over or      customers as an indication of transfer of control on

understated intentionally or unintentionally.    goods to ascertain validity of sales; and

                                                 ·· Tested the recording of sales transactions close to

                                                 the financial year end, including test of revenue cut-

                                                 off and review of credit notes issued after the financial

                                                 year ended, to establish whether the transactions were

                                                 recorded in the correct reporting period.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

                                                                      ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 063
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS

OF SDS GROUP BERHAD

(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements (Cont'd)

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate
the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:-

·· Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the

     Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
     and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
     not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
     fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
     control.

·· Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that

     are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
     of the Group’s and the Company’s internal control.

·· Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates

     and related disclosures made by the directors.

·· Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based

     on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
     may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
     conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
     related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
     inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
     date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to
     cease to continue as a going concern.

·· Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of

     the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
     Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
·

064 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS
OF SDS GROUP BERHAD

(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont'd)

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Stan-
dards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the
audit. We also (Cont'd):-

·· Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or

      business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
      We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
      responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats
or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and
are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that
a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiary of
which we have not acted as auditors, is disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.

Crowe Malaysia PLT                                         Tan Lin Chun
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA) & AF 1018                 02839/10/2023 J
Chartered Accountants                            Chartered Accountant

Johor Bahru                              ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 065
22 July 2022
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 MARCH 2022

                                       The Group                                    The Company

                                       2022                                2021     2022         2021

                                 Note  RM'000                              RM'000   RM'000  RM'000

ASSETS                           5                                      -  -        32,877  30,572

NON-CURRENT ASSETS               6     85,501                              82,927   -            -
Investments in subsidiaries
Property, plant and equipment    7     14,634                              18,842   -            -
Right-of-use assets
Amount owing by subsidiaries     8                                      -  -        7,300   10,050
Goodwill
Deferred tax assets              9     162                                 162      -            -

CURRENT ASSETS                   10    873                                 1,447    -            -
Inventories
Trade receivables                      101,170                             103,378  40,177  40,622
Other receivables, deposits and
                                 11    6,642                               5,706    -            -
 prepayments
Amount owing by subsidiaries     12    9,459                               7,681    -            -
Current tax assets
Cash and bank balances           13    4,983                               4,274    89           15

TOTAL ASSETS                     8                                      -  -        3,837   2,036

                                       718                                 795      -            -

                                       20,118                              17,185   11,546  10,318

                                       41,920                              35,641   15,472  12,369

                                       143,090                             139,019  55,649  52,991

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

066 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 MARCH 2022

                                          The Group                                 The Company

                                          2022                          2021        2022         2021

                                    Note  RM'000                        RM'000      RM'000     RM'000

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES               14   53,111                        53,111      53,111     53,111
                                     15   28,416                        18,801       2,248        (269)
EQUITY
Share capital                        16   81,527                        71,912      55,359     52,842
Reserves                             17       344                           359             -          -
                                     18
Equity attributable to owners of     19   81,871                        72,271      55,359     52,842
 the Company
                                          7,764                         9,633       -            -
Non-controlling interests
                                          12,813                        22,727      -            -
TOTAL EQUITY
                                          3,772                         2,671       -            -
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Lease liabilities                         205                           197         -            -
Term loans
Deferred tax liabilities
Contract liabilities

                                          24,554                        35,228      -            -

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Trade payables                      20     20,538                        14,892             -          -
                                             7,559                         5,531        286        109
Other payables and accruals         21             -                             -
                                             5,557                         7,808            -         *
Amount owing to a subsidiary        22       2,545                         2,900            -          -
                                               398                           278            -          -
Lease liabilities                   16           68                          111            -          -
                                                                                           4        40
Term loans                          17     36,665                        31,520
                                                                                        290        149
Contract liabilities                19     61,219                        66,748
                                                                                        290        149
Current tax liabilities                   143,090                       139,019
                                                                                    55,649     52,991
TOTAL LIABILITIES
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

*  Denotes amount less than RM500.

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 067
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022

                                         The Group                                 The Company

                                         2022                           2021       2022         2021

                                   Note  RM'000                         RM'000     RM'000   RM'000

Revenue                            23    198,283                        173,778    3,580        1,536
Cost of sales                                                                            -            -
                                         (136,687)                      (120,790)

Gross profit                               61,596                         52,988   3,580        1,536
Other income                                   711                         1,161     557          589
Administrative expenses
Selling and distribution expenses        (12,731)                       (12,040)   (363)        (326)
Other operating expenses                 (33,731)                       (30,259)         -            -
Finance costs
                                             (286)                          (210)  (136)        (131)
                                          (1,456)                        (2,051)         -            -

Profit before tax                  24    14,103                         9,589      3,638        1,668
Income tax expense                                                                 (106)        (121)
                                   25    (3,500)                        (2,511)

Profit after tax                         10,603                         7,078      3,532        1,547

Other comprehensive income                    12                            43           -            -
Item that will be reclassified           10,615                         7,121
                                                                                   3,532        1,547
 subsequently to profit or loss          10,618                         7,271
 Foreign currency translation               (15)                        (193)      3,532        1,547
                                                                                         -            -
   differences
                                                                                   3,532        1,547
Total comprehensive income
 for the financial year

PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAX
 ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-
 Owners of the Company
 Non-controlling interests

                                         10,603                         7,078

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE                      10,630                         7,314      3,532        1,547
 INCOME/(EXPENSES)                          (15)                        (193)            -            -
 ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-
 Owners of the Company                                                             3,532        1,547

 Non-controlling interests

                                         10,615                         7,121
                                                                         1.79
EARNINGS PER SHARE (SEN)

Basic / Diluted                    26    2.62

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

068 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SDS GROUP BERHAD<-- Non-Distributable --> Distributable

                                                                            STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITYForeign  Attributable
                                                                        FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED                 to Owners
                                                                     31 MARCH 2022Exchange                                              Non-
                                                                                                                          of the  controlling
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 069                                 Share             Merger Translation  Retained               Company                     Total
                                                        Capital             Deficit Reserve       Profits                          Interests    Equity
                                                                                                                        RM'000                 RM'000
The Group                                           Note RM'000 RM'000 RM'000                   RM'000                               RM'000

Balance at 1.4.2020                                     53,111 (27,760)       461              38,786               64,598        552 65,150
                                                                                                7,271                7,271
Profit/(Loss) after tax for the financial year                          -  -  -                                                   (193)        7,078
                                                                                                      -                  43
Other comprehensive income for the financial year:                      -  -  43                                                  -            43
- Foreign currency translation differences                                                      7,271                7,314
                                                                        -  -  43               46,057               71,912        (193)         7,121
Total comprehensive income/(expenses)                                                                                              359         72,271
 for the financial year                                 53,111 (27,760)       504

Balance at 31.3.2021/1.4.2021

Profit/(Loss) after tax for the financial year                          -  -  -                10,618               10,618        (15) 10,603

Other comprehensive income for the financial year:                      -  -  12               -                    12            -            12
- Foreign currency translation differences

Total comprehensive income/(expenses)                                   -  -  12               10,618               10,630        (15) 10,615
 for the financial year

Distribution to owners of the Company:              27                  -  -  -                (1,015)              (1,015)       - (1,015)
- Dividend
                                                        53,111 (27,760)       516              55,660               81,527        344 81,871
Balance at 31.3.2022

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

                                                                                                            (A(Accccuummuulalatetedd

                                                                                                            LLoosssseess)/)/

                                                                                           SShhaarere       RReetatainineedd             TTootatal l
                                                                                                                                       EEqquuitiyty
                                                                                           CCaappitiatal l  PProrofiftists            RRMM'0'00000

TThheeCCoommppaannyy                                                             NNootete  RRMM'0'00000     RRMM'0'00000

BBaalalanncceeaat t11.4.4.2.2002200                                                        5533,1,11111     (1(1,8,81166)) 5511,2,29955

PProrofiftitaaftfeterrtataxx/T/Tootatal lccoommpprerehheennssivieveininccoommee                    --       11,5,54477                 11,5,54477
 foforrththeefifninaanncciaial lyyeeaarr                                                   5533,1,11111      (2(26699) )              5522,8,84422

BBaalalanncceeaat t3311.3.3.2.2002211/1/1.4.4.2.2002211                                    --               33,5,53322                33,5,53322

PProrofiftitaaftfeterrtataxx/T/Tootatal lccoommpprerehheennssivieveininccoommee  2277      --               (1(1,0,01155) )           (1(1,0,01155) )
 foforrththeefifninaanncciaial lyyeeaarr                                                                    22,2,24488                5555,3,35599
                                                                                           5533,1,11111
DDisistrtirbibuutitoionnsstotooowwnneersrsoof fththeeCCoommppaannyy: :
- -DDiviivdideenndd
BBaalalanncceeaat t3311.3.3.2.2002222

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

070 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

                                                                        The Group             The Company

                                                                        2022       2021       2022      2021

                                                        Note            RM'000 RM'000         RM'000 RM'000

CASH FLOWS FROM/(FOR) OPERATING ACTIVITIES                              14,103     9,589      3,638     1,668

Profit before tax                                                            50         14           -         -
                                                                         8,226      8,053            -         -
Adjustments for:-                                                        6,541      7,519            -         -
Bad debts written off                                                                                -         -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                  7        34           -         -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                                         654        975           -         -
Impairment losses on trade receivables                                      802     1,076            -         -
Interest expense on lease liabilities                                                                -         -
Other interest expense                                                          -       45           -         -
Inventories written down                                                     87         20    (3,580)   (1,536)
Property, plant and equipment written off                                                            -         -
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange                                            6          3          -         -
Dividend income                                                                 -          -    (536)     (589)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment                          (105)      (430)
Gain on lease termination                                                  (128)      (140)     (478)     (457)
Interest income                                                            (209)      (175)          -         -

Operating profit/(loss) before working capital changes                  30,034     26,583         (74)     203
Increase in inventories                                                    (936)      (421)      177         32
(Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables                                                          (32)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other payables                         (2,229)     2,120            *         -
Decrease in amount owing to subsidiaries                                 7,279     (2,554)           -
Increase in contract liabilities                                                                          (254)
                                                                                -          -    (375)     (104)
CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATIONS                                                  128        371      (142)
Income tax paid                                                                                           (358)
                                                                        34,276     26,099       (517)
NET CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATING ACTIVITIES                                (1,791)    (1,722)

                                                                        32,485     24,377

*  Denotes amount less than RM500.

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                                                   ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 071
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

                                                                        The Group               The Company

                                                                        2022        2021        2022      2021

                                                     Note               RM'000 RM'000           RM'000 RM'000

CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Deposit paid for future purchase of property, plant  5(b)                 (654)         (614)          -        -
 and equipment                                       28(a)                     -             -  1,269     1,536

Dividend received                                                          209           175       546      824
Interest received
Subscription of additional shares in an existing                               -             -  (2,305)         -
                                                                               -             -  3,250     2,222
 subsidiary
Net repayment from subsidiaries                                            223           571          -         -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and                                11           34          -         -

 equipment:                                                             (8,610)      (3,581)          -         -
 - current financial year                                                 (165)         (623)         -         -
 - previous financial year
Purchase of property, plant and equipment:                              (8,986)      (4,038)    2,760     4,582
 - current financial year
 - previous financial year                                                                   -
                                                                                      1,654
NET CASH (FOR)/FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
                                                                                          75
CASH FLOWS FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES                  28(b)               (1,015)     (2,051)    (1,015)         -
                                                     28(b)                       -   (1,654)           -        -
Dividend paid                                                                    -   (7,387)           -        -
Drawdown of bankers' acceptance                      28(b)                           (3,815)           -        -
Drawdown of term loans                               28(b)               (1,456)    (13,178)           -        -
Interest paid                                        28(b)                       -                     -        -
Repayment of bankers' acceptance                                                      7,161            -        -
Repayment of lease liabilities                                           (7,832)          42
Repayment of term loans                                                 (10,269)                (1,015)         -
                                                                                      9,982
NET CASH FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES                                       (20,572)                1,228     4,224
                                                                                    17,185
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND BANK BALANCES                                   2,927                         -        -
                                                                               6
EFFECT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSLATION                                                          10,318     6,094
                                                                        17,185                  11,546    10,318
CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT BEGINNING                                     20,118
  OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR

CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT END
  OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

072 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

1. GENERAL INFORMATION

    The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. The
    registered office and principal place of business are as follows:-

    Registered office     :        5-9A, The Boulevard Offices

                                   Mid Valley City

                                   Lingkaran Syed Putra

                                   59200 Kuala Lumpur

    Principal place of business :  5, Jalan Selatan 8
                                   Off Jalan Kempas Lama
                                   Kawasan Perusahaan Ringan Pulai
                                   81200 Johor Bahru
                                   Johor

    The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a
    resolution of the directors dated 22 July 2022.

2.  PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

    The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding. The principal activities of
    the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

          The financial statements of the Group are prepared under the historical cost convention and modified
          to include other bases of valuation as disclosed in other sections under significant accounting policies,
          and in compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial
          Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

          3.1 During the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following new applicable
                     accounting standards (including the consequential amendments, if any):-

                       MFRSs (Including The Consequential Amendments)
                       Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16: Interest Rate
                        Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
                      		
                     The adoption of the above applicable accounting standards (including the consequential
                     amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.

                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 073
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3.  BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)

    3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following applicable accounting standards (including
              the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting
              Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:-

    MFRSs (Including The Consequential Amendments)                      Effective Date
    Amendments to MFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework         1 January 2022

    Amendment to MFRS 101: Classification of Liabilities as Current or  1 January 2023
     Non-current                                                        1 January 2023
                                                                        1 January 2023
    Amendments to MFRS 101: Disclosure of Accounting Policies
                                                                        1 January 2023
    Amendments to MFRS 108: Definition of Accounting Estimates
                                                                        1 January 2022
    Amendments to MFRS 112: Deferred Tax related to Assets and          1 January 2022
     Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

    Amendments to MFRS 116: Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds
     before Intended Use

    Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 – 2020

    The adoption of the above applicable accounting standards (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) is expected to have no material impact on the financial statements of the
    Group upon their initial application.

4.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

    Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty

    Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and
    other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of
    causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
    financial year other than as disclosed below:-

    (a) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment and Right-of-use Assets

    The estimates for the residual values, useful lives and related depreciation charges for
    the property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets are based on commercial
    factors which could change significantly as a result of technical innovations and
    competitors’ actions in response to the market conditions. The Group anticipates that
    the residual values of its property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets will be
    insignificant. As a result, residual values are not being taken into consideration for the
    computation of the depreciable amount. Changes in the expected level of usage and
    technological development could impact the economic useful lives and the residual
    values of these assets, therefore future depreciation charges could be revised.

074 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

           4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

                      Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (Cont’d)

                      (b) Income Taxes

                                 There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax
                                 determination may be different from the initial estimate. The Group recognises tax
                                 liabilities based on its understanding of the prevailing tax laws and estimates of
                                 whether such taxes will be due in the ordinary course of business. Where the final
                                 outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised,
                                 such difference will impact the income tax expense and deferred tax balances in the
                                 year in which such determination is made.

                      (c) Discount Rates used in Leases

                                 Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group
                                 uses the incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental
                                 borrowing rate is the interest rate that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a
                                 similar term, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-
                                 use asset in a similar economic environment. Therefore, the incremental borrowing
                                 rate requires estimation particularly when no observable rates are available or when
                                 they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the lease. The Group
                                 estimates the incremental borrowing rate using observable inputs when available and
                                 is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.

                      (d) Deferred Tax Assets

                                 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unabsorbed capital allowances and
                                 reinvestment allowance to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
                                 would be available against which the unabsorbed capital allowances and reinvestment
                                 allowance could be utilised. Management judgement is required to determine the
                                 amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on the assessment of
                                 the probability of the future taxable profits.

                      Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies

                      Management believes that there are no instances of application of critical judgement in
                      applying the Group’s accounting policies which will have a significant effect on the amounts
                      recognised in the financial statements other than as disclosed below:-

                      Lease Terms

                      Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Group before the end of the
                      non-cancellable contract period. In determining the lease term, management considers all
                      facts and circumstances including the past practice and any cost that will be incurred to
                      change the asset if an option to extend is not taken. An extension option is only included in
                      the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 075
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

                     The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its
                     subsidiaries made up to the end of the reporting period.

                     Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group
                     is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has
                     the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are
                     considered when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. The Group also
                     considers it has de facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority of voting
                     rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affect the
                     investee’s return.

                     Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group up to
                     the effective date on which control ceases, as appropriate.

                     Intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
                     Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated
                     financial statements. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of
                     subsidiaries to ensure consistency of accounting policies with those of the Group.

                     (a) Business Combinations

                                Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. Under the
                                acquisition method, the consideration transferred for acquisition of a subsidiary is the
                                fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued
                                by the Group at the acquisition date. The consideration transferred includes the fair
                                value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
                                Acquisition-related costs, other than the costs to issue debt or equity securities, are
                                recognised in profit or loss when incurred.

                                In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the
                                acquiree are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding
                                gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.

                                Non-controlling interests in the acquiree may be initially measured either at fair value
                                or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s
                                identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition. The choice of measurement basis is
                                made on a transaction-by-transaction basis.

                     (b) Merger Accounting for Common Control Business Combinations

                                A business combination involving entities under common control is a business
                                combination in which all the combining entities or subsidiaries are ultimately controlled
                                by the same party and parties both before and after the business combination, and that
                                control is not transitory.

 076 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT'D)

(b) Merger Accounting for Common Control Business Combinations (Cont’d)

Subsidiaries acquired which have met the criteria for pooling of interest are accounted
for using merger accounting principles. Under the merger method of accounting, the
results of the subsidiaries are presented as if the merger had been effected throughout
the current financial year.

The assets and liabilities combined are accounted for based on the carrying amounts
from the perspective of the common control shareholder at the date of transfer. No
amount is recognised in respect of goodwill and excess of the acquirer’s interest in
the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent
liabilities over cost at the time of the common control business combination to the
extent of the continuation of the controlling party and parties’ interests.

When the merger method is used, the cost of investment in the Company’s books is
recorded at the nominal value of shares issued. The difference between the carrying
value of the investment and the nominal value of the shares of the subsidiaries
is treated as a merger deficit or merger reserve as applicable. The results of the
subsidiaries being merged are included for the full financial year.

(c) Non-controlling Interests

Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated statement of
financial position, separately from the equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to
the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive
income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling
interests having a deficit balance.

(d) Changes in Ownership Interests in Subsidiaries Without Change of Control

All changes in the parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a
loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Any difference between the
amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the
consideration paid or received is recognised directly in the equity of the Group.

(e) Loss of Control

Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group recognises any gain or loss on
disposal in profit or loss which is calculated as the difference between:-

(i)  the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value

     of any retained interest in the former subsidiary; and

(ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities
          of the former subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.

                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 077
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT'D)

                     (e) Loss of Control (Cont'd)

                                Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the former
                                subsidiary are accounted for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant
                                assets or liabilities were disposed of (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred
                                directly to retained profits). The fair value of any investments retained in the former
                                subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value of the initial
                                recognition for subsequent accounting under MFRS 9 or, when applicable, the cost on
                                initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.

          4.3 GOODWILL

                     Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The carrying value
                     of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in
                     circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. The impairment value of
                     goodwill is recognised immediately in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill
                     is not reversed in a subsequent period.

                     Under the acquisition method, any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration
                     transferred in the business combination, the amount of non-controlling interests recognised
                     and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over
                     the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition is
                     recorded as goodwill.

                     Where the latter amount exceeds the former, after reassessment, the excess represents a
                     bargain purchase gain and is recognised in profit or loss immediately.

          4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES

                     (a) Functional and Presentation Currency

                                The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the
                                currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates, which is
                                the functional currency.

                                The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which
                                is the Group’s functional and presentation currency and has been rounded to the
                                nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.

078 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

           4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES (CONT'D)

                      (b) Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances

                                Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the respective functional
                                currencies on initial recognition, using the exchange rates at the transaction dates.
                                Monetary assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period are translated at
                                the exchange rates ruling as of that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are
                                translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were determined. All
                                exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.

                      (c) Foreign Operations

                                Assets and liabilities of foreign operations (including any goodwill and fair value
                                adjustments arising on acquisition) are translated to the Group’s presentation currency
                                at the exchange rates at the end of the reporting period. Income, expenses and other
                                comprehensive income of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates at the
                                dates of the transactions. All exchange differences arising from translation are taken
                                directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity; attributed to the
                                owners of the Company and non-controlling interests, as appropriate.

                                Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of foreign operations
                                are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and are recorded in the
                                functional currency of the foreign operations and translated at the closing rate at the
                                end of the reporting period.

           4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                      Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position
                      when the Group has become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.

                      Financial instruments are classified as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity instruments
                      in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and their definitions in
                      MFRS 132. Interest, dividends, gains and losses relating to a financial instrument classified as
                      liability are reported as an expense or income. Distributions to holders of financial instruments
                      classified as equity are charged directly to equity.

                      Financial instruments are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and
                      intends to settle either on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

                      A financial instrument is recognised initially at its fair value (other than trade receivables
                      without significant financing component which are measured at transaction price as defined
                      in MFRS 15 at inception). Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
                      or issue of the financial instrument (other than a financial instrument at fair value through
                      profit or loss) are added to/deducted from the fair value on initial recognition, as appropriate.
                      Transaction costs on the financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss are recognised
                      immediately in profit or loss.

                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 079
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT'D)

Financial instruments recognised in the statements of financial position are disclosed in the
individual policy statement associated with each item.

(a) Financial Assets

All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either
amortised cost or fair value (through profit or loss, or other comprehensive income),
depending on the classification of the financial assets.

Debt Instruments

(i)                       Amortised Cost

                          The financial asset is held for collection of contractual cash flows where those
                          cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Interest income
                          is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying
                          amount of the financial asset. When the asset has subsequently become
                          credit-impaired, the interest income is recognised by applying the effective
                          interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset.

                          The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a
                          financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The
                          effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts
                          (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the
                          effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts),
                          excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the financial
                          asset or a shorter period (where appropriate).

(ii) Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income

                          The financial asset is held for both collecting contractual cash flows and selling
                          the financial asset, where the asset’s cash flows represent solely payments of
                          principal and interest. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through
                          other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve,
                          except for the recognition of impairment, interest income and foreign exchange
                          difference which are recognised directly in profit or loss. Interest income is
                          calculated using the effective interest rate method.

(iii) Fair Value through Profit or Loss

                          All other financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair
                          value through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value through
                          profit or loss. The fair value changes do not include interest or dividend income.

080 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT'D)

(a) Financial Assets (Cont'd)

Debt Instruments (Cont'd)

The Group reclassifies debt instruments when and only when its business model for
managing those assets change.

Equity Instruments

All equity investments are subsequently measured at fair value with gains and losses
recognised in profit or loss except where the Group has elected to present the
subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
the fair value reserve at initial recognition.

The designation at fair value through other comprehensive income is not permitted
if the equity investment is either held for trading or is designated to eliminate or
significantly reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise
arise.

Dividend income from this category of financial assets is recognised in profit or loss
when the Group’s right to receive payment is established unless the dividends clearly
represent a recovery of part of the cost of the equity investments.

(b) Financial Liabilities

(i)  Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

     Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are
     either held for trading or are designated to eliminate or significantly reduce
     a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise. The
     changes in fair value (excluding interest expense) of these financial liabilities
     are recognised in profit or loss.

(ii) Other Financial Liabilities

     Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using
     the effective interest method.

     The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost
     of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant
     period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated
     future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that
     form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other
     premiums or discounts), through the expected life of the financial liability or a

     shorter period (where appropriate).

                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 081
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

                     (c) Equity Instruments

                                Equity instruments classified as equity are measured initially at cost and are not
                                remeasured subsequently.

                                Ordinary shares are classified as equity and recorded at the proceeds received, net of
                                directly attributable transaction costs.

                                Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as liabilities when approved for
                                appropriation.

                     (d) Derecognition

                                A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual
                                rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or when it transfers the financial
                                asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
                                entity. On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference
                                between the carrying amount of the asset and the sum of the consideration received
                                and receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on derecognition of a debt
                                instrument classified as fair value through other comprehensive income, the cumulative
                                gain or loss previously accumulated in the fair value reserve is reclassified from equity
                                to profit or loss. In contrast, there is no subsequent reclassification of the fair value
                                reserve to profit or loss following the derecognition of an equity investment.

                                A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation
                                specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a
                                financial liability, the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability
                                extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any
                                non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.

                     (e) Financial Guarantee Contracts

                                A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified
                                payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails
                                to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt
                                instrument.

                                Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as liabilities at fair value, net of
                                transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts are
                                recognised as income in profit or loss over the period of the guarantee or, when there
                                is no specific contractual period, recognised in profit or loss upon discharge of the
                                guarantee. If the debtor fails to make payment relating to a financial guarantee contract
                                when it is due and the Group, as the issuer, is required to reimburse the holder for the
                                associated loss, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the credit loss
                                determined in accordance with the expected credit loss model and the amount initially
                                recognised less cumulative amortisation.

 082 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.6 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

                     Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the
                     Company, and are reviewed for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or
                     changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. The cost
                     of the investments includes transaction costs.

                     On the disposal of the investments in subsidiaries, the difference between the net disposal
                     proceeds and the carrying amount of the investments is recognised in profit or loss.

          4.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                     All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost includes
                     expenditure that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and other costs directly
                     attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.

                     Subsequent to initial recognition, all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land,
                     are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.

                     Freehold land is stated at cost less any impairment losses.

                     Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset,
                     as appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits
                     associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
                     The carrying amount of parts that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day
                     servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

                     Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is
                     charged to profit or loss (unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset) on a
                     straight-line method to write off the depreciable amount of the assets over their estimated
                     useful lives. Depreciation of an asset does not cease when the asset becomes idle or is retired
                     from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated. The principal annual rates used for this
                     purpose are:-

Buildings                                                         2%
Motor vehicles                                        8.33% - 20%
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                  10% - 20%
                                                          7% - 20%

Capital work-in-progress included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as
these assets are not yet available for use.

The depreciation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if
appropriate, at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the amounts, method and
periods of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the expected pattern of
consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the items of the property, plant and
equipment. Any changes are accounted for as a change in estimate.

                                                                                                                   ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 083
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT'D)

                     When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they
                     are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

                     An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
                     economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising from derecognition of
                     the asset, being the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount, is
                     recognised in profit or loss.

          4.8 LEASES

                     The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at the inception of the contract.
                     The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability with respect to
                     all lease arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for low-value assets and short-term
                     leases with 12 months or less. For these leases, the Group recognises the lease payments
                     as an operating expense on a straight-line method over the term of the lease unless another
                     systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the
                     leased assets are consumed.

                     The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement
                     date. The right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities are presented as a separate
                     line item in the statements of financial position.

                     The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost includes the initial amount of the
                     corresponding lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the
                     commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred, less any incentives received.

                     The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation
                     and any impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The
                     depreciation starts from the commencement date of the lease. If the lease transfers ownership
                     of the underlying asset to the Group or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects that the Group
                     expects to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-use asset is depreciated over the
                     useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the Group depreciates the right-of-use asset to
                     the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
                     estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those
                     property, plant and equipment.

                     The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not
                     paid at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate
                     cannot be readily determined, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate.

                     The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
                     method. It is remeasured when there is a change in the future lease payments (other than lease
                     modification that is not accounted for as a separate lease) with the corresponding adjustment
                     made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset or is recognised in profit or loss if the
                     carrying amount has been reduced to zero.

 084 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

           4.9 INVENTORIES

                     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of raw materials is
                     determined on the first-in, first-out method and comprises the purchase price and incidentals
                     incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost of finished
                     goods includes cost of materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.

                     Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of
                     completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

           4.10 CONTRACT LIABILITY

                     A contract liability is stated at cost and represents the obligation of the Group to transfer goods
                     or services to a customer for which consideration has been received (or the amount is due)
                     from the customers.

           4.11 IMPAIRMENT

                     (a) Impairment of Financial Assets

                                The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in
                                debt instruments that are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other
                                comprehensive income.

                                The expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash
                                flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows
                                that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.

                                The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect
                                changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The
                                Group always recognises lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables using the
                                simplified approach. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated
                                using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experienced and
                                are adjusted for forward-looking information (including time value of money where
                                appropriate).

                                For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses
                                when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However,
                                if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial
                                recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an
                                amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.

                                The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial
                                instruments with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss
                                allowance account, except for investments in debt instruments that are measured at fair
                                value through other comprehensive income, for which the loss allowance is recognised
                                in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve, and does not
                                reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statements of financial position.

                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 085
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.11 IMPAIRMENT (CONT’D)

                     (b) Impairment of Non-financial Assets

                                The carrying values of assets, other than those to which MFRS 136 does not apply, are
                                reviewed at the end of each reporting period for impairment when an annual impairment
                                assessment is compulsory or there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
                                Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying values of the assets with their
                                recoverable amounts. When the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable
                                amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss
                                shall be recognised. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of the asset’s
                                fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use, which is measured by reference to
                                discounted future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
                                assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Where it
                                is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group
                                determines the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset
                                belongs.

                                An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Any impairment loss
                                recognised in respect of a cash-generating unit is allocated first to reduce the carrying
                                amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to reduce the
                                carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit on a pro rata basis.

                                In respect of assets other than goodwill, and when there is a change in the estimates
                                used to determine the recoverable amount, a subsequent increase in the recoverable
                                amount of an asset is treated as a reversal of the previous impairment loss and is
                                recognised to the extent of the carrying amount of the asset that would have been
                                determined (net of amortisation and depreciation) had no impairment loss been
                                recognised. The reversal is recognised in profit or loss immediately.

          4.12 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

                     (a) Short-term Benefits

                                Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and bonuses are measured on an undiscounted
                                basis and are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the associated services
                                are rendered by employees of the Group.

                     (b) Defined Contribution Plans

                                The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit or loss
                                in the period to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group
                                has no further liability in respect of the defined contribution plans.

 086 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.13 INCOME TAXES

((aa)  Current Tax

       Current tax assets and liabilities are the expected amount of income tax recoverable
       or payable to the taxation authorities.

       Current taxes are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
       substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and are recognised in profit or
       loss except to the extent that the tax relates to items recognised outside profit or loss
       (either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity).

(b)    Deferred Tax

       Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for all temporary differences other
       than those that arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability
       in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction,
       affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.

       Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to
       apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax
       rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.

       Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax
       losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
       will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses
       and unused tax credits can be utilised. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are
       reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
       probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.

Current and deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either
in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax arising from a
business combination is adjusted against goodwill or negative goodwill.

Current tax assets and liabilities or deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity (or on different tax entities but they intend to
settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis) and the same taxation authority.

(c) Sales and Service Tax (“SST”)

       Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of SST.

       The amount of SST incurred in a purchase of assets or services obtained is not
       recoverable from the taxation authority and is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition
       of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable.

                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 087
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

          4.13 INCOME TAXES (CONT'D)

                     (c) Sales and Service Tax (“SST”) (Cont'd)

                                The amount of the SST payable to the taxation authority at the end of the reporting period
                                is included in other payables.

          4.14 OPERATING SEGMENTS

                     An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from
                     which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate
                     to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating
                     results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions about
                     resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete
                     financial information is available.

          4.15 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

                     Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit or loss
                     attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of
                     ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting period, adjusted for own shares held.

                     Diluted earnings per ordinary share is determined by adjusting the consolidated profit or loss
                     attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of
                     ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

          4.16 BORROWING COSTS

                     Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of
                     a qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.

          4.17 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

                     Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
                     orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether
                     that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique. The measurement
                     assumes that the transaction takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of
                     a principal market, in the most advantageous market. For non-financial asset, the fair value
                     measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
                     by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that
                     would use the asset in its highest and best use.

                     For financial reporting purposes, the fair value measurements are analysed into level 1 to level
                     3 as follows:-

                     Level 1: Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liability
                                   that the entity can access at the measurement date;

 088 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.17 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (CONT'D)

Level 2: Inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable
             for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and

Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The transfer of fair value between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
circumstances that caused the transfer.

4.18 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS

Revenue is recognised by reference to each distinct performance obligation in the contract with
customer and is measured at the consideration specified in the contract of which the Group
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer,
net of sales and service tax, returns, rebates and discounts.

The Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to
customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset.

The Group transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless one of the following
overtime criteria is met:-

··  The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the

    Group performs.

··  The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as

    the asset is created or enhanced.

··  The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the

    Group has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.

(a) Sale of Goods with Cash Term

          Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of
          the goods to the customer, being at the point when the customer purchases the goods
          at the retail outlet. Payment for the transaction is due immediately at the point when the
          customer purchases the goods and takes delivery at the retail outlet.

(b) Sale of Goods with Credit Term

          Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of
          the goods to the customer, being when the goods have been delivered to the customer
          and upon its acceptance.

    A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that
    the consideration is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before
    the payment is due.

                                                                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 089
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.18 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (CONT'D)

(c) Rendering of Licensing Services

     Revenue from providing licensing services is recognised over time in the period in
     which the services are rendered. As a practical expedient, the Group recognises
     revenue on a straight-line method over the period of services.

(d) Rendering of Outlet Management and Consultancy Services

     Revenue from providing outlet management and consultancy services is recognised
     at a point in time.

     Customers are invoiced on a monthly basis and consideration is payable when invoiced.

(e) Dividend Income

     Dividend income from investment is recognised when the right to receive dividend
     payment is established.

(f)  Membership Fee

     The Group operates a membership programme that last 1 to 3 years where retail
     customers pay membership fee to entitle for membership discount for the duration of
     the membership programme. A contract liability is recognised at the time of receiving
     the membership fee. Revenue is recognised on a straight-line method over the period
     of membership.

4.19 OTHER OPERATING INCOME

(a) Interest Income

     Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

(b) Lease Income

     Lease income is accounted for on a straight-line method over the lease term.

55.. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES                     The Company

           Unquoted shares, at cost                  2022                          2021

                                                     RM'000       RM'000

                                                     32,877       30,572

090 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT'D)

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-

                               Principal Place Percentage of Issued

                               of Business/ Share Capital Held

                               Country of               by Parent

Name of Subsidiaries           Incorporation 2022                2021 Principal Activities
Subsidiaries of the Company
                                                      %              %

SDS Food Manufacturing         Malaysia               100            100 Manufacturing and distributing
 Sdn. Bhd. ("SDS Food")
                                                                        of bakery products

SDS Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.       Malaysia              100             100 Licensor of food & beverage
 ("SDS Enterprise")
                                                                        ("F&B") outlets

Super Arrow Trading Pte. Ltd.  Singapore             100             100 Wholesale of bakery products

   ("Super Arrow") ^                                                    in Singapore

Subsidiaries of SDS Food

SDS Top Baker Sdn. Bhd.        Malaysia              100             100 Manufacturing and distributing
 ("SDS Top Baker")
                                                                        of bakery products

SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn.
 Malaysia                100             100 Operator of F&B outlets

   Bhd. ("SDS B&C")

Daily Bakery Sdn. Bhd. 
       Malaysia              100             100 Manufacturing and distributing
 ("Daily Bakery")
                                                                        of bakery products

Subsidiary of SDS B&C

City Cake House Sdn. Bhd.      Malaysia               51             51 Operator of F&B outlet

   ("City Cake")

^  This subsidiary was audited by a member firm of Crowe Global of which Crowe Malaysia PLT
   is a member.

(a) The non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period comprise the following:-

                                                      Effective

                                                  Equity Interest       The Group

                                                  2022     2021         2022                      2021

                                                  %              %      RM'000                 RM'000

   City Cake                                      49             49     344                       359

     Summarised financial information of non-controlling interests has not been presented as the non-
     controlling interests of the subsidiary are not material to the Group.
(b) During the current financial year, the Company subscribed an additional 207,110 ordinary shares
     in a wholly-owned subsidiary, SDS Food for a total cash consideration of RM2,304,800.

                                                                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 091
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                                                NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                                             FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
                                                                                         31 MARCH 2022               Transfer from

092 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022                                                       Written                Depreciation   Right-of-use
                                                                                    Off                    Charges
                                           At Additions                                                   (Note 24)  Assets         At
                                                                            (Note 24)                       RM'000
                                           1.4.2021 (Note 28(a)) Disposals    RM'000                                 (Note 7) 31.3.2022

The Group                                  RM'000     RM'000 RM'000                                                  RM'000 RM'000

2022                                       17,808           -        -                          -     -                  - 17,808
                                           20,848           -        -                                               539 20,894
Carrying Amount                                       2,904          -                          -     (493)          260 3,863
                                            1,689
Freehold land                                         2,563          -                          -     (990)
Buildings                                  12,488     3,573    (131)
Motor vehicles                             30,094                                               (50)  (2,380)            39         12,660
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and               471          -                                                 669          29,805
                                                   -  9,511    (131)                            (37)  (4,363)
 renovation                                82,927                                                                          -            471
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                                                          -     -              1,507          85,501
Capital work-in-progress

                                                                                                (87)  (8,226)

                                           [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SDS GROUP BERHAD6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT'D)

                                                                                                NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSTransfer from
                                                                                             FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
                                                                                         31 MARCH 2022WrittenDepreciationRight-of-use
                                                                                          Off             Charges
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 093                           At Additions                                          (Note 24)  Assets         At
                                           1.4.2020 (Note 28(a))  Disposals (Note 24)                      RM'000
                                            RM'000 RM'000           RM'000 RM'000                                   (Note 7) 31.3.2021

The Group                                                                                                           RM'000 RM'000

2021

Carrying Amount

Freehold land                              17,808        -        -                             -            -      - 17,808
Buildings                                  21,401        -                                             (488)
                                                     485          (65)                          -    (1,154)        - 20,848
Motor vehicles                              2,385
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and          1,730          (46)                          (8)  (2,310)        27             1,689
                                           13,036  1,930                                             (4,101)
 renovation                                31,914  4,145          -                             (2)  (8,053)         34 12,488
Plant, machinery and factory equipment     86,544                                                                   402 30,094
                                                                  (41)   (10)                                       463 82,927

                                                                  (152)  (20)

                                           [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

The Group                                  At Cost   Accumulated               Accumulated    Carrying
                                           RM'000    Depreciation                Impairment   Amount
2022                                                                                  Losses   RM'000
                                                            RM'000                    RM'000
Freehold land
Buildings                                   17,808            -                    -          17,808
Motor vehicles                              25,744    (4,404)                  (446)          20,894
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and   24,249   (20,386)
                                                                                   -           3,863
 renovation                                 31,135   (18,475)
Plant, machinery and factory equipment      67,381   (37,576)                      -          12,660
Capital work-in-progress                                                           -          29,805
                                                471           -                    -
                                                                                                  471
                                           166,788   (80,841)                  (446)
                                                                                              85,501

2021                                        17,808            -                    -          17,808
                                            25,144    (3,850)                  (446)          20,848
Freehold land                               16,945   (15,256)
Buildings                                                                          -           1,689
Motor vehicles                              28,967   (16,479)
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and   63,548   (33,454)                      -          12,488
                                                                                   -          30,094
 renovation                                152,412   (69,039)
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                                         (446)          82,927

The freehold land and buildings of the Group have been pledged to licensed banks as security for
banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 17 to the financial statements.

                          [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

094 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SDS GROUP BERHADDerecognitionModificationTransfer to
                                                                           Due to      of Lease
       The Group                                                                                NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSLeaseLiabilitiesDepreciationProperty, Plant
                                                                                             FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED(Note 16)Charges
                                                                                         31 MARCH 2022AtAdditionsTermination(Note 24)and EquipmentAt
                                           1.4.2021    (Note 16)                        RM'000
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 095                    RM'000                        RM'000                               RM'000   (Note 6) 31.3.2022
                                                         RM'000
                                                                                                                        RM'000 RM'000

2022
Carrying Amount

Leasehold land                                 462           -            -                           -       (7)             -            455
Buildings                                      594           -            -                           -      (11)       (539)                44
Motor vehicles                              4,637            -            -                           -  (2,516)        (260)
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and                                                                                                1,861
                                                47           -            -                           -       (8)
 renovation                                 2,680            -            -                           -    (217)            (39)                 -
Plant, machinery and factory equipment     10,422      2,114      (1,296)                       3,022    (3,782)          (669)           1,794
Retail outlets, depots and hostels                                                                                                       10,480
                                           18,842      2,114      (1,296)                       3,022    (6,541)                -
                                                                                                                                         14,634
                                                                                                                        (1,507)

                                           [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT'D)                                                                 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSDerecognitionModificationTransfer to
                                                                                             FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDEDof Lease
       The Group                                                                         31 MARCH 2022Due toLiabilitiesDepreciation Property, Plant
                                                                                           (Note 16)
       2021096 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022                       At  Additions  Lease               RM'000     Charges and Equipment         At
                                                  1.4.2020
       Carrying Amount                             RM'000     (Note 16) Termination                     (Note 24)  (Note 6) 31.3.2021

       Leasehold land                                         RM'000     RM'000                         RM'000     RM'000 RM'000
       Buildings
       Motor vehicles                             470         -                -        -               (8)                  -        462
       Office equipment, furniture, fittings and                               -
                                                  610         -                -        -               (16)                 -        594
        renovation
       Plant, machinery and factory equipment     7,510       -                -        -               (2,846)    (27) 4,637
       Retail outlets, depots and hostels                                      -
                                                  100         -          (936)          -               (19)        (34)                   47
                                                                                                                   (402)               2,680
                                                  3,385       -          (936)          -               (303)                         10,422
                                                                                                                         -
                                                  14,700      647                       338             (4,327)                       18,842
                                                                                                                   (463)
                                                  26,775      647                       338             (7,519)

                                                                                                                   The Group

                                                                                                                   2022               2021

                                                                                                                   RM'000 RM'000

Analysed by:-                                                                                                        30,909             38,312
Cost                                                                                                               (16,275)           (19,470)
Accumulated depreciation
                                                                                                                     14,634             18,842
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

7.. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)

    (a) The Group leases a piece of leasehold land and building, motor vehicles, office equipment,
            furniture, fittings and renovation, plant, machinery and factory equipment, various retail outlets,
            depots and hostels of which the leasing activities are summarised below:-

    (i) Leasehold land     The remaining lease period of the leasehold land and building is 63
            and building   years, which is expiring in 2085.

    (ii) Motor vehicles, The Group has leased certain motor vehicles, office equipment,
            office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation, plant, machinery and factory
            furniture, fittings equipment and building under hire purchase arrangements. The
            and renovation, leases are secured by the leased assets.
            plant, machinery
            and factory
            equipment and
            building

    (iii) Retail outlets,  The Group has leased a number of retail outlets, depots and hostels

    depots and hostels that run between 1 to 6 years, with an option to renew the lease after

                           that date.

                           Some leases contain variable lease payments that are based on
                           sales that the Group makes at the retail outlets. Any reasonably
                           possible change in this key variable does not have a material impact
                           on the profit after tax and other comprehensive income of the Group.

    (b) The leasehold land and building have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking
            facilities granted to a subsidiary of the Group as disclosed in Note 17 to the financial statements.

8.  AMOUNT OWING BY SUBSIDIARIES

                                       The Company

                                       2022         2021

                                       RM'000       RM'000

    Non-current                        7,300        10,050
    Non-trade balance

    Current                             3,837        2,036
    Non-trade balances                 11,137       12,086

    (a) The non-trade balance (non-current) represents unsecured advances which are repayable
              within financial year 2024 to 2028 (2021 – 2023 to 2029) and bore effective interest rate of 3.48%
              (2021 – 3.47%) per annum. The amount owing is to be settled in cash.

                                                                                                                                     ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 097
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

88.. AMOUNT OWING BY SUBSIDIARIES (CONT'D)

(b) The non-trade balances (current) represent advances, interest charged for advances and dividend
          receivables. The advances bore effective interest rate of 3.48% (2021 – 3.47%) per annum. The
          amounts owing are to be settled in cash.

99.. GOODWILL

                                                                                                           The Group

                                                                                                           2022            2021

                                                                                                           RM'000          RM'000

Cost:-                                                                                                     162             162
At 1 April / 31 March

The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating unit is as follows:-

                                                                                                           The Group

                                                                                                           2022            2021

                                                                                                           RM'000          RM'000

SDS Top Baker                                                                                              162             162

No impairment testing is done on this cash-generating unit as it is considered immaterial to the Group.

1100.. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS                                                                                 Recognised in

           The Group                                At                                                     Profit or Loss  At
           2022                             1.4.2021
           Deferred Tax Liabilities                                                                        (Note 25) 31.3.2022
           Property, plant and equipment     RM'000
           Right-of-use assets                                                                             RM'000 RM'000

                                            (2,239)                                                                (663)   (2,902)
                                                (72)                                                                 18        (54)

                                            (2,311)                                                                (645) (2,956)

Deferred Tax Assets

Unabsorbed capital allowances                     -                                                                  16        16
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance           3,663                                                                   (21)   3,642
Unused tax losses                                                                                                  100
Contract liabilities                             2                                                                           102
Lease liabilities                               19                                                                    (7)      12
                                                74                                                                  (17)       57

                                                                                                    3,758            71    3,829
                                       [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
                                                                                                                   (574)     873
                                                                                                    1,447

098 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

100.. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (CONT’D)                        Recognised in

           The Group                                  At  Profit or Loss  At
           2021                               1.4.2020
           Deferred Tax Liabilities                       (Note 25) 31.3.2021
           Property, plant and equipment       RM'000
           Right-of-use assets                            RM'000 RM'000

           Deferred Tax Assets                (1,284)     (955)           (2,239)
           Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance      (83)      11                (72)
           Unused tax losses
           Contract liabilities               (1,367)     (944)           (2,311)
           Lease liabilities
                                              3,662           1           3,663
                                                     -        2                2
                                                             (6)
                                                   25      (11)               19
                                                   85                         74
                                              3,772        (14)
                                              2,405                       3,758
                                                          (958)
                                                                          1,447

The deferred tax assets on unused tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances have been recognised
by certain subsidiaries on the basis of its previous history of recording profits and to the extent that it
is probable that future profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

The unused tax losses are allowed to be utilised for 10 (2021 – 10) consecutive years of assessment
(“YA”) while the unabsorbed capital allowances are allowed to be carried forward indefinitely.

The Group’s unused tax losses of RM264,700 and RM163,300 can be carried forward up to YA 2031
and YA 2032 respectively (YA 2021 – RM264,700 can be carried forward up to YA 2031).

[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 099
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

111.. INVENTORIES                                        The Group

           Raw materials                                 2022                      2021
           Finished goods
           Goods-in-transit                              RM'000                    RM'000

                                                         6,143                     5,372
                                                           377                       334
                                                           122                           -

                                                         6,642                     5,706

Recognised in profit or loss:-                           126,027                   109,984
Inventories recognised as cost of sales                           -                       45
Amount written down to net realisable value (Note 24)

12.. TRADE RECEIVABLES                                   The Group

           Trade receivables                             2022                      2021
           Allowance for impairment losses
                                                         RM'000                    RM'000
           Allowance for impairment losses:-
           At 1 April                                    9,470                     7,732
           Addition during the financial year (Note 24)     (11)                      (51)
           Reversal during the financial year (Note 24)
           Written off during the financial year         9,459                     7,681
           At 31 March
                                                         51                        92

                                                         7                         34

                                                         (23)                      (21)

                                                         (24)                      (54)

                                                         11                        51

The Group’s normal trade credit terms range from 15 to 60 (2021 – 15 to 60) days.

100 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

13.. OTHER RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS

                                     The Group                The Company

                                     2022       2021          2022         2021

                                     RM'000     RM'000        RM'000       RM'000

Other receivables                      124          33        -            -
Deposits                             3,330      2,734
Prepayments                          1,529      1,507         2            1

                                     4,983      4,274         87           14

                                                              89           15

Included in deposits of the Group at the end of the reporting period is an amount of RM951,561 (2021 –
RM639,488) which represents downpayment paid for future purchase of property, plant and equipment.

14. SHARE CAPITAL                               The Group/The Company

           Issued and Fully Paid-Up  2022       2021          2022            2021
           Ordinary Shares                                                 RM'000
           At 1 April / 31 March     Number of Shares ('000)  RM'000

                                     405,824    405,824       53,111       53,111

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company
and are entitled to one vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. The ordinary shares have
no par value.

15.. RESERVES

          ((aa)) Merger Deficit

                     The merger deficit represents the difference between the carrying value of the investment in
                     subsidiaries and the share capital of the Company’s subsidiaries upon consolidation under the
                     merger accounting principle.

          ((bb)) Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve

                     The foreign exchange translation reserve arose from the translation of the financial statements
                     of a foreign subsidiary whose functional currency is different from the Group’s presentation
                     currency.

                                                              ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 101
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

116. LEASE LIABILITIES                                               The Group

            At 1 April                                               2022       2021
            Additions (Notes 7 and 28(b))
            Interest expense recognised in profit or loss (Note 24)  RM'000     RM'000
            Changes due to lease modification (Note 7 and 28(b))
            Derecognition due to lease termination (Note 28(b))      17,441     24,919
            Repayment of principal                                    2,114         647
            Repayment of interest expense                                654        975
            At 31 March                                               3,022         338
                                                                     (1,424)
            Analysed by:-                                            (7,832)    (1,076)
            Current liabilities                                         (654)   (7,387)
            Non-current liabilities
                                                                     13,321        (975)

                                                                                17,441

                                                                      5,557      7,808
                                                                      7,764      9,633

                                                                     13,321     17,441

Certain lease liabilities of the Group are secured by the Group’s motor vehicles, office equipment,
furniture, fittings and renovation, plant, machinery and factory equipment and building under hire
purchase arrangements as disclosed in Note 7(a)(ii) to the financial statements, with lease terms
ranging from 3 to 5 (2021 – 3 to 5) years and bear effective interest rates ranging from 1.08% to 6.38%
(2021 – 1.08% to 6.52%) per annum.

117. TERM LOANS                                                      The Group

            Current liabilities                                      2022       2021
            Non-current liabilities
                                                                     RM'000     RM'000

                                                                      2,545      2,900
                                                                     12,813     22,727

                                                                     15,358     25,627

The term loans are secured by legal charges over freehold land, leasehold land and buildings of the
Group as disclosed in Notes 6 and 7 to the financial statements.

The above floating rate term loans of the Group bore effective interest rates ranging from 3.17% to
5.00% (2021 – 3.17% to 5.39%) per annum.

102 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

188.. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES                          Recognised in

           The Group                          At Profit or Loss                               At
           2022
           Deferred Tax Liabilities           1.4.2021  (Note 25) 31.3.2022
           Property, plant and equipment *
           Unrealised foreign exchange gain   RM'000    RM'000 RM'000
           Right-of-use assets
                                              3,482     650            4,132
           Deferred Tax Assets                      1
           Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance            -                                     1
           Lease liabilities                  2,430
                                              5,913     31             2,461

                                                (573)   681            6,594
                                              (2,669)
                                              (3,242)     397            (176)
                                              2,671         23         (2,646)

                                                          420          (2,822)

                                                        1,101          3,772

                                                        Recognised in

                                              At Profit or Loss                               At

                                              1.4.2020  (Note 25) 31.3.2021

                                              RM'000    RM'000 RM'000

The Group                                     3,435          47        3,482
                                                   1           -            1
2021
                                              3,445     (1,015)        2,430
Deferred Tax Liabilities

Property, plant and equipment *
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
Right-of-use assets

                                              6,881     (968)          5,913

Deferred Tax Assets

Unabsorbed capital allowances                     (12)  12                                    -
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance               (612)
Lease liabilities                             (3,598)   39                                    (573)

                                                        929            (2,669)

                                              (4,222)   980            (3,242)

                                              2,659     12             2,671

*  Includes deferred tax from fair value adjustment in a purchase price allocation exercise.

                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 103
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

199.. CONTRACT LIABILITIES                             The Group

           Current liabilities                         2022         2021
           Non-current liabilities
                                                       RM'000     RM'000

                                                       398          278

                                                       205          197

                                                       603          475

Contract liabilities relate to the unsatisfied performance obligation in which the Group has yet to deliver
the licensing and membership services to its customers. The contract liabilities are recognised to profit
or loss only when the performance obligation has been fulfilled.

200.. TRADE PAYABLES
          The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 150 (2021 – 30 to 150) days.

21. OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS

                                    The Group          The Company

                                    2022       2021    2022         2021

                                    RM'000     RM'000  RM'000     RM'000

Other payables:-                    2,869      2,079   32                                                   9
Third parties                           10          7
Goods and services tax payable                                 -                                            -
Sales and service tax payable         279        223
                                                               -                                            -
Deposits received                   3,158      2,309
Accruals                              167        143   32                                                   9
Payroll liabilities                              780
                                    1,077                      -                                            -
                                    3,157      2,299
                                                       254          100
                                    7,559      5,531
                                                               -                                            -

                                                       286          109

22.. AMOUNT OWING TO A SUBSIDIARY

           The non-trade balance owing to a subsidiary represented unsecured, interest-free payments made on
           behalf. The amount owing was settled during the current financial year.

104 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

23. REVENUE                                The Group               The Company

            Revenue from Contracts with    2022        2021        2022         2021
             Customers
                                           RM'000      RM'000      RM'000   RM'000
            Recognised at a point in time
            Sales of goods                 197,546     173,340           -            -
            Others                              252         219          -            -
                                                                         -            -
            Recognised over time           197,798     173,559
            License fee                                                  -            -
            Membership fee                        26          26         -            -
                                                459         193          -            -
            Revenue from Other Sources          485         219          -            -
            Dividend income                198,283     173,778
                                                                   3,580        1,536
                                                    -           -  3,580        1,536
                                           198,283     173,778

The information on the disaggregation of revenue by geographical market is disclosed in Note 31.2 to
the financial statements.

[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 105
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

2244.. PROFIT BEFORE TAX                              The Group          The Company

           Profit before tax is arrived at:-          2022       2021    2022         2021

           After Charging                             RM'000     RM'000  RM'000  RM'000

           Auditors’ remuneration:                      198        185   20           20
           - audit fees
           - non-audit fee:                                5          5  3            5
                                                          50         14
             - auditors of the Company                                   -            -
           Bad debts written off                      8,226      8,053
           Depreciation:                              6,541      7,519   -            -
           - property, plant and equipment (Note 6)
           - right-of-use assets (Note 7)                  7         34  -            -
           Impairment loss on trade receivables
                                                                         -            -
             (Note 12)
           Interest expense on financial liabilities  2          13      -            -

             that are not at fair value through       -          18      -            -
             profit or loss:
             - bank overdrafts                        800        1,045   -            -
             - bankers' acceptance
             - term loans                             654        975     -            -
           Interest expense on lease liabilities
             (Note 16)                                -          45      -            -
           Inventories written down (Note 11)
           Lease expenses:                            765        637     -            -
           - short-term leases
           - low-value assets                         33         125     -            -
           - variable lease payments
           Loss on foreign exchange:                  197        143     -            -
           - realised
           - unrealised                               -          9       -            -
           Property, plant and equipment written
             off (Note 6)                             6          3       -            -
           Staff costs (including other key
             management personnel as disclosed        87         20      -            -
             in Note 29):
             - short-term employee benefits           37,729     32,415  -            -
             - defined contribution benefits           3,255      2,953
                                                                         -            -

106 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

2244.. PROFIT BEFORE TAX (CONT’D)                      The Group           The Company

           Profit before tax is arrived at (Cont'd):-  2022       2021     2022         2021

           After Crediting                             RM'000     RM'000   RM'000  RM'000

           Bad debts recovered                         *          2        -            -
           Gain on disposal of property, plant and
                                                       105        430      -            -
             equipment
           Gain on disposal of short-term              21         -        21           -

             investment                                128        140      -            -
           Gain on lease termination
           Insurance compensation                      -          239      -            -
           Interest income on financial assets
                                                       209        175      536          589
             measured at amortised cost
           Lease income                                6          53       -            -
           Realised gain on foreign exchange
           Reversal of impairment loss on trade        1          -        -            -

             receivables (Note 12)                     23         21       -            -

*  Denotes amount less than RM500.

25. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

Income Tax Expenses Recognised in Profit or Loss

                                                       The Group           The Company

                                                       2022       2021     2022         2021

                                                       RM'000     RM'000   RM'000  RM'000

Income tax:

- current financial year                               1,900      1,513    107          126

- (over)/under provision in the previous

- financial year                                       (75)       28       (1)          (5)

                                                       1,825      1,541    106          121

Deferred tax (Notes 10 and 18):                        1,678      1,033    -            -
- origination and reversal of temporary                   (65)       (11)
- differences                                                              -            -
- under provision of deferred tax assets                   62        (52)
                                                                           -            -
   in the previous financial year
- under/(over) provision of deferred tax

   liabilities in the previous financial
   year

                                                       1,675      970      -            -

                                                       3,500      2,511    106          121

                                                                           ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

2255.. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)

Income Tax Expenses Recognised in Profit or Loss (Cont’d)

A reconciliation of tax expense applicable to the profit before tax at the statutory tax rate to income tax

expense at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RRRMMM222''00'TT00T00T2020hh20hh202020eeee GGGGrrrroooouuuuppppRRRMMM222''00'0000202020101010  RRRMMMTTTT222hh'h'00h'0000ee20e20e20202020CCCCoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyRyRyRMMM222''00'0000202020101010

PPPrrrooofffiiittt bbbeeefffooorrreeetttaaaxxx                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R111M4442,,',01011200023033      RM9992,,',050552808819099                                     RM3332,,',600663203382088     RM1112,,',600666206681088

TPTTatartataoaxaxxxfxxieteerrxrxabxaappteptteeeefeonnnoorossesfffeee222t4aa4a4a%xt%t%t ttthhh(((e2e2e2000sss222ttt1a1a1attt–u–u–uttt2o2o2o4r4r4ryy%y%%)))                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13433,,,,313380885355            2922,,,,353308001911                                          3,868873773833                1,644460008000
TDDTNNTNNDRRT-T----((UUUDNTNDRT---(UUDNTDNRT---(UUOOOOaaaaatddsslooddddrrttiiaaeeoooioieennndsloddrtiaaeoioenndlsoddrtiineoioennaffcceehhinfcehinxxxaxxvvfcehuuffutteeeexaxvfnnnndddddufuteexaxvfnndddufuteeeefnndddxehhiiiieeeeeehiieeebehiieerrbbddddttnnttb----uueeerbddtntb--ueerbddtnterreeii--ueeriieeiirrhhreittddireirhreiinntdireirhnneessuuuuzzvvintdrrrccpp))rrrnesuuzvinaalrcp)rrnesuuzvxffalrcp)rrrreefaleeaeeiee////refffcceeie//reggnniicccefceeie//tttrrgniccefcxxeeUUpp((ttrgniccepddxeUp(ttrdxeUp(dtddiiijjsseedeeOOddiijsettttttnneOddiijseooeuupptttneOeaaccrroeuptttneiicaroeupttiiiiiinnacruuvvtttiiiniaannoouvttiiinaaoooossnouvthhnnsrrrraoosanottbbttmmvvhnsrraoosniitbtmvhnsrrdditbtmvcciieediaaossrrttoovvciedllnnnneeasrtovcieeesslnneasrtovlleslnnesyyiileseeiiyiltteeiiivveiyixxfvvuueteiiveiiissrrxvueteiivnnnddisrxvueinndisrennooiiinndffffeerr))noiiffbbffer)noi2ssnnoofbffer)ooooiisnofbiiiiooisnoiiiooiaaffooiiinnccssafoillnntttppppcsafo4::ttuulnttppncsattrrrr:tulnttppeetrr:tuaahetrrss--ffnnaheaaatt::s-fnahccrrrraat:s-fn%iisscrraat:taaiscrrcciieeaisxxennoooocieassxenoociennxxoosxenooeeoonxoseonxollooeotoommloaavvvvomloeellffavvomccnnelfavvxxhmmcnelfrrpooiixmcniiffiirpoxm(rrssifirpoinnnrsifittaassssnnrsiitassnnepp2aappitassrwwpapiassddrwpapttasdrweeccaatasdteiiiiecatteiiecaee0ttssllteiiooooetsllleeeeooetsloaaleeooseeiinnoaleeveinoannveinnn2aavnnnnnanyyffnnnaiyynyfnntoocciynyfeeociynooooeocss1lloooeaoosloooeeoslmmcceoffiimcerroooofimcttnnuroofieeyyaatnurootffeyatnuaarrfeyaeearf–rrearuffffreseeffrssrreeeellsffaaeesrelserraesreelccraeeecrtiiddecdidennaayydid2nnnnaydonnnayoofnnccofffeecofifecttrreife4oooocctreirnooctremmttnoocoomtnffomtyfoaaaaf%rrvvooooeeaaarvooeaaarvooeggaeegaaegppxxrraeffmmrrpxranfmrpxrnfmrnnniirrn)ttirnaatirggssatceegsaiicegsiiaaiceeeiaiooeiassnnoeneesnoiddnesnidnessidasnnaseeyynanneynttneytnsstlsaattlsddatliidatidaaiiiooeeayioeaxxyioennxynxnxxrrttxertxertesssiisiainnananrrr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,(((315151580707075898989)))   2,3444(((06161611717171)))                                     (((188181807707074304040)))   (((433309696960484848)))
 liabilities in the previous financial year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (150789---)                     4(61667177)                                                  (180740---)                   (39648---)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (((444999-)))                   (((65557555)))
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (((45559444)))                  (((5555333)))                                                    ---                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (54---)                         (((57773222)))                                                   ---                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (((111(((161616232323-))))))     ((((79992888---))))                                              ---                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1((((1677723555))))             (9222888-)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (((7666555)))                   (((21118111)))                                                   ----                          ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (((111-)))                    (((555-)))
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (6662522)                       (((51552122)))                                                 (1---)                        (5---)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            333,,,55506000200               222,,,555(15111211)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ---                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            111000666-                    111222111-

Domestic income tax is calculated at the Mala3y,5s0ia0n statutory2t,a5x11rate of 24% 1(200621 – 24%) o1f2t1he
estimated assessable profit for the financial year. The taxation of other jurisdiction is calculated at the
rate prevailing in that jurisdiction.

108 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

2266.. EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                     The Group   2021
                                                                            2022
           Profit after tax attributable to owners of the Company (RM'000)
                                                                            10,618        7,271

Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue ('000)                  405,824       405,824
Basic earnings per share (Sen)                                                  2.62          1.79

The Company has not issued any dilutive potential ordinary shares and hence, the diluted earnings
per share is equal to the basic earnings per share.

2277.. DIVIDEND

                                                                            The Group/The Company

                                                                            2022          2021

                                                                            RM'000        RM'000

First interim dividend of 0.25 sen per ordinary share in respect

of the current financial year                                               1,015                  -

Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Company has declared second interim dividend of
0.50 sen per ordinary share in respect of the current financial year and was paid on 30 June 2022.

2288.. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

(a) The cash disbursed for the purchase of property, plant and equipment is as follows:-

                                                                            The Group

                                                                            2022          2021

                                                                            RM'000        RM'000

Property, plant and equipment

Cost of property, plant and equipment purchased (Note 6)                    9,511         4,145
Less: Downpayment paid in the previous financial year                        (342)         (399)
Less: Other payables - balances remained unpaid at
                                                                             (559)         (165)
        financial year end                                                  8,610         3,581

Add: Payments in respect of previous financial year's                         165           623
Add: purchases                                                              8,775         4,204

                                                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

288.. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows:-

The Group                                          Lease                                           Term       Total
2022                                           Liabilities                                       Loans     RM'000
At 1 April 2021                                                                                 RM'000
                                                 RM'000                                                    43,068

                                               17,441                                           25,627     (18,101)
                                                                                                            (1,454)
Changes in Financing Cash Flows                (7,832)                                          (10,269)
Repayment of principal                           (654)                                              (800)  (19,555)
Repayment of interests
                                               (8,486)                                          (11,069)     2,114
Non-cash Changes                                                                                             3,022
Acquisition of new leases (Notes161)6)          2,114                                                   -   (1,424)
Changes due to lease modification (Note 16)     3,022                                                   -    1,454
Derecognition due to lease termination                                                                       5,166
                                               (1,424)                                                  -  28,679
  (Note 16)
Interest expense recognised in profit or loss      654                                              800
                                                4,366                                               800
  (Note 24)                                    13,321                                           15,358

At 31 March 2022

                                           [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

110 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

288.. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)
          (b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (Cont’d):-

The Group                               Bankers'      Lease             Term        Total
                                    Acceptance    Liabilities         Loans      RM'000
2021                                                                 RM'000
                                          RM'000    RM'000                       54,286
At 1 April 2020                                                      29,367
                                    -             24,919                           1,729
Changes in Financing Cash Flows                                            75    (12,856)
Proceeds from drawdown              1,654                -            (3,815)
Repayment of principal              (1,654)       (7,387)             (1,045)     (2,038)
Repayment of interests                                                (4,785)    (13,165)
                                        (18)        (975)
Non-cash Changes                                                              -       647
Acquisition of new leases               (18)      (8,362)                     -       338
                                                                              -   (1,076)
  (Notes161)6)                      -             647                  1,045       2,038
Changes due to lease modification                                      1,045       1,947
                                    -             338                25,627      43,068
  (Note 16)
Derecognition due to lease          -             (1,076)

  termination (Note 16)             18            975
Interest expense recognised in
                                    18            884
   profit or loss (Note 24)
                                    -             17,441
At 31 March 2021

(c) The total cash outflows for leases as a lessee are as follows:-

                                                                     The Group

                                                                     2022                                     2021

                                                                     RM'000      RM'000

Payment of short-term leases                                           765         637
Payment of low-value assets                                              33        125
Variable lease payments                                                            143
Interest paid on lease liabilities                                     197         975
Payment of lease liabilities                                           654       7,387
                                                                     7,832
                                                                                 9,267
                                                                     9,481

                                                                     ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 111
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

29. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION

The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include executive directors and
non-executive directors of the Company and certain members of senior management of the Group and
of the Company.

The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:-

                                    The Group          The Company

                                    2022       2021    2022                           2021

                                    RM'000     RM'000  RM'000                         RM'000

(a) Directors                         154        142   154                            142
     Directors of the Company
     Short-term employee benefits:  1,797      1,699   14                             16
     - fees                         1,951      1,841
     - salaries, bonuses and other                     168                            158
     - benefits                       203        195
                                    2,154      2,036   -                              -
     Defined contribution benefits
                                                       168                            158
     Directors of the Subsidiaries
     Short-term employee benefits:    254        301   -                              -
     - salaries, bonuses and other      17         24
     - benefits                                        -                              -
     Defined contribution benefits    271        325
                                                       -                              -
     Total directors' remuneration  2,425      2,361
                                                       168                            158

(b) Other Key Management
       Personnel

Short-term employee benefits        558        548     -                              -

Defined contribution benefits       65         65      -                              -

Total compensation for other

key management personnel            623        613     -                              -

112 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

300.. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

(a) Identities of Related Parties

Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly
or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in
making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and
the party are subject to common control.

In addition to the information detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group has related
party relationships with its directors, key management personnel, companies in which certain
directors have controlling interests and entities within the same group of companies.

(b) Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances

Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also
carried out the following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:-

                                                         The Group

                                                         2022         2021

                                                         RM'000       RM'000

Companies in which certain directors have controlling    481          383
 interests
                                                         6            6
Lease paid/payable
Rental of premises received/receivable

Director's family member                                 18           18
Lease paid/payable

                                                         The Company

                                                         2022         2021

                                                         RM'000       RM'000

Subsidiaries                                             5,620        6,267
Advances to subsidiaries                                 3,580        1,536
Dividend income received/receivable
Interest income received/receivable                        402          463
Payments on behalf of the Company                              -          29

The significant outstanding balances of the related parties together with their terms and conditions
are disclosed in the respective notes to the financial statements.

The related party transactions described above were entered into in the normal course of
business carried out based on negotiated terms and conditions and are mutually agreed with
respective parties.

                                                         ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 113
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

31.. OPERATING SEGMENTS

Operating segments are prepared in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
Managing Director as its chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to segments and
to assess their performance on a monthly basis. For management purposes, the Group is organised
into business units based on their products and services provided.

The Group is organised into 3 main reportable segments as follows:-

··  Retail                – involved in the manufacturing of products and dealing directly with ultimate
                                customers through the Group’s retail outlets. Companies under this
                                segment included SDS Food, SDS B&C, City Cake and SDS Enterprise.

··  Wholesale – involved in the manufacturing of products and distributing to the retailer

                          through the Group’s fleet of lorries. Companies under this segment included

                          SDS Top Baker, Daily Bakery and Super Arrow.

··  Other                 – provide group-level management services. Company under this segment is
                                SDS Group Berhad.

(a) The Managing Director assesses the performance of the reportable segments based on their
          profit before interest expense and tax. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are
          the same as the Group’s accounting policies.

    Borrowings and investment-related activities are managed on a group basis by the central
    treasury function and are not allocated to reportable segments.

(b) Each reportable segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of the
          segment other than tax-related assets.

(c) Each reportable segment liabilities is measured based on all liabilities of the segment other
          than borrowings and tax-related liabilities and borrowings managed on a group basis by the
          corporate segment.

(d) Assets, liabilities and expenses which are common and cannot be meaningfully allocated to
          the reportable segments are presented under unallocated items.

Transactions between reportable segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties.
Transfer prices between operating segments are at arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions
with third parties. The effects of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.

114 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

311.. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                               Retail  Wholesale       Other      The
                                                            Segment       Segment   Segment    Group
          31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS                                            RM'000             RM'000
                                                              RM'000                  RM'000
                       31.3.2022
                       Revenue                              65,666      132,617           -    198,283
                       External revenue                     17,505         1,422    3,580       22,507
                       Inter-segment revenue
                                                            83,171      134,039     3,580      220,790
                       Consolidation adjustments                                               (22,507)
                       Consolidated revenue                                                    198,283

                       Results                              9,334       8,819       4,137      22,290
                       Segment profit                                                          (1,456)
                       Finance costs
                       Unallocated expenses                                                       (499)
                       Consolidation adjustments                                               (6,232)
                       Consolidated profit before tax
                                                                                               14,103
                       Other information
                       Depreciation of property, plant and  (2,839)     (5,387)     -          (8,226)
                                                            (3,578)     (2,963)
                        equipment                                                   -          (6,541)
                       Depreciation of right-of-use assets

[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 115
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

311.. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                                Retail  Wholesale       Other      The
                                                             Segment       Segment   Segment    Group
          31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                                    RM'000             RM'000
                                                               RM'000                  RM'000
                       31.3.2022
                                                             82,251      77,198      55,649     215,098
                       Assets
                                                                                                     718
                       Segment assets                                                                873
                       Unallocated assets:                                                      (73,599)
                       - current tax assets
                       - deferred tax assets                                                    143,090
                       Consolidation adjustments
                       Consolidated total assets             4,329       5,182       -          9,511
                                                             1,625         489
                       Addition to non-current assets other                          -          2,114
                         than financial instruments and
                         deferred tax assets are:-           16,835      29,909      286        47,030

                       Property, plant and equipment                                                  68
                       Right-of-use assets                                                        3,772
                                                                                                13,321
                       Liabilities                                                              15,358
                                                                                                (18,330)
                       Segment liabilities
                       Unallocated liabilities:                                                 61,219
                       - current tax liabilities
                       - deferred tax liabilities
                       - lease liabilities
                       - term loans
                       Consolidation adjustments
                       Consolidated total liabilities

                          [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

116 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

311.. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                               Retail  Wholesale       Other      The
                                                            Segment       Segment   Segment    Group
          31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                                   RM'000             RM'000
                                                              RM'000                  RM'000
                       31.3.2021
                       Revenue                              56,837      116,941           -    173,778
                       External revenue                     12,664         1,439    1,536       15,639
                       Inter-segment revenue
                                                            69,501      118,380     1,536      189,417
                       Consolidation adjustments                                               (15,639)
                       Consolidated revenue                                                    173,778

                       Results                              6,827       6,949       2,125      15,901
                       Segment profit                                                          (2,051)
                       Finance costs
                       Unallocated expenses                                                       (457)
                       Consolidation adjustments                                               (3,804)
                       Consolidated profit before tax
                                                                                                9,589
                       Other information
                       Depreciation of property, plant and  (2,674)     (5,379)     -          (8,053)
                                                            (4,208)     (3,311)
                        equipment                                                   -          (7,519)
                       Depreciation of right-of-use assets

[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 117
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                                  Retail  Wholesale       Other      The
                                                             Segment       Segment   Segment    Group
           31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)                                   RM'000             RM'000
                                                               RM'000                  RM'000
                       31.3.2021
                                                             76,920      75,137      52,991     205,048
                       Assets
                                                                                                     795
                       Segment assets                                                              1,447
                       Unallocated assets:                                                      (68,271)
                       - current tax assets
                       - deferred tax assets                                                    139,019
                       Consolidation adjustments
                       Consolidated total assets             2,503       1,642       -          4,145
                                                               439         208
                       Addition to non-current assets other                          -          647
                         than financial instruments and
                         deferred tax assets are:-           11,955      24,242      109        36,306

                       Property, plant and equipment                                                 111
                       Right-of-use assets                                                        2,671
                                                                                                17,441
                       Liabilities                                                              25,627
                                                                                                (15,408)
                       Segment liabilities
                       Unallocated liabilities:                                                 66,748
                       - current tax liabilities
                       - deferred tax liabilities
                       - lease liabilities
                       - term loans
                       Consolidation adjustments
                       Consolidated total liabilities

                          [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

118 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
           31.2 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

                      Revenue is based on the country in which the customers are located.

                      Non-current assets are determined according to the country where these assets are located.
                      The amounts of non-current assets do not include deferred tax assets.

                                           Revenue             Non-current Assets

                                           2022      2021      2022                                    2021

The Group                                  RM'000    RM'000    RM'000                                  RM'000

Malaysia                                   185,235   161,554   100,297                                 101,931
Singapore                                   12,348    10,452            -                                       -
Indonesia                                       700     1,772           -                                       -

                                           198,283   173,778   100,297                                 101,931

31.3 MAJOR CUSTOMERS

                     There is no single customer that contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue.
322.. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

                                                               The Group

                                                               2022                                    2021

                                                               RM'000                                  RM'000

Purchase of property, plant and equipment                      1,151                                   820

33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

           The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of market risks (including foreign currency risk, interest
           rate risk and equity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management
           policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
           effects on the Group’s financial performance.

                                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 119
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3343.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT'D)
          33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES

The Group’s policies in respect of the major areas of treasury activity are as follows:-

(a) Market Risk

(i) Foreign Currency Risk

The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that
are denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of
entities within the Group. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily Singapore
Dollar (“SGD”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing basis to
ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level.

The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk (a currency which is other than the
functional currencies of the entities within the Group) based on the carrying amounts
of the financial instruments at the end of the reporting period is summarised below:-

Foreign Currency Exposure

                                                   The Group

                                                   2022                                   2021

                                                   RM'000     RM'000

SGD

Financial Liability                                (1,185)                                (557)
Trade payables                                     (1,185)                                (557)

Currency Exposure

      Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity Analysis

      Any reasonably possible change in the foreign currency exchange rate at the end
      of the reporting period against the respective functional currencies of the entities
      within the Group does not have a material impact on the profit after tax and equity
      of the Group and hence, no sensitivity analysis is presented.

(ii) Interest Rate Risk

      Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
      instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s
      exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from long-term borrowings with variable
      rates. The Group’s policy is to obtain the most favourable interest rates available
      and by maintaining a balanced portfolio mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.

120 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

33.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

          33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

                     (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

                              (ii) Interest Rate Risk (Cont’d)

                                    The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. Therefore, they are
                                    not subject to interest rate risk as defined in MFRS 7 since neither carrying amounts
                                    nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.

                                    The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk based on the carrying amounts of the
                                    financial instruments at the end of the reporting period is disclosed in Note 17 to the
                                    financial statements.

                                    Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity Analysis

                                    Any reasonably possible change in the interest rates of floating rate term loans at
                                    the end of the reporting period does not have a material impact on the profit after
                                    taxation and equity of the Group and hence, no sensitivity analysis is presented.

                              (iii) Equity Price Risk

                                    The Group does not have any quoted investments and hence, is not exposed to
                                    equity price risk.

                     (b) Credit Risk

                              The Group’s exposure to credit risk, or the risk of counterparties defaulting, arises mainly
                              from trade and other receivables. The Group manages its exposure to credit risk by
                              monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis. For other financial assets (including cash
                              and bank balances), the Group minimises credit risk by dealing exclusively with high
                              credit rating counterparties.

                              The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from advances to subsidiaries
                              and corporate guarantee given to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to
                              certain subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly
                              and repayments made by the subsidiaries.

                              (i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile

                                    The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amount owing by 1
                                    (2021– 1) customer which constituted approximately 10% (2021 – 14%) of its trade
                                    receivables at the end of the reporting period.

                                                                                                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 121
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333. . FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(b) Credit Risk (Cont'd)
        (i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile (Cont'd)

In addition, the Group also determines the concentration of credit risk by monitoring
the geographical region of its trade receivables on an ongoing basis. The credit risk
concentration profile of trade receivables at the end of the reporting period is as
follows:-

                                                        The Group

                                                        2022       2021

                                                        RM'000     RM'000

Malaysia                                                7,356      5,793
Singapore                                               1,904      1,687
Indonesia
                                                          199        201

                                                        9,459      7,681

                            (ii) Maximum Exposure to Credit Risk

                                   At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented
                                   by the carrying amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statement
                                   of financial position of the Group and of the Company after deducting any allowance
                                   for impairment losses (where applicable).

                                   In addition, the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk also includes corporate
                                   guarantees provided to its subsidiaries of RM15,358,634 (2021 – Nil), representing
                                   the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting
                                   period. These corporate guarantees have not been recognised in the Company’s
                                   financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition were not material.

                            (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses

                                   The Group has an informal credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is
                                   monitored on an on-going basis through periodic review of the ageing of the trade
                                   receivables. The Group closely monitors the trade receivables’ financial strength to
                                   reduce the risk of loss.

                                   At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the financial assets at
                                   amortised cost are credit impaired.

                                   The gross carrying amounts of financial assets are written off against the associated
                                   impairment, if any, when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery despite the
                                   fact that they are still subject to enforcement activities.

122 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                             SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
           33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

                      (b) Credit Risk (Cont'd)
                              (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont'd)

                                     A financial asset is credit impaired when any of following events that have a
                                     detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have
                                     occurred:
                                     - Significant financial difficulty of the receivable;
                                     - A breach of contract, such as default or past due event;
                                     - Restructuring of a debt in relation to the receivable’s financial difficulty;
                                     - It is becoming probable that the receivable will enter bankruptcy or other financial

                                         reorganisation.

                                     The Group considers a receivable to be in default when the receivable is unlikely
                                     to repay its debt to the Group in full or its balance is significant and outstanding for
                                     more than 12 months.

                                     Trade Receivables

                                     The Group applies the simplified approach to measure expected credit losses using
                                     a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables.

                                     Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

                                     To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based
                                     on the months past due.

                                     The Group measures the expected credit losses of certain major customers, trade
                                     receivables that are credit impaired and trade receivables with a high risk of default
                                     on individual basis.

                                     The expected loss rates are based on the Group’s historical credit losses
                                     experienced. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-
                                     looking information on macroeconomic factors, such as Gross Domestic Product
                                     (GDP), affecting the ability of the trade receivables to settle their debts.

                                     There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as
                                     compared to the previous financial year.

                                                                                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 123
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

(iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

Trade Receivables (Cont’d)

Allowance for Impairment Losses

                                                  Gross Lifetime Loss  Carrying
                                                                       Amount
                                                Amount Allowance        RM'000

                                                RM'000   RM'000           6,245

The Group                                         6,245  -                3,125
2022                                                                          58
Current (not past due)                                                        10
                                                                              21
Past due:                                         3,125  -
- less than 3 months                                                      9,459
- 3 to 6 months                                   59     (1)
- more than 6 months                                                      4,675
- more than 1 year                                12     (2)
                                                                          2,834
2021                                              29     (8)                  23
                                                                              87
Current (not past due)                            9,470  (11)                 62

                                                  4,675  -                7,681

Past due:                                         2,834  -
- less than 3 months
- 3 to 6 months                                   23     -
- more than 6 months
- more than 1 year                                87     -

                                                  113    (51)

                                                  7,732  (51)

                                    The movements in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivables are disclosed
                                    in Note 12 to the financial statements.

                                    Other Receivables

                                    Other receivables are also subject to the impairment requirements of MFRS 9. Based
                                    on the assessment performed, the identified impairment loss was immaterial and
                                    hence, it is not provided for.

124 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

           33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

                      (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

                              (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

                                    Cash and Bank Balances

                                    The Group considers the licensed banks have low credit risks. In addition, some of
                                    the bank balances are insured by Government agencies. Therefore, the Group is of
                                    the view that the loss allowance is immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.

                                    Amount Owing by Subsidiaries (Non-trade Balances)

                                    The Company applies the 3-stage general approach to measuring expected credit
                                    losses for all inter-company balances. The Company considers loans and advances
                                    to subsidiaries have low credit risks. The Company assumes that there is a significant
                                    increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly.

                                    The Company measures the expected credit losses on individual basis, which is
                                    aligned with its credit risk management practices on the inter-company balances.

                                    For loans and advances that are repayable on demand, impairment loss is assessed
                                    based on the assumption that repayment of the outstanding balances is demanded
                                    at the reporting date. If the subsidiary does not have sufficient highly liquid resources
                                    when the loans and advances are demanded, the Company will consider the
                                    expected manner of recovery to measure the impairment loss; the recovery manner
                                    could be either through ‘repayable over time’ or a fire sale of less liquid assets by the
                                    subsidiary.

                                    For loans and advances that are not repayable on demand, impairment loss is
                                    measured on either 12-month expected credit losses or lifetime expected credit
                                    losses, by considering the likelihood that the receivable would not be able to repay
                                    during the contractual period (probability of default, PD), the percentage of contractual
                                    cash flows that will not be collected if default happens (loss given default, LGD) and
                                    the outstanding amount that is exposed to default risk (exposure at default, EAD).

                                    In deriving the PD and LGD, the Group considers the receivable’s past payment
                                    status and its financial condition as at the reporting date. The PD is adjusted to
                                    reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting
                                    the ability of the receivable to settle its debts.

                                    Allowance for Impairment Losses

                                    At the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amount owing is
                                    not recoverable. Based on the assessment performed, the identified impairment loss
                                    was immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.

                                                                                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 125
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

(iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

Financial Guarantee Contracts

All of the financial guarantee contracts are considered to be performing, have low risks
of default and historically there were no instances where these financial guarantee
contracts were called upon by the parties of which the financial guarantee contracts
were issued to. Accordingly, no loss allowances were identified based on 12-month
expected credit losses.

(c) Liquidity Risk

Liquidity risk arises mainly from general funding and business activities. The Group
practises prudent risk management by maintaining sufficient cash and bank balances and
the availability of funding through certain committed credit facilities.

Maturity Analysis

The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of
the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest
payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
of the reporting period):-

                          Effective               Contractual
                          Interest
                                          Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
                            Rate
                              %           Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years

The Group                                 RM'000  RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000

2022

Non-derivative Financial

Liabilities

Trade payables                         -  20,538  20,538 20,538       -        -

Other payables and                         7,103
                                          13,321
accruals                               -  15,358   7,103       7,103        -        -
                                                  14,106       5,973  8,021      112
Lease liabilities         1.08 - 6.38             17,838       3,023  7,565    7,250

Term loans                3.17 - 5.00                                          7,362

                                          56,320  59,585 36,637 15,586

126 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of
the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest
payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
of the reporting period) (Cont’d):-

                             Effective            Contractual
                             Interest
                                          Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
                               Rate
                                 %        Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years

The Group                                 RM'000  RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000

2021

Non-derivative Financial

Liabilities

Trade payables                         -  14,892  14,892 14,892       -      -

Other payables and                         5,158
                                          17,441
accruals                               -  25,627   5,158       5,158  -      -
                                                  18,638
Lease liabilities            1.08 - 6.52          33,714       8,456 10,182  -

Term loans                   3.17 - 5.39                       3,761 12,680 17,273

                                          63,118  72,402 32,267 22,862 17,273

             [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of
the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest
payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
of the reporting period) (Cont’d):-

The Company                                                Effective  Carrying     Contractual   Within
                                                           Interest   Amount    Undiscounted     1 Year
2022                                                                   RM'000                   RM'000
                                                             Rate                 Cash Flows
Non-derivative Financial Liability                             %                        RM'000
Other payables and accruals
Financial guarantee contract in relation                   -          286       286 286

 to corporate guarantee given to                           -          -         15,359 15,359
 subsidiaries ^

                                                                      286       15,645 15,645

2021                                                       -          109       109 109

Non-derivative Financial Liabilities                       -          *         *               *
Other payables and accruals
Amount owing to a subsidiary

                                                                      109       109 109

*                         Denotes amount less than RM500.

^                         The contractual undiscounted cash flows represent the outstanding credit facilities

                          of the subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period. The financial guarantees

                          had not been recognised in the financial statements since their fair value on initial

                          recognition were not material.

128 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
           33.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to maintain
an optimal capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholders value.
To achieve this objective, the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of
changes in economic conditions, such as adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning
of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.

The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants
and regulatory, if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity.
The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings from financial institutions less cash
and cash equivalents. Capital includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent and
non-controlling interests. The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period
was as follows:-

                                                     The Group

                                                     2022       2021

                                                     RM'000     RM'000

Lease liabilities (Note 16)                          13,321     17,441
Term loans (Note 17)                                 15,358     25,627

Less: Cash and bank balances                         28,679     43,068
Net debt                                             (20,118)   (17,185)
Total equity
Debt-to-equity ratio                                   8,561    25,883

                                                     81,871     72,271

                                                         10%        36%

There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                     ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 129
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

3333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                         The Group             The Company

                                         2022       2021       2022       2021

                                         RM'000     RM'000     RM'000     RM'000

Financial Assets

Amortised Cost

Amount owing by subsidiaries (Note 8)            -          -  11,137     12,086
Trade receivables (Note 12)               9,459      7,681             -          -
Other receivables (Note 13)                                            -          -
Cash and bank balances                       124         33
                                         20,118     17,185     11,546     10,318

                                         29,701     24,899     22,683     22,404

Financial Liabilities

Amortised Cost

Term loans (Note 17)                     15,358     25,627     -            -

Trade payables (Note 20)                 20,538     14,892     -            -

Other payables and accruals (Note 21)    7,103      5,158      286          109

Amount owing to a subsidiary (Note 22)   -          -          -            *

                                         42,999     45,677     286          109

*  Denotes amount less than RM500.

33.4 GAINS OR LOSSES ARISING FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                         The Group             The Company

                                         2022       2021       2022       2021

                                         RM'000     RM'000     RM'000     RM'000

Financial Assets

Amortised Cost                           196        150        557          589
Net gains recognised in profit or loss

Financial Liabilities

Amortised Cost

Net losses recognised in profit or loss  (802)      (1,076)    -            -

130 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 MARCH 2022

333.. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

33.5 FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and of the Company
which are maturing within the next 12 months approximated their carrying amounts due to the
relatively short-term maturity of the financial instruments or repayable on demand terms.

As the Group does not have any financial instruments carried at fair value, the following table sets
out only the fair value profile of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value at the end of
the reporting period:-

                     Fair Value of Financial Instruments not

                             Carried at Fair Value                        Total Fair  Carrying
                                                                               Value   Amount
                             Level 1     Level 2    Level 3                   RM'000    RM'000

                             RM'000      RM'000     RM'000

The Group

2022                                  -  15,358     -                     15,358      15,358

Financial Liability
Term loans

2021                                  -  25,627     -                     25,627      25,627

Financial Liability
Term loans

Fair Value of Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value

The fair value of the Group’s term loans that carry floating interest rates approximated their
carrying amounts as they are repriced to market interest rates on or near the reporting date.

                     [The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]

                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 131
LIST OF PROPERTIES

AS AT 31 MARCH 2022

       Address of   Description       Tenure/       Land     Approximate    Net Book    Date of last
No. property        of property/      Date of       area/      age of the  Value as at  revaluation/
                    Existing use      expiring    Built-up     buildings    31/3/2022
                                      of lease       area        (Years)    (RM’000)       Date of
                                      Freehold     (Sq ft)                              acquisition*

1. PTD 162517, No.  1 1/2 storey      Freehold     152,385/  25            15,357       13/4/2016
                                                   165,962
5 & 5A, Jalan       factory with      Freehold

Selatan 8, Taman a warehouse          Freehold

Perindustrian       and office       Leasehold
                                     of 99 years
Ringan Pulai, 81200 annexed to       expiring in
                                      14.5.2085
Johor Bahru, Johor a 3-storey

                    factory with

                    warehouse

                    and office

                    and a 4-storey

                    factory

                    building /

                    Warehouse,

                    office and

                    production

2. PTD 64574, No.   2-storey                      1,302/     27            139          16/10/2014

62, Jalan Bukit     terrace house                 1,571

Kempas 5/1, Taman / Hostel

Bukit Kempas,

81200 Johor Bahru,

Johor

3. PTD 64573, No.   2-storey                      1,300/     27            139          1/5/1995*

64, Jalan Bukit     terrace house                 1,571

Kempas 5/1, Taman / Hostel

Bukit Kempas,

81200 Johor Bahru,

Johor

4. Lot 18696 (PT6123), 1 1/2 storey               321,292/   6             23,068       30/4/2016

Jalan Techvalley    factory with                  74,880

1, Kawasan          a warehouse

Perindustrian       annexed to a

Sendayan            2-storey office

Techvalley, Bandar / Warehouse,

Sri Sendayan, 71950 office and

Seremban, Negeri production

Sembilan

5. No. 6, Jalan Niaga 2-storey                    1,540/     33            498          19/11/2004

2, Bandar Baru      shophouse                     2,460

Kota Tinggi, 81900 / Ground

Kota Tinggi, Johor Floor - Outlet

                    operation

                    First floor -

                    Rent to KS Tan

                    Properties Sdn

                    Bhd

132 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 6 JULY 2022

Number of Shares Issued :  405,823,900
                           One vote for one ordinary share
Voting rights        :     2,603

No. of Shareholders  :

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

CATEGORY                                      NO. OF                 %      NO. OF            %
Less than 100                             HOLDERS                 0.15     SHARES          0.00
100 - 1,000                                                     17.94                      0.05
1,001 - 10,000                                          4       41.34              100     1.53
10,001 - 100,000                                     467        33.62         211,200      7.71
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares          1,076           6.84     6,218,000     42.92
5% and above of issued shares                        875          0.11   31,295,200      47.79
Total                                                178       100.00   174,173,040     100.00
                                                                        193,926,360
                                                        3               405,823,900
                                                  2,603

                                                               SHAREHOLDINGS

                                            Direct                      Deemed
                                          Interest
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS                                       %        interest        %
1. TAN KIM SENG
2. TAN KIM CHAI                           99,040,780           24.40 3,936,620 (a)      0.97

                                          98,885,580           24.37 2,291,620 (b)      0.56

                                                               SHAREHOLDINGS

                                            Direct                      Deemed
                                          Interest
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS                                       %        interest        %
1. TAN KIM SENG
2. TAN KIM CHAI                           99,040,780           24.40 3,936,620 (a)      0.97
3. TAN YON HAW
4. TAN KEE JIN                            98,885,580           24.37 2,291,620 (b)      0.56
5. DR. LIM PANG KIAM
6. PHANG SZE FUI                          19,116,970           4.71           -         -
7. DATO’ ALBERT DING CHOO EARN
                                          1,131,800            0.28           -         -

                                                            -  -              -         -

                                                            -  -              -         -

                                          70,000               0.02           -         -

Note:

(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interests in SDS Tan Properties Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies
      Act 2016 (“the Act”) and of his children, Tan Kee Meng’s and Tan Xin Ee’s direct shareholdings in the Company pursuant to
      Section 59(11)(c) of the Act.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interests in SDS Tan Properties Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Act.

                                                                                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 133
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 6 JULY 2022

THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                    NO. OF SHARES               %
                                                                               96,885,580   23.88
 NO. NAME OF SHAREHOLDER                                                       74,040,780   18.24
                                                                               23,000,000
1. TAN KIM CHAI                                                                              5.67
2. TAN KIM SENG                                                                19,116,970
3. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                                   18,914,760    4.71
                                                                                             4.66
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KIM SENG (7003782)                 18,753,470
4. TAN YON HAW                                                                 18,599,360    4.62
5. TAN YONG THYE                                                               18,053,360    4.58
                                                                                             4.45
6. TEOU CHAU HOYK                                                                5,800,000   1.43
7. TAN YONG PING
8. TAN YONG HERNG                                                   4,250,000               1.05
9. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
                                                                    2,900,000               0.71
         CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD FOR KENANGA SHARIAH GROWTH
         OPPORTUNITIES FUND (50156 TR01)                            2,291,620               0.56
10. CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
         PLEDED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WONG CHEE KUAN (MY3341)      2,000,000               0.49
11. TAN KIM LEAN
                                                                    2,000,000               0.49
12. SDS TAN PROPERTIES SDN. BHD.
                                                                    1,964,000               0.48
13. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KIM CHAI (7005859)      1,494,400               0.37

14. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                              1,395,000               0.34
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KIM SENG (E-TSA/MSI)
                                                                    1,334,900               0.33
15. LOUISA CHIA SOOK PHEI
16. YAP FEI YUN                                                     1,300,000               0.32
17. TAN XIN EE
18. WONG CHIN NGIM                                                  1,300,000               0.32
19. ANG BOON GUAN
20. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                             1,152,000               0.28

         YAU YOKE LAN                                               1,131,800               0.28
21. CHIA SOOK MEI
22. TAN KEE JIN                                                     1,130,000               0.28
23. HAN SING SHU
24. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (ASING) SDN BHD                           1,063,300               0.26

         THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON FOR ENSIGN PEAK ADVISORS INC.  1,017,700               0.25
25. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (ASING) SDN BHD
                                                                         920,000             0.23
         THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON FOR ACADIAN EMERGING MARKETS        916,900             0.23
         MICRO-CAP EQUITY MASTER FUND                                    915,000             0.23
26. LIM HAN KONG                                                         836,000             0.21
27. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                                   805,000             0.20
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HENG SUE KHE (E-BPT/EDU)
28. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                              325,281,900             80.15
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR PANG CHING (E-TSA)
29. HLIB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
         PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR NG CHEE SIONG
30. KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
         RAKUTEN TRADE SDN BHD FOR CHIA HOCK SENG

         TOTAL

134 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                      SDS GROUP BERHAD

NOTICE OF
5TH ANNUAL GENERAL SDS GROUP BERHAD MEETING

                                                        Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)
                                                                  (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                      NOTICE OF 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 5th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of SDS Group Berhad will be held
and conducted on a fully virtual basis entirely through live steaming and online remote voting using Remote
Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities on Friday, 26 August 2022 at 10.00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof
for the following purposes:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March              (Refer to
       2022 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.                 Explanatory

                                                                                                     Note 1)

2. To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees to the Non-Executive Directors of the RESOLUTION 1
        Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022.

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ Benefit up to an amount of RM25,000 for the RESOLUTION 2
        period from the conclusion of the 5th AGM of the Company scheduled on 26 August
        2022 until the date of the 6th AGM of the Company.

4. To re-elect the following Directors, who retire in accordance with Article 18.2 of the
        Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:

(i)     Mr. Tan Kim Chai                                                                     RESOLUTION 3
                                                                                             RESOLUTION 4
(ii) Dr. Lim Pang Kiam                                                                       RESOLUTION 5

 5. To re-appoint Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT (LLP0018817-LCA & AF 1018) as Auditors of
         the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions:                          RESOLUTION 6
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION - AUTHORITY UNDER SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE

        COMPANIES ACT 2016 FOR THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES

“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of
the Company, the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), the Directors be and are
hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to issue and allot shares in the Company,
at any time to such persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion, deem
fit, provided always that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to this
resolution does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total number of issued
shares of the Company for the time being to be utilised until 31 December 2022 as
empowered by Bursa Securities pursuant to its letter dated 23 December 2021
granting an extension for the additional temporary relief measures to listed issuers
and thereafter, does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of issued
shares of the Company for the time being as stipulated under Rule 6.04(1) of the
Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities (“hereinafter referred to as “General
Mandate”);

AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are also empowered to obtain
the approval for the listing of and quotation on Bursa Securities for the additional
shares so issued pursuant to the General Mandate;

                                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 135
NOTICE OF
5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        AND FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the                   RESOLUTION 7
        passing of this Ordinary Resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion
        of the next AGM of the Company.”

7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’
        MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE
        OR TRADING NATURE

“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiary (“Group”)
to enter into and give effect to the recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue or trading nature particulars with the specified classes of related parties
as specified in Section 2.6 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 July 2022,
provided that:

(a) such arrangements and/or transactions are necessary for the Group’s day-
        to-day operations;

(b) such arrangements and/or transactions undertaken are in the ordinary
        course of business, at arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms
        which are not more favourable to the related parties than those generally
        available to third party;

(c) such arrangements and/or transactions are not detrimental to the minority
        shareholders of the Company; and

(d) the disclosure is made in the annual report on the aggregate value of
        transactions conducted pursuant to the shareholders’ mandate during the
        financial year in relation to:

(i) the related transacting parties and their respective relationship with
         the Company; and

(ii) the nature of the recurrent transactions.

THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until:

(a) the conclusion of the next AGM, unless the authority is renewed by a
        resolution passed at the next AGM; or

(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM is required to be held
        pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but will not extend to such extension
        as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or

(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general
        meeting,

whichever is the earlier.

             AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such
             acts and things (including executing such documents as may be required) to give
             effect to the transactions contemplated and/or authorised by this Ordinary
             Resolution.”

     8. SPECIAL RESOLUTION - PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE COMPANY’S RESOLUTION 8
             CONSTITUTION TO FACILITATE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROPOSED
             TRANSFER OF THE LISTING AND QUOTATION FOR THE ENTIRE ISSUED SHARE
             CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY FROM ACE MARKET TO THE MAIN MARKET OF
             BURSA SECURITIES (“PROPOSED TRANSFER”) (“PROPOSED AMENDMENT”)

136 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
             “THAT the Proposed Amendment to the Constitution of the Company as set out
             in the Appendix A which is circulated together with the Notice of 5th AGM dated
             29 July 2022, be and is hereby approved with immediate effect to facilitate the
             implementation of the Proposed Transfer.
    as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or

    (c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general
            meeting,
                                                                                                                                                SDS GROUP BERHAD

    whichever is the earlier.

NOTICE OF AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such      RESOLUTION 8
              acts and things (including executing such documents as may be required) to give

              effect to the transactions contemplated and/or authorised by this Ordinary

5TH ANNUAL Resolution.” GENERAL MEETING
     8. SPECIAL RESOLUTION - PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE COMPANY’S
              CONSTITUTION TO FACILITATE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROPOSED
              TRANSFER OF THE LISTING AND QUOTATION FOR THE ENTIRE ISSUED SHARE
              CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY FROM ACE MARKET TO THE MAIN MARKET OF
              BURSA SECURITIES (“PROPOSED TRANSFER”) (“PROPOSED AMENDMENT”)

    “THAT the Proposed Amendment to the Constitution of the Company as set out
    in the Appendix A which is circulated together with the Notice of 5th AGM dated
    29 July 2022, be and is hereby approved with immediate effect to facilitate the
    implementation of the Proposed Transfer.

    AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to assent
    to any modifications, variations and/or amendments as may be required by the
    relevant authorities and to do all acts and things and take all steps as may be
    considered necessary to give full effect to the Proposed Amendment.”

    9. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.

BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
SIEW SUET WEI (MAICSA 7011254)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008001690
LIM YEN TENG (LS0010182)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 201908000028
Company Secretaries

Kuala Lumpur
Date: 29 July 2022

NOTES:

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors
         on 19 August 2022 (General Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to attend the meeting
         or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and/or vote on his behalf.

2. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy
         or proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
         There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.

3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy but not more than two (2) proxies, the
         appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented
         by each proxy.

4. Where a member is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company
         for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the
         Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there shall be no limit to the number of proxies
         which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his
         attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under its Common
         Seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.

6. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies and the power of attorney or other authority (if any)
         under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited
         at the Poll Administrator’s office of the Company at 2-1, Jalan Sri Hartamas 8, Sri Hartamas, 50480
         Kuala Lumpur or email to ir@shareworks.com.my not less than 48 hours before the time appointed
         for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A(1) of the Listing Requirements, voting at the AGM of the Company will be
         conducted by poll. Poll Administrator and Independent Scrutineers will be appointed respectively
         to conduct the polling/e-voting process and to verify the results of the poll.

EXPLANATORY NOTES

1.  Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 31 March 2022

    Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as under the provisions of Section 340(1)(a) of the
    Companies Act 2016, the audited financial statements do not require the approval of the
    shareholders. As such, this matter will not be put forward for voting.

2. Ordinary Resolution 1 & 2: Payment of Directors’ Fees & Benefits                ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 137

    Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the shareholders’ approval is sought for the
    proposed payment of Directors’ Fees for financial year ended 31 March 2022 and Benefits to the
    Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) for the period from 26 August 2022 until the conclusion of the
             under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited
             at the Poll Administrator’s office of the Company at 2-1, Jalan Sri Hartamas 8, Sri Hartamas, 50480
             Kuala Lumpur or email to ir@shareworks.com.my not less than 48 hours before the time appointed
             for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
   7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A(1) of the Listing Requirements, voting at the AGM of the Company will be
             conducted by poll. Poll Administrator and Independent Scrutineers will be appointed respectively
             to conduct the polling/e-voting process and to verify the results of the poll.

NOTICE OF

5TH ANNUAL EXPLANATORY NOTES GENERAL MEETING
1.  Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 31 March 2022

         Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as under the provisions of Section 340(1)(a) of the
         Companies Act 2016, the audited financial statements do not require the approval of the
         shareholders. As such, this matter will not be put forward for voting.

2. Ordinary Resolution 1 & 2: Payment of Directors’ Fees & Benefits

         Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the shareholders’ approval is sought for the
         proposed payment of Directors’ Fees for financial year ended 31 March 2022 and Benefits to the
         Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) for the period from 26 August 2022 until the conclusion of the
         next AGM of the Company. The calculation of the benefits which include meeting allowance is
         based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’
         meetings and on the assumption that the number of NEDs in office until the next AGM remains
         the same.

3. Ordinary Resolution 3 and 4: Re-election of Directors

    Article 18.2 of the Company’s Constitution provides that an election of Directors shall take place
    each year at the AGM of the Company where one third (1/3) of the Directors for the time being or if
    their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one third (1/3)
    shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election. PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT all Directors shall
    retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. Hence,
    two (2) out of seven (7) Directors are to retire in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Constitution.

         The Board through its Nominating and Remuneration Committee had assessed the Directors and
         agreed that they meet the criteria as prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the Listing Requirements of Bursa
         Securities on character, experience, integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their
         roles as Directors. Mr. Tan Kim Chai and Dr. Lim Pang Kiam are standing for re-election as
         Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election. The
         proﬁles of the Directors standing for re-election are set out in the Annual Report 2022.

4. Ordinary Resolution 5: Re-appointment of Auditors

         The Board and Audit Committee had at their respective meetings on 27 May 2022 recommended
         the re-appointment of Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT for the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2023.
         Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT have met the criteria prescribed under the Rule 15.21 of the Listing
         Requirements and indicated their willingness to continue their services for the next ﬁnancial year.

5. Ordinary Resolution 6: Authority Under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the
         Directors to Issue and Allot Shares

    The proposed Resolution 6 is intended to renew the authority granted to the Directors of the

    Company at the 4th AGM of the Company held on 27 August 2021 to issue and allot shares at any

    time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a general meeting provided

    that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed:

    i.   twenty percent (20%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time

         being (for allotment and issuance until 31 December 2022 as empowered by Bursa

         Securities pursuant to Bursa Malaysia Berhad’s letter dated 23 December 2021 granting an

         extension of additional temporary relief measures to listed issuers); and

    ii.  ten percent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being

         (for issuance and allotment after 31 December 2022 as stipulated under Rule 6.04(1) of the

         Listing Requirements).

            The authority to issue shares granted by the members at the 4th AGM of the Company had not
            been utilised and hence, no proceeds were raised therefrom. The renewed authority to issue shares
            will enable the Directors to take swift action for allotment of shares for any possible fund-raising
            activities, including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future
            project(s), working capital and/ or acquisition(s) and to avoid delay and cost in convening general
            meetings to approve such issue of shares.

            At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 9 June 2022, the Company had received
            the approval of its shareholders for the special issue of up to 58,000,000 new ordinary shares in the
            Company (“Proposed Special Issue”), representing approximately 14.29% of the Company’s existing
138 | ANiNssUuAeLd RsEhPaOreRcTa2p0it2a2l to Bumiputera investors to be identiﬁed and/or approved by MITI. The
            Proposed Special Issue is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2022.

  6. Ordinary Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a general meeting provided

that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed:

i.   twenty percent (20%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time

     being (for allotment and issuance until 31 December 2022 as empowered by Bursa
     Securities pursuant to Bursa Malaysia Berhad’s letter dated 23 December 20S2D1 SgrGaRntOinUgPaBnERHAD

     extension of additional temporary relief measures to listed issuers); and

ii.  ten percent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being

NOTICE OF (for issuance and allotment after 31 December 2022 as stipulated under Rule 6.04(1) of the
                        Listing Requirements).

5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The authority to issue shares granted by the members at the 4th AGM of the Company had not

            been utilised and hence, no proceeds were raised therefrom. The renewed authority to issue shares
            will enable the Directors to take swift action for allotment of shares for any possible fund-raising
            activities, including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future
            project(s), working capital and/ or acquisition(s) and to avoid delay and cost in convening general
            meetings to approve such issue of shares.

         At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 9 June 2022, the Company had received
         the approval of its shareholders for the special issue of up to 58,000,000 new ordinary shares in the
         Company (“Proposed Special Issue”), representing approximately 14.29% of the Company’s existing
         issued share capital to Bumiputera investors to be identiﬁed and/or approved by MITI. The
         Proposed Special Issue is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2022.

6. Ordinary Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
         Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature

         The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will renew the authority for the Company and/or its
         subsidiary companies to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading
         nature are undertaken in the ordinary course of business which are necessary for the day-to-day
         operations on arm’s length basis, on normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to
         the related party than those generally available to the public and are not to the detrimental to the
         minority shareholders of the Company and shall lapse at the conclusion of the next AGM unless
         authority for its renewal is obtained from shareholders of the Company at the next general
         meeting. Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 July 2022 accompanying the Annual
         Report 2022.

7. Resolution 8: Proposed Amendment

The proposed Special Resolution, if passed, will facilitate the implementation of the proposed
transfer of the listing of and quotation for the entire issued share capital of the Company from the
ACE Market to the Main Market of Bursa Securities as announced by the Company on 28 July 2022.

                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 139
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF

5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

(Pursuant to Rule 8.29(2) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing

Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”))

           STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
           (Pursuant to Rule 8.29(2) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
           Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”))

1.  Details of individual who are standing for election as Directors (excluding Directors standing
    for re-election)

         No individual is seeking election as Director at the 5th AGM of the Company.
2. General mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Rule 6.04(1) of the Listing

         Requirements of Bursa Securities

    The Company will seek shareholders’ approval on the general meeting for issue of securities in
    accordance with Rule 6.04(3) of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities. Please refer to the
    Proposed Ordinary Resolution 6 as stated in Notice of 5th AGM of the Company for details.

APPENDIX A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE COMPANY
The existing Constitution of the Company is to be amended in the following manner:

    Article No.  Existing Clause                            Amended Clause
    2.1(a)
                 Listing Requirements means the Listing     Listing Requirements means the Listing
                 Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities  Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
                 Berhad for the ACE Market including any    Berhad for the ACE Market or Main Market
                 amendments to the Listing Requirements     including any amendments to the Listing
                 that may be made from time to time.        Requirements that may be made from time
                                                            to time.

140 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                                                                                                                                            SDS GROUP BERHAD

ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
FOR THE 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING (“5TH AGM”)

                                                            ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
                                   FOR THE 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“5TH AGM”)

Date                              : Friday, 26 August, 2022
Time                              : 10.00 a.m.
Meeting Platform                  : Online Meeting Platform operated by Mlabs Research Sdn. Bhd. at

                                      https://rebrand.ly/SDS-AGM

MODE OF MEETING

In view of the Covid-19 outbreak and as part of the safety measures, the 5th AGM will be conducted on
a fully virtual basis through live streaming. Shareholders will have to register to attend the 5th AGM
remotely by using the Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) Facilities, the details as set out below.

RPV  The 5th AGM will be conducted entirely through live streaming and online remote voting.
1.   Should you wish to attend the 5th AGM, you will be required to do so by registering yourself
     using the RPV Platform in accordance with the instructions set out under Section 4 below.
     With the RPV Platform, you may exercise your rights as a Shareholder to
     participate (including to pose questions to the Board of Directors (“Board”)) and vote at the 5th
     AGM.

2.   If a shareholder is unable to attend the 5th AGM, he/she is encouraged to appoint the

     Chairman of the meeting as his/her proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Proxy

     Form in accordance with the notes and instructions printed therein.

3.   For proxies or corporate representatives/ authorised nominees/ exempt authorised nominees

     who wishes to use the RPV Platform at the 5th AGM, please ensure the dulyexecuted proxy

     forms or the original certiﬁcate of appointment of its corporate representative are deposited

     at the Poll Administrator’s ofﬁce of the Company at 2-1, Jalan Sri Hartamas 8, Sri Hartamas,

     50480 Kuala Lumpur or email to ir@shareworks.com.my not less than 48 hours before the

     time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

4.   The procedures for the RPV in respect of the live streaming and remote voting at the 5th AGM

     is as follows:

PPrroocceedduurerses              AcAtciotinon

BBeefoforereAAGGMM

11. . ReRgeigsitsetrerasas • • UUssiningg youyrocuormpuctoemr, apcucteesrs,thearcegceisstsratiotnhweebsirteegaitshtrtatptiso:/n/rebrawnedb.lsy/itSeDS-AaGtM.
     papratrictiicpiapnant tinin  hItftyposu://arreeburasnindg.lm y/SoDbiSle-AdGevMic. eIsf,yyoouu acraenuaslsinogscmanotbhileeQdRevciocdees,pyroouvidceadn oanlsothe
     ViVrtirutaulaAl AGGMM        slceaftntothaeccQesRs cthoedreegpirsotrvaidtioend poangteh. e left to access the registration page.
                                  • • CClilcickkoonntthheeRReeggiisstteerr lliinnkkttoorreeggisisteterrfofor rththeeAAGGMMsessessiosnio.n.

                                  • • UUppoonnssuubbmmiissssiioonn oof your reeggiissttrraattiioonn, ,yyoouuwwililllrerececievieveananememailainl ontoiftyiifnyginygou

                                  ytohuathyaotuyr oreugrirsetrgaitsitornathioans bheaesnbreeecneivredceaivneddisapnednidsinpgenvderiniﬁgcavteiorinﬁ.cation.

                                  • • TThheeeevveennttisisppoowweerred by Ciscoo WWeebbeexx. .YYoouuaarerererecocm ommmenedneddedtotdoodwonwlonalodaadnd

                                  ainndstianllsCtaisllcCoiW sceobWexeMbeexetMinegesti(navgasil(aabvlaeilfaobr lPeCfo, Mr PacC,, AMnadcr,oAidnadnrodidiOaSn).dRieOfeSr).to
                                  Rtehfeertutototrhiael gtuutidoeriaplogsuteiddeonpothsteesdaomnetphaegseafmoreapssaigsteanfocrea. ssistance.

2. Submit your • Shareholders who wish to participate and vote remotely at the AGM via

     online                       RPV Facilities are required to register prior to the meeting. The registration

     registration                 will be open from 29 July 2022 on 6:00p.m. and the registration will close at

                                  25 August 2022 on 10:00a.m.

                                  • Clicking on the link mentioned in item 1 will redirect you to the AGM event

                                  page. Click on the Register link for the online registration form.

                                  • Complete your particulars in the registration page. Your name MUST

                                  match your CDS account name (not applicable for proxy).

                                  • Insert your CDS account number(s) and indicate the nAuNmNbUeArLoRf EshPaOrReTs y2o0u22 | 141

                                  hold.

                                  • Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and conﬁrm the Declarations.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
FOR THE 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
("5TH AGM")

2.  Submit your    • Shareholders who wish to participate and vote remotely at the AGM via RPV
                       Facilities are required to register prior to the meeting. The registration will be
    online             open from 29 July 2022 on 6:00p.m. and the registration will close at 25 August
                       2022 on 10:00a.m.
    registration
                   • Clicking on the link mentioned in item 1 will redirect you to the AGM event page.
On the day of AGM      Click on the Register link for the online registration form.

3.  Attending      • Complete your particulars in the registration page. Your name MUST match
                       your CDS account name (not applicable for proxy).
    Virtual AGM
                   • Insert your CDS account number(s) and indicate the number of shares you hold.
4.  Participate    • Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and conﬁrm the Declarations.
                   • Please ensure all information given is accurate before you click Submit to
    with live
                       register your remote participation. Failure to do so will result in your registration
    video              being rejected.
                   • System will send an email to notify that your registration for remote participation
5.  Online             is received and will be veriﬁed.
                   • Upon system veriﬁcation against the General Meeting Record of Depositories
    Remote             as at 19 August 2022, you will receive an email from Mlabs Research Sdn. Bhd.
                       approving your registration for remote participation together with the Meeting
    Voting             ID and your remote access user ID and password. You will also be notiﬁed in the
                       event your registration is rejected.
6.  End of         • If your registration is rejected, you can contact the Company’s Poll Administrator
                       or the Company for clariﬁcations or to appeal.
    remote
                   • Two reminder emails will be sent to your inbox. First is one day before the AGM
                       Day, while the second email will be sent 1 hour before the AGM session.

                   • Click Join Event in the reminder email to participate the RPV.

                   • You will be given a short brief about the system.
                   • Your microphone is muted throughout the whole session.
                   • If you have any questions for the Chairman/Board, you may use the Q&A panel

                       to send your questions. The Chairman/Board will try to respond to relevant
                       questions if time permits. All relevant questions will be collected throughout
                       the session and replied later through your registered email.
                   • The session will be recorded.
                   • Take note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth
                       and stability of the internet connection at your location.

                   • The Chairman will announce the commencement of the Voting session and the
                       duration allowed at the respective AGM.

                   • The list of resolutions for voting will appear at the right-hand side of your
                       computer screen. You are required to indicate your votes for the resolutions
                       within the given stipulated time frame.

                   • Click on the Submit button when you have completed.
                   • Votes cannot be changed once it is submitted.

                   Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the closure of the AGM, the
                   live session will end.

    participation

142 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
                      • The session will be recorded.
                      • Take note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the

                            bandwidth and stability of the internet connection at your location.

                                                                                    SDS GROUP BERHAD

5. Online             • The Chairman will announce the commencement of the Voting session

       Remote         and the duration allowed at the respective AGM.

ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE Voting
                      • The list of resolutions for voting will appear at the right-hand side of your
                           computer screen. You are required to indicate your votes for the resolutions

                      within the given stipulated time frame.

FOR THE 5TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING • Click on the Submit button when you have completed.
                                   • Votes cannot be changed once it is submitted.

("5TH AGM") 6. End of
                      Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the closure of the AGM, the live

       remote         session will end.

       participation

POLL VOTING

The voting at the 5th AGM will be conducted by poll in accordance with Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”). The Company has
appointed ShareWorks Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of electronic means
and SharePolls Sdn Bhd as Scrutineers to verify the poll results.

Shareholders can proceed to vote on the resolutions before the end of the voting session which will
be announced by the Chairman of the Meeting. The Scrutineers will verify and announce the poll
results followed by the Chairman’s declaration whether the resolution is duly passed or otherwise.

The results of the voting for all resolutions will be announced at the 5th AGM and on Bursa Securities
website at www.bursamalaysia.com.

NO RECORDING OR PHOTOGRAPHY

Strictly NO recording or photography of the proceedings of the 5th AGM is allowed.
NO E-VOUCHER, GIFT AND FOOD VOUCHER

There will be no e-Voucher, gift, or food voucher for shareholders, proxies and corporate
representatives who participate in the meeting.

ENQUIRY

If you have any enquiry prior to the meeting, please contact the following officers during office hours
(from 9.00 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. (Monday to Friday)):

For registration, logging in and system related:

Mlabs Research Sdn. Bhd.

Name           : Ms. Eris/ Ms. Jey/ Mr. Hong

Telephone No. : 03-7688 1013

Email          : vgm@mlabs.com

For Proxy and other matters:

ShareWorks Sdn Bhd

Name           : Mr. Vemalan Naraynan/ Mr. Kou Si Qiang

Telephone No. : 03-6201 1120

Email          : ir@shareworks.com.my

                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 143
                                                                                                      PROXY FORM

SDS GROUP BERHAD                                       No. of shares held   Proxy 1                        Proxy 2

Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)              CDS Account No.

(Incorporated in Malaysia)                             No. of shares to be
                                                       represented by each
                                                       proxy

I/We __________________________________________________________________________ of _________________________being a
member of SDS GROUP BERHAD, hereby appoint:

(1) Mr/Ms ____________________________________________________ (NRIC No. __________________________________) OR failing

whom, Mr/Ms ____________________________________________________ (NRIC No. _______________________________)
(the next name and address should be completed where it is desired to appoint two proxies)

*(2) Mr/Ms ____________________________________________________ (NRIC No. __________________________________) failing

whom, Mr/Ms ____________________________________________________ (NRIC No. __________________________________)

or failing him/her, the CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING, as *my/our proxy, to vote for *me/us and on *my/our behalf at the 5th
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held and conducted on a fully virtual basis entirely through live
steaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities on Friday, 26 August 2022 at
10.00 a.m. and, at every adjournment thereof *for/against the resolutions to be proposed thereat.

Please indicate with a cross (X) in the space whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolution. In the
absence of such specific directions, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.

                                                                                                      FOR  AGAINST

RESOLUTION 1 To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees for the financial year ended 31
                        March 2022.

RESOLUTION 2 To approve the payment of Directors’ Benefit up to an amount of RM25,000
                        for the period from the conclusion of the 5th AGM of the Company scheduled
                        on 26 August 2022 until the date of the 6th AGM of the Company.

RESOLUTION 3 To re-elect Mr. Tan Kim Chai who retires pursuant to Article 18.2 of the
                        Company’s Constitution.

RESOLUTION 4 To re-elect Dr. Lim Pang Kiam who retires pursuant to Article 18.2 of the
                        Company’s Constitution.

RESOLUTION 5 To re-appoint Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT as Auditors and to authorise the
                        Directors to fix their remuneration.

RESOLUTION 6 Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors
                        to issue and allot shares.

RESOLUTION 7 Proposed renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
                        Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature.

RESOLUTION 8 Proposed amendment to the Company’s Constitution to facilitate the
                        implementation of the proposed transfer of the listing and quotation for the
                        entire issued share capital of the Company from ACE Market to the Main
                        Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

Dated this ___________ day of __________________ 2020

                                                                                 ___________________________________
                                                                            Signature(s)/Common Seal of Member
NOTES: -                                                                         5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear                of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the
                                                                                      appointor is a corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by
     on the Record of Depositors on 19 August 2022 (General Meeting                   an officer or attorney so authorised.
     Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to attend the meeting or appoint
     proxy(ies) to attend and/or vote on his behalf.                             6. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies and the power of attorney
2. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting                 or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially
     is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote in his stead.       certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the Poll
     A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company. There shall be              Administrator’s office of the Company at 2-1, Jalan Sri Hartamas 8, Sri
     no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.                             Hartamas, 50480 Kuala Lumpur or email to ir@shareworks.com.my not
3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy but not more than                  less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting
     two (2) proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies           or any adjournment thereof.
     the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds
     ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
     securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities
     Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there shall be no limit to
     the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may
     appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

Then fold here

“FIFTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING”                                                   AFFIX
                                                                                 STAMP
            THE POLL ADMINISTRATOR
            SDS GROUP BERHAD Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)
            2-1, Jalan Sri Hartamas 8,
            Sri Hartamas,
            50480 Kuala Lumpur.

1st fold here
Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)

Our subsidiaries:

5, Jalan Selatan 8 (Off Jalan Kempas Lama),
Kawasan Perusahaan Ringan Pulai,
81200 Johor Bahru, Johor.

t +607 288 8305
f +607 556 7116
w www.sdsgroups.com

@sdsgroups  sdsgroups
