ANNUAL REPORT 2020
CARLSBERG BREWERY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

SUSTAINING TODAY FOR                          OUR HIGHLIGHTS                                                   25%
A BETTER TOMORROW                                                                                         Ownership
                                            2 Carlsberg Malaysia Group at a Glance                       Lion Brewery
COVID-19 had severely impacted us, the      4 Our Portfolio of Brands                                    (Ceylon) PLC
way we lived, worked and engaged with       6 2020 Highlights
our stakeholders in 2020.                                                                                     100%
                                              STATEMENTS FROM OUR LEADERSHIP                              Ownership
Amid these turbulent times, Carlsberg                                                                Carlsberg Singapore
Malaysia Group remained guided by our       20 Chairman’s Address
global purpose of Brewing for a Better      24 Managing Director’s Message and Management                    Pte. Ltd.
Today and Tomorrow as we rallied and
implemented ways to navigate through                Discussion & Analysis                                      51%
the storm.                                                                                                Ownership
                                              SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
We stepped up with extraordinary                                                                            MayBev
efforts for consumers, customers and        40 Overview, Governance, Scope and Recognition                   Pte. Ltd.
communities – collectively named “Safer     43 Strategies, Priorities and Materiality Assessment
Together” – by providing peace of mind      48 Brewing Economic Growth                              2020
and a measure of stability as businesses    50 ZERO Carbon Footprint                                Highlights
and society adapted to the new normal.      54 ZERO Water Waste                                     Please refer to
                                            56 ZERO Irresponsible Drinking                          page 6
We stayed focused, agile and resilient in   62 ZERO Accidents Culture
optimising our business and costs while     68 Committing Towards a Responsible Business
placing top priority on our people.
                                              OUR LEADERS
As we set sights on eventual recovery, we
will continue to build on our foundation    78 Management Team
for business sustainability in order to     80 Management Team Profiles
‘Sustain Today for a Better Tomorrow’.      82 Directors' Profiles

                             Scan for the     GOVERNANCE
                             full video of
                             Who We Are     86 Corporate Governance Overview Statement
                                            100 Statement on Risk Management & Internal Control
                                            102 Audit Committee & Risk Management

                                                    Committee Report
                                            107 Responsibility Statement by the Board of Directors

                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                            108 Financial Statements

                                              OTHER INFORMATION

                                            196 Carlsberg Malaysia’s Sales Offices
                                            197 Particulars of Group Properties
                                            198 Analysis of Shareholdings
                                            200 Material Contracts
                                            201 List of Recurrent Related Party Transactions
                                            203 Corporate Information
                                            204 Notice of Annual General Meeting

                                               * Proxy Form

                                                           The cover of this report is printed on
                                                           environmentally friendly paper.
                                                                                                 Annual Report 2020

                                                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

                           100%        Sustainability Statement
                       Ownership                Please refer to page 40
                  Carlsberg Marketing
                                             Managing Director’s
                         Sdn. Bhd.                      Message and
                                                        Management
         Carlsberg                                       Discussion &
Malaysia Group                                                 Analysis
                                                            Please refer to
      at a Glance                                                    page 24
      Please refer to

                 page 2

                                       Financial Statements
                                        Please refer to page 108
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                              Annual Report 2020

CARLSBERG MALAYSIA GROUP
AT A GLANCE

ESTABLISHED IN 1969, CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(CARLSBERG MALAYSIA GROUP / THE GROUP) IS PART OF
CARLSBERG BREWERIES A/S (THE CARLSBERG GROUP), ONE OF THE
WORLD’S LEADING BREWERS WITH STRONG MARKET POSITIONS
ACROSS ASIA AND EUROPE.

We are a dynamic brewer with operations   REVENUE:
in Malaysia and Singapore, with stakes
in a brewery in Sri Lanka. We also have   RM1.79 bil
a regional presence via exports and
intercompany sales to regional markets     in 2020 vs. RM2.26 bil in 2019
such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, Cambodia
and Laos.

Our flagship brand Carlsberg Danish          NET PROFIT*:
Pilsner is complemented by innovative
brews such as Carlsberg Smooth Draught     RM162.2 mil
and Carlsberg Special Brew as well
as Carlsberg Alcohol Free Pilsner and         in 2020 vs. RM291.0 mil in 2019
Carlsberg Alcohol Free Wheat.
                                             EARNINGS PER SHARE:
Our range of international premium brews
includes France’s premium wheat beer       53.04 sen
Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc, Japan’s No.1
premium beer Asahi Super Dry, European        in 2020 vs. 95.18 sen in 2019
cider Somersby, Connor’s Stout Porter
that’s “Just Made Right”, US award-       We are constantly guided by the Golden Words of our founder
winning craft beer Brooklyn Brewery       J.C. Jacobsen to pursue perfection in all that we do, each and
as well as Corona Extra, the imported     every day. This sets the foundation of our Purpose:
premium Mexican beer brand.
                                          BREWING FOR
Our value power brands include the        A BETTER TODAY &
international award-winning Royal         TOMORROW.
Stout, refreshing SKOL, Jolly Shandy and
Nutrimalt.

Carlsberg Malaysia Group’s seven-
year corporate strategy, SAIL’22, is our
roadmap towards fulfilling our ambition
of becoming a successful, professional
and attractive brewer in markets we
operate in.

2
                                                        Our Highlights

                                                    CARLSBERG MALAYSIA GROUP
                                                                            AT A GLANCE

                                    100%             2020
                                Ownership
                                                              MALAYSIA
                               Carlsberg Marketing
                                      Sdn. Bhd.                REVENUE

    25%                                              RM1.26 bil
Ownership
                                                               in 2020 vs.
  Lion Brewery                                            RM1.64 bil in 2019
  (Ceylon) PLC
                                                            PROFIT FROM
            100%                                           OPERATIONS**
        Ownership
                                                    RM135.4 mil
          Carlsberg Singapore
                  Pte. Ltd.                                    in 2020 vs.
                                                         RM274.3 mil in 2019
             51%
        Ownership                                            SINGAPORE

                  MayBev                                       REVENUE
                  Pte. Ltd.
                                                    RM527.9 mil

                                                               in 2020 vs.
                                                         RM618.1 mil in 2019

                                                            PROFIT FROM
                                                           OPERATIONS**

                                                    RM64.6 mil

                                                               in 2020 vs.
                                                         RM100.5 mil in 2019

                                                              SRI LANKA

                                                       SHARE OF PROFITS

                                                     RM14.9 mil

                                                               in 2020 vs.
                                                          RM16.3 mil in 2019

                               Within this Annual Report:
                               * Net profit refers to the Group’s profit attributable to Owners of the Company
                               ** Profit from operations refers to the results from operating activities

                                                                                                                                           3
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]  Annual Report 2020

   Our quality and innovative brews - beer,       Carlsberg Alcohol Free
   stout, cider, alcohol-free and hard seltzer –
   are at the heart of moments that bring                 Enjoy Great taste. Wherever. Whenever.
   people together, consumed in moderation.
   #CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY

   Somersby Hard
               Seltzer

        Alcoholic Sparkling Water,

       with less than 100 calories.

Carlsberg
Smooth Draught

Now You Can POP a

Draught Anywhere

                                                                   OU
                                                              PORTF

                                                                    O
                                                                BRA

            Connor’s
      Stout Porter

   Premium Draught Stout that’s

                   "Just Made Right”

4
 UR                            Our Highlights
 FOLIO
OF            Scan for the full portfolio of
ANDS    Probably the Best Beers, Stouts

                                       and Ciders

             1664 Blanc

                 Good Taste with A Twist

               Carlsberg Danish
               Pilsner

                     Probably The Best Beer in The World

              Somersby

                   No. 1 Cider in Malaysia & Singapore

        Asahi Super Dry

        Japan’s No. 1 Premium Beer

                                                                                                  5
                                           Hundreds of guests joined
                                           Carlsberg’s CNY campaign ‘Double
                                           Cheers. Double Winnings' launch
                                           event in Malaysia

       LIMITED-EDITION
         3-LITRE BOTTLE

        Almost 1,500 limited-edition
3-litre Carlsberg Chinese New Year

        bottles won and given away
                              in Malaysia
   USHERING IN 2020
WITH DOUBLE CHEERS,

   DOUBLE WINNINGS

                                                    FESTIVE BOTTLES
                                                    AND CANS

                                                                               decked in creatively illustrated red paper-
                                                                               cutting fish and lion dance designs signifying
                                                                               abundance, good luck and prosperity

                                                              DOUBLE THE PRIZES

                                                                                    with cash angpows and prizes including a
                                                                                   Carlsberg Smart Mini Bar in Malaysia and
                                                                               Carlsberg premium luggage bag in Singapore

           YOU SHOP,
CARLSBERG PAYS!

    Over 1,300 lucky winners of
  Probably The Best Shopping

       Experience walked home
       with attractive prizes and

                  groceries paid by
            Carlsberg in Malaysia
 Scan QR Code
 to watch
PAINT THE TOWN RED WITH
CARLSBERG LIVERPOOL FC
 CHAMPIONS PACKAGING

A TOAST TO A HISTORIC WIN AND THE LONGEST
   PARTNERSHIP IN PREMIER LEAGUE HISTORY
       LIMITED-EDITION
             ‘CHAMPIONS’
               PACKAGING

      turning Carlsberg's iconic green to
     Liverpool FC’s iconic red, featuring
 signatures from the Champions team

VIRTUAL RED KEG

for fans to celebrate the club’s first
premiership win at participating
restaurants and bars

                                           A VIRTUAL TRIBUTE
                                                             BY FANS

                                            ‘You’ll Never Walk Alone’ anthem

                                              sung by fans across Malaysia in

                                                 place of a physical celebration

                                           EXCLUSIVE CARLSBERG
                                           MERCHANDISE

                                           Limited edition signed jersey, lockers, and champions set

                                           for Carlsberg and Liverpool fans in Malaysia and Singapore.
                    JUST KEEPS
                GETTING BETTER!

  TWO NEW ALCOHOL-FREE VARIANTS

Scan QR Code
to watch

                                Carlsberg Alcohol Free
                                Pilsner and Carlsberg
                                Alcohol Free Wheat
                                launched in Singapore
                                containing <0.5% alcohol by
                                volume (ABV), perfect for all
                                tastes and occasions
 Scan QR Code
         to watch

                           CELEBRATING TADAU
                           KAAMATAN & GAWAI DAYAK

                                     with harvest festival promotions over two
                                     months in Sabah and Sarawak

CARLSBERG SMOOTH
DRAUGHT

Growing awareness and trial in
Singapore including a Smoothest
Home Party Kit for influencers
to drive home consumption amid
social distancing restrictions
       1664 BLANC

OUR FASTEST GROWING
PREMIUM BEER,
SHARING GOOD TASTE
WITH A TWIST

FRUITS ROUGES                  LIMITED-EDITION
                          CHRISTMAS BOTTLES
a refreshing wheat beer
with a fruity twist of       for consumers in Malaysia with
red fruits and raspberry           artistically designed bottles
flavours, available for
a limited time only in        accentuating the iconic blue of
Singapore and Malaysia    1664 Blanc, with an elegant touch

                               of abstract swirls and sparkles
Scan QR Code
       to watch

                    FIRST-EVER VIRTUAL LAUNCH

                                  offered rewards & prizes to consumers
                 at the comfort of their home during the Conditional

                                    Movement Control Order in Malaysia

                                                  EXCLUSIVE
                                             STREETWEAR

                                               COLLECTION

                                                       with Nerdunit launched
                                                             in conjunction with

                                                         consumer promotions
                                                                       in Malaysia

                                     MICHELIN GUIDE
                                    COLLABORATION

                                   featuring recipes infused with
                                  1664 Blanc from Michelin-star

                                                 chefs in Singapore

                 Scan QR Code
                        to watch
PREMIUM DRAUGHT STOUT
 THAT’S JUST MADE RIGHT

VIRTUAL PERFECT POUR BATTLE                      Scan QR Code
                                                        to watch
featured Malaysian personalities showcasing the
art of pouring a perfect pint of Connor's
and drove sales via Connor's 'happy hour'
promotions nationwide in Malaysia
JAPAN’S NO.1 BEER

                                            KARAKUCHI
                                              CAMPAIGN

                                         launched in Singapore featuring
                                                 global brand ambassador
                                                                      Daniel Wu

                                    MORE SEASONAL
                                               VARIANTS

                                                    introduced in Singapore
     THE NO. 1 CIDER IN
MALAYSIA & SINGAPORE.

   THAT’S WONDERFUL.

SOMERITA RETURNS                         SOMERSBY
                                    WATERMELON
to more than 150 Malaysian
bistros and restaurants     launched in Singapore in June,
                                  now a permanent variant
      SOMERSBY HARD SELTZER

premiered in Singapore with two fruity flavours
            and less than 100 calories per serving

                                                                      Scan QR Code
                                                                              to watch

                  STAYING AT HOME
                MADE WONDERFUL

      Brightening home-drinking occasions with
    exclusive Somersby Cocktail Kit and recipes
   SAFER
TOGETHER

SAFER SCHOOLS                        ADOPT A KEG

Provided peace of mind for           Drove on-trade consumption with
parents, teachers and students       free draught beers for consumers to
with donations of handheld           help F&B businesses recover when
thermometers and disinfection        outlets reopened in Malaysia and
services to more than 1,400 Chinese  Singapore.
and Tamil vernacular schools in
Malaysia.                            Scan QR Code
                                     to watch
Scan QR Code
to watch
        AID FOR CUSTOMERS,
CONSUMERS AND COMMUNITIES
 IN A COVID-19 PANDEMIC YEAR

BRING ME HOME                          SUPPORTING LOCAL
                                       COFFEE SHOPS
Helped on-trade outlets to sell beers
with takeaway bottles and enabled      Supported neighbourhood coffee
consumers to enjoy freshly tapped      shops for a smoother recovery
beer in the comfort of their home in   with cash subsidies and consumer
Malaysia.                              promotions in Malaysia and
                                       Singapore.
Scan QR Code
to watch                               Scan QR Code
                                       to watch

Refer to pages 75 to 77 for more information on the initiatives under 'Safer Together with Customers, Consumers and Communities' in the
Sustainability Statement.
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                         Annual Report 2020

CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS

DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,

ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, I AM
PLEASED TO PRESENT THE ANNUAL REPORT AND
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CARLSBERG
BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD (CARLSBERG
MALAYSIA GROUP / THE GROUP) FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020.

When I last addressed you here in April       We were cognisant
2020, we were only just beginning to
witness the early effects of the global       of the importance
COVID-19 pandemic. Today, the pandemic
continues to adversely impact travel,         of  prioritising
leisure, retail, aviation, healthcare,
construction and dozens of other industries,  the sustainability
while social distancing, lockdowns, face
masks, constant sanitisation, online          of our business
streaming, virtual meetings and working
from home has become the ‘new normal’.        and the shared

Even today, well over a year since the novel  ecosystem with our
coronavirus was first discovered, people
are still struggling to come to grips with    customers, suppliers
the pandemic as Malaysia and Singapore
endure new infections, virus mutations and    and other stakeholders
extended movement controls.
                                              while protecting our
SUSTAINING TODAY FOR A BETTER
TOMORROW                                      operations, cash flow and

At the beginning of 2020, we were             people. In anticipation of a
guided by the Carlsberg Group’s COVID-19
Leadership Triangle that balances between     slow but promising economic
‘Situational Leadership’, ‘Defending
Operating Profit & Cash’, and ‘Prepare for    recovery, we remained agile
the Rebound’ when we were dealing with
the unprecedented impact, risks and levels    and disciplined in implementing
of uncertainty caused by the pandemic.
                                              the strategic priorities of our

                                              SAIL’22 corporate strategy to

                                              ensure we maximised our business

                                              potential under this very difficult

                                              and challenging period.

                                              For us, the 2020 financial year can
                                              be best summed up in our current
                                              report’s theme of ‘Sustaining Today
                                              for a Better Tomorrow’ – highlighting
                                              our resilience through our SAIL’22
                                              strategy, agility and adaptability in
                                              the way we do business, as well as
                                              earnest initiatives in support of our
                                              people, customers and communities
                                              where we operate in during the
                                              pandemic.

DATUK TOH AH WAH
Chairman of Carlsberg Malaysia Group

20
                                             Statements from Our Leadership

                                                                     CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS

Some key initiatives during the year         THE BOARD DECIDED EARLY ON THAT WE SHOULD
included prioritising the health and safety  ADOPT A DEFENSIVE STANCE ON OUR FINANCIAL
of our employees by mandating work-          POSITION TO GIVE US A LEVEL OF RATIONALITY ON
from-home structures, work shift rotations   COVID-19’S UNPRECEDENTED IMPACT TO THE ECONOMY
and installing strict health and safety      AND HENCE OUR BUSINESS.
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs),
including suspending brewery tours and
limiting access to pre-authorised essential
employees and contractors only.

We stepped up communication and              A seemingly positive recovery began in          the strategic levers of SAIL’22 (Strengthen
rapport with our distributors, customers     June, with improvements seen in on-trade        the Core, Position for Growth) and the
and suppliers. We constantly re-assessed     sales and consumer sentiment as MCO             key enablers (Create a Winning Culture,
our operations and diligently improved       and CB eased. However, the resurgence of        Defend Our Licence to Operate) will
processes and systems throughout the         COVID-19 infection triggered re-tightening      be covered in the Managing Director’s
value chain as outlined in our Business      of on-trade restrictions in the final quarter.  Message and Management Discussion &
Continuity Plan.                                                                             Analysis on pages 24 to 39.
                                             For the quarter ended 31 December 2020
As consumption trends shifted during         (4QFY20), the Group recorded a higher           DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER VALUE
the lockdown, we adjusted by producing       revenue of 8.5% to RM472.5 million
more cans for the off-trade sector over      versus the preceding quarter (Q3FY20),          The Board decided early on that we should
bottle and draught kegs for on-trade         positive indications of a recovering            adopt a defensive stance on our financial
sector, concurrently refocusing on digital   business outlook, as both our Malaysia          position to give us a level of rationality on
marketing and on-line sales as consumers     and Singapore operations registered             COVID-19’s unprecedented impact to the
switched to drinking at home.                higher sales in the on-trade sector when        economy and hence our business.
                                             dine-in business was allowed to resume in
On the regulatory front, we continued        the quarter.                                    The Board suspended the quarterly
to engage with the authorities such as                                                       dividend payments for the financial
appealing for operational continuity, no     Net profit for Q4FY20, however, declined        year ending 31 December 2020 in order
distribution disruption and to allow on-     by 6.6% to RM37.9 million quarter-on-           to ensure a more prudent focus on
trade outlets to resume operations.          quarter mainly driven by higher A&P             preserving cash and liquidity under this
                                             investment, a RM9.9 million restructuring       very challenging and uncertain period, and
OUR FINANCIALS                               costs and a smaller share of profit from        with the intent to strike a balance between
                                             our Sri Lanka associate business. Excluding     the longer term health and sustainability
Our performance in the first six months of   the one-off restructuring costs however,        of the organisation versus the quarterly
the financial year was severely affected     organic net profit increased by 12.1%.          dividend payout to shareholders.
by the implementation of the various
government-mandated movement control         For the full year, we posted a net profit       For 2020, we are pleased to declare an
orders (MCO) in Malaysia and the circuit     of RM162.2 million from a revenue of            interim dividend of 10 sen and a proposed
breaker (CB) in Singapore.                   RM1.8 billion, lower by 44.3% and 20.9%         final dividend of 30 sen, representing a
                                             respectively from a year ago due primarily      total of 40 sen in dividends for the full
The financial impact was most acute          to the seven-week suspension of brewery         year.
in the first half of the year, driven by     operations in Malaysia and the closures
the suspension of brewery operations         and restrictions to on-trade businesses         Subject to shareholders’ approval for the
in Malaysia, which impacted supplies         during MCO in Malaysia and the CB in            proposed final dividend at our 51st Annual
including exports to Singapore and           Singapore.                                      General Meeting, this dividend payout will
other Asian countries and a one-off tax                                                      represent RM122.3 million, equivalent to
settlement of RM6.4 million with the Royal   In the midst of all this, our SAIL’22 journey   a dividend payout ratio of 75.4% of the
Malaysian Customs (RMC). We responded        continued with an additional overarching        Group’s net profit for the year.
by tightening costs under our Fund the       focus of ‘Navigating the Storm’ amid
Journey programme while viewing the          COVID-19. Our performance within each of
RMC settlement positively as it concludes
a tax overhang we first reported in 2014.

                                                                                             21
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                 Annual Report 2020

CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS

My fellow directors and I have also           SINGAPORE                                      quarantines in so-called “bio bubbles”, for
committed to a 20% cut in our fees for                                                       the first fortnight of their stay.
the year, a decision taken in solidarity      Having gone through the first two
and recognition of the current situation      phases of its pandemic management              Sri Lanka has seen a spike in COVID-19
and in the spirit of the Group’s ‘Fund The    and recovery plan post circuit breaker,        cases at the end of 2020 and we continue
Journey’ initiatives.                         Singapore is in its third and final phase      to take a cautious view for 2021.
                                              of its recovery.
MARKET SUMMARIES                                                                             AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
                                              Its ‘new normal’ will comprise the
MALAYSIA                                      resumption of social, cultural, religious      At the 11th edition of the prestigious The
                                              and business gatherings, the resumption        Edge Billion Ringgit Club (BRC) Awards,
Several regulatory developments were          of day-to-day activities for senior citizens,  we were named top performer with the
noted in Malaysia within the financial year,  public commutes and the gradual opening        highest Return On Equity (ROE) over
on top of the pandemic-control measures       of borders, all of which will bode well for    a three-year period from 2016 to 2019
that are affecting sales at F&B outlets due   our business.                                  for the Consumers Products & Services
to closures, capacity limitations and the                                                    category. The recognition came from
numerous dine-in restrictions. Since the      At the time of writing, I am glad to           having recorded consecutively strong
MCO began in March 2020, pubs, night          report that good progress is being made        double-digit net profit gains in that
clubs, and entertainment outlets are still    in the Singapore government’s national         period, with shareholder dividends of 100
not allowed to operate.                       COVID-19 vaccination plans, which have         sen per share consecutively for FY2019
                                              already begun.                                 and FY2018 (105.1% and 110.3% of net
In October, the government gazetted                                                          profit respectively) and 87 sen per share
the Road Transport Act (Amendment)            I would also like to take this opportunity     in FY2017 (120.3% of net profit).
2020, which imposed stiffer fines and jail    to thank the Malaysia and Singapore
terms for motorists under the influence       Governments for not imposing further           According to The Edge BRC’s award
of alcohol and drugs and lowered the          increases on excise duties on beer in          methodology, our ROE increased from
national legal blood alcohol content          their Budget 2021 announcements on 26          71% in FY2017 to 118.3% in FY2018, onto
(BAC) limit from 0.08% to 0.05%. We do        November 2020 and 16 February 2021             an all-time high of 183.3% in FY2019,
firmly believe and advocate responsible       respectively. It is inevitable that any hike   giving us the highest weighted ROE over
and moderate consumption, as evidenced        in excise will lead to influx of contraband    three years of 141.4%.
by the #CelebrateResponsibly campaign,        beers, hence revenue losses to both the
which recorded a wider reach and higher       industry and the government.                   Carlsberg Malaysia Group stands among
awareness.                                                                                   161 nominees in last year’s assessment
                                              SRI LANKA                                      consisting of public-listed companies with
We also believe that further prohibitions                                                    a market capitalisation of RM1 billion and
on the sale and availability of legitimate    For the fourth quarter ended 31 December       above. This comes on the back of making
beers and stricter regulations on the F&B     2020, we registered a higher share             it to The Edge BRC’s Top 25 list for 10
industry will lead to increase in illicit     of profit in our associated company,           consecutive years since 2011, giving us the
activities. Illicit products do pose threats  Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC (LBCP) of            rare distinction of being among the best-
to consumers’ well-being as improperly        RM3.6 million versus a share of profit         performing listed Malaysian companies in
formulated alcohol products can lead to       of RM1.6 million in the previous year’s        the past decade.
serious health risks.                         corresponding quarter.
                                                                                             This is also the third The Edge BRC award
The Confederation of Malaysian Brewers        For the full year however, we registered       for the Group, which previously won the
Bhd (CMBB) estimates that 20% of the          a slightly lower share of profit from          Best Corporate Responsibility Award
beer and stout market on the Peninsular       LBCP of RM14.9 million as compared to          for public-listed companies under RM10
is illicit, while that number is much higher  a share of profit of RM16.3 million last       billion market capitalisation twice in 2019
in East Malaysia, estimated at up to 80%      year caused by dampened consumption            and 2014.
of the entire segment, both representing      during the pandemic.
significant losses in potential tax revenue                                                  We continued to be included in the
which can be redirected to the national       Like in Singapore, there are indications       prestigious MSCI indices, followed
economy especially in crucial times like      of a return to normalcy. In late January,      and tracked by the largest and most
these.                                        Sri Lanka became one of the first Asian        established financial institutions and
                                              countries to allow international travellers    asset management firms in the world.
                                              to enter its borders without strict

22
                                            Statements from Our Leadership

                                                                    CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS

The Group was included in the MSCI
Global Standard Index on 20 February
2020, with a subsequent re-designation
to the MSCI Global Small Cap Index on
20 December 2020 following changes in
market capitalisation.

Helped by the progress we have made         low single-digit cases recorded at the tail   succeeding Lim Chee Keat. Prior to
in environmental, social and governance     end of 2020 onwards.                          joining Carlsberg, Vivian held various
(ESG) practices and performance, we                                                       senior finance roles with established
remained a constituent of the FTSE Russell  At the end of January 2021, Singapore         corporations like GlaxoSmithKline, British
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM)            saw more than 113,000 people receiving        American Tobacco, BMW and KPMG,
Index for the second year following the     the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.       with stints in Malaysia, Myanmar and
bi-annual review in December 2020.          The Ministry of Health expects more           Vietnam.
Carlsberg Malaysia is currently one of      Singaporeans to receive the second dose
only four fast-moving consumer goods        and complete the full vaccination regimen     We also saw the resignation of Lew
(FMCG) companies among the index’s 75       when more polyclinics and selected            Yoong Fah, our Government Affairs &
constituents and is the only brewer.        Public Health Preparedness Clinics start      Duty-Free Director. His regulatory affairs
                                            serving as vaccination sites.                 portfolio has been absorbed by Pearl Lai
And having set a new internal record of                                                   in her re-designated role as Corporate
721 days without lost-time accidents as of  IN APPRECIATION                               Affairs Director, while responsibility for
31 December 2020, we have also recently                                                   Duty-Free operations is now under Gary
received ISO 45001:2018 certification       In a year where our people and our            Tan, our Sales Director.
for occupational health and safety          business partners were challenged and
(OH&S) management systems within our        tested to the limit of their abilities, I am  I would also like to express my gratitude to
brewery and supply chain, recognising       proud to say that everyone remained           Stefano Clini, who in his first full year at the
our enhanced procedures for a safe and      courageous and committed to addressing        helm demonstrated impeccable leadership
healthy workplaces.                         the many challenges that beset the            and unwavering calm in the midst of an
                                            industry and the Group in 2020.               extraordinary and challenging year.
OUTLOOK
                                            I would also like to take this opportunity    Last but not least, I would like to convey
We are cautiously optimistic at this        to highlight the changes in the Board and     my sincere thank you to our employees,
juncture, compared to the outset of         management team.                              trade partners, customers, consumers and
COVID-19 around the same time last year,                                                  our shareholders for your unwavering
for the following reasons.                  Katie Chan Po Kei Kay, a seasoned human       support and faith in our company and our
                                            resources (HR) practitioner with over 28      products during these challenging and
Though Malaysia’s recovery was dealt        years’ experience in Hong Kong and China      difficult times. We will strive to create and
a blow with a second MCO in January         and who is currently Vice President of HR     grow shareholder value for you.
2021, we are pleased to see new SOPs        for Carlsberg Asia, replaced Chow Lee
announced in February that enabled          Peng as our new non-independent, non-         Thank You.
economic activities to operate and          executive director on 28 November 2020.
recover, for longer operating hours and                                                   Datuk Toh Ah Wah
more relaxed dining-in restrictions at      Vivian Gun Ling Ling is our new Chief         Chairman
restaurants and eateries.                   Financial Officer as of 19 October 2020,      2 March 2021

Meanwhile, optimism for economic
recovery is gathering momentum in
Malaysia beginning with the arrival of the
COVID-19 vaccines targeting over 80% of
the population by March 2022.

In Singapore, indications are that the
government has succeeded in bringing
the virus under control through massive
testing and stringent quarantines with

                                                                                          23
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                           Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE AND
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,

HELLO EVERYONE. I HOPE THIS NOTE FINDS ALL OF YOU
IN GOOD STEAD AND EXCELLENT HEALTH.

The year 2020, long anticipated as a        From the beginning, we began
historic milestone for Malaysia and a       engaging with our stakeholders in
personally significant one for me as        earnest, communicating our efforts
my first full year leading the Carlsberg    to contain the virus and offering
Malaysia Group, suffered an unforeseen      support and reassurance to our
reverse due to COVID-19, which as we        employees, business partners and
know is now a pandemic that engulfed        customers. Our community efforts
the entire world.                           remained, with our Safer Schools
                                            campaign a new step-up in
Our company was not spared the fallout.     response to public fears over the
With the first confirmed COVID-19           outbreak of COVID-19.
confirmed case reported in Singapore on
23 January 2020, we set in motion our       Our brewery was finally allowed to
commercial and operational plans for        resume full operations following the
business continuity amid highly uncertain   start of the Conditional MCO (CMCO)
prospects. Pre-emptively, we began with     period in Malaysia on 4 May 2020.
tightening our health and safety practices
to safeguard against what was already       Thankfully, from May onwards,
becoming a huge threat here and abroad.     we saw a gradual lifting of social
                                            distancing measures in Malaysia,
Two months later, the World Health          though not all on-trade businesses
Organisation (WHO) declared a global        such as entertainment outlets were
pandemic, with governments responding       allowed to operate. In Singapore, the
by sending a third of the world’s           government announced on 19 June
population into lockdown. In Malaysia, the  2020 that on-trade outlets were only
Movement Control Order (MCO) began          to re-open partially under ‘new normal’
on 18 March 2020 while in Singapore, a      guidelines.
‘circuit breaker’ (CB) was implemented on
7 April 2020. We essentially suspended      Accordingly, our financial results
production and distribution in compliance   suffered a tumultuous first half, with
with unprecedented restrictions, which led  both revenue and profit severely dented
to business disruption.                     due to the stay-at-home orders and
                                            social distancing restrictions imposed
                                            by authorities in Malaysia, Singapore, as
                                            well as our investment in Sri Lanka.

STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director of Carlsberg Malaysia Group

24
                                                                                Statements from Our Leadership

                                                                                    MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                                                     AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Overall, volumes were impacted due to the suspension of              procedures (SOPs), including suspending brewery visits and on-
brewery operations and distribution from the start of MCO but        ground events in Malaysia.
improved gradually towards a recovery that started from June
onwards as lockdown measures eased.                                  Staff not essential to the running of the brewery were asked to
                                                                     work from home, while those working from the brewery adhered
However, the much-dreaded second wave began with new cases           to a strict segregation of workforce during shift handovers. We
escalating from September onwards, once again triggering             also implemented a split team rotation on alternate days when
another round of stricter lockdown measures that were imposed        employees returned to the office during the Recovery MCO
in most states in Malaysia. Regrettably, it took another toll on     (RMCO) period in Malaysia.
on-trade consumption which had been on the path toward slow
but promising recovery in the fourth quarter.                        In Malaysia, we have implemented mandatory swab tests since
                                                                     January 2021, fully sponsored by the company and in support
As local businesses and their employees suffered from the            of government efforts to curb the rising rate of infections for
lockdowns and loss of livelihoods, we prioritised our employees’     employees required to work at our Shah Alam headquarters or
well-being and welfare from the very start by ensuring that all      in the field.
our full-time employees would remain on full salary with no
reduction throughout 2020.                                           These difficulties saw us band together in ways we never thought
                                                                     possible. As a collective, our people are now closer than ever
This helped boost morale among our staff, despite having to          before, brought together by the challenges, setting our company
work under very difficult and challenging circumstances at the       on the right course to benefit from a cautiously hopeful rebound
brewery, in marketplace or from home.                                in 2021, all while living our purpose of BREWING FOR A
                                                                     BETTER TODAY & TOMORROW.
I am proud to say that even in the darkest days of lockdown,
we kept our priorities right, with safety and wellbeing at the top.
We developed stringent health and safety standard operating

                                                                     25
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]  Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

SAIL’22: Navigating the Storm

Our SAIL’22 corporate strategy remained firmly in progress during a year that was unprecedented on so many levels.

SAIL’22 dates to March 2016, aimed at turning the Carlsberg Group of companies into a successful, professional and attractive brewer
in our markets. We define this by delivering sustainable and organic top- and bottom-line growth, being the preferred supplier to our
consumers and customers and consistently delivering value for shareholders, employees and society alike.

During the crisis, we were further guided by the Carlsberg Group’s COVID-19 leadership triangle introduced at the start of the
pandemic that balances between ‘Situational Leadership’, ‘Defend Operating Profit and Cash’ and ‘Prepare for the Rebound’.

In 2020, SAIL’22 took on an overarching theme of ‘Navigating the Storm’ in recognition of the Group’s COVID-19 response measures
necessary for business continuity and sustainability.

CORPORATE STRATEGY: SAIL’22    OUR THREE STRATEGIC LEVERS

                               STRENGTHEN
                               THE CORE

                                                         POSITION FOR
                                                         GROWTH

                                                         DELIVER VALUE FOR
                                                         SHAREHOLDERS

26
                                                         Statements from Our Leadership

                                                             MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                              AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Amidst all the uncertainties, whether from COVID-19, domestic and global macroeconomics or socio-politics, we remained agile and
disciplined in implementing our SAIL’22 priorities, especially on our Fund the Journey initiatives and an ever-increased focus on cost
control, embedded in our Malaysia and Singapore operations.

To recap, the strategy consists of three levers: Strengthen the Core, Position for Growth and Deliver Value for Shareholders. These
three levers are further cascaded down into seven strategic priorities, which form the core of our business model and performance
priorities. Underpinning the three levers and seven business objectives are the two enablers: Create a Winning Culture and Defend
our License to Operate.

This strategy remains the bedrock of our operations, having turned the wider Carlsberg group of companies around with visible
results over the past five years, and remains in place as we approach 2021.

OUR SEVEN STRATEGIC PRIORITIES                                 OUR TWO ENABLERS

         ‘Grow in Mainstream’ with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner          CREATE A
         and Carlsberg Smooth Draught                         WINNING CULTURE

         ‘Win in Each Store’ with better in-store execution,
         a step-up from the previous ‘Win in Store’

         ‘Fund the Journey’ by delivering efficiencies in
         Operating Expenses, Value Management and the
         Supply Chain

         ‘Go Big in Premium’ with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
         Somersby cider, Asahi Super Dry and Connor’s
         Stout Porter

         ‘Innovate with Digital’ replacing ‘Build New
         Revenue Streams’

Achieve ‘Organic Growth in Operating Profit’                  DEFEND OUR LICENSE
                                                                     TO OPERATE
Deliver ‘High and Stable Dividend Yield’ for
shareholders                                                                                                                27
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                   Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

    STRENGTHEN THE CORE

     GROW IN MAINSTREAM                        Probably the Best Beer when Liverpool FC,       in Singapore to launch two alcohol-free
                                               sponsored by Carlsberg since 1992, were         variants under a single brand. Our expanded
In an unprecedented year where COVID-19        crowned champions for the first time in the     range boasted two new flavours: Carlsberg
impacted demand and distribution, our          premiership era with a massive seven games      Alcohol Free Pilsner and Carlsberg Alcohol
mainstream brands of Carlsberg Danish          to spare.                                       Free Wheat to cater to different taste
Pilsner and Carlsberg Smooth Draught                                                           preferences, containing no more than 0.5
performance were not spared. Total volume      As an extraordinary tribute to the new          per cent alcohol by volume (ABV).
for Malaysia and Singapore operations saw      champions of England, we in both Malaysia
a decline of 20% in 2020 compared to 2019.     and Singapore celebrated by launching           The launch echoes the uptick in alcohol-
                                               a limited-edition ‘Champions’ packaging         free brews (AFBs) seen in mature markets
Brewing and distribution of both our           across all Carlsberg Danish Pilsner cans and    in Western Europe and our continuous
flagship brands were halted for almost two     bottles, switching Carlsberg's iconic green     commitment to research and development
months at the start of MCO in March.           colour to Liverpool FC’s equally iconic red,    in the segment, resulting in two great tasting
                                               featuring Liverpool FC’s crest, name, and       brews versatile for all occasions, whether
The fear of the COVID-19 infection and         13 personal signatures of manager Jurgen        during meals, post-workout or wide range
movement control orders triggered a            Klopp and the team’s star players. Carlsberg    of social settings where consumers opt for
clear shift in consumer behaviour and          Smooth Draught was also dressed in the          choices beyond alcoholic beverages.
consumption trends. Demand in the off-         Champions packaging with a mirrored red,
trade sector (supermarkets, hypermarkets,      white and silver look, complementing the        With concerns over social distancing SOPs,
convenience stores and e-commerce)             all-red Carlsberg Danish Pilsner Champions      we unfortunately had to put on hold what
overtook on-trade outlets (bars, restaurants,  packaging as a collectible set.                 would have been the 27th edition of our
pubs and entertainment centres) .                                                              Carlsberg Golf Classic, which is normally a
                                               In Malaysia, consumers also won the             fixture on our calendar and a firm favourite
Nonetheless, we were able to defend our        Liverpool FC Champions Set collector’s box      of customers, amateur golfers and other
brand equity, thanks to strong campaigns       commemorating Liverpool FC’s Premier            stakeholders alike.
during Chinese New Year (CNY) and success      League win and were offered a virtual
on the field with the Liverpool Champions      Red Keg, an extension of our Adopt a Keg
campaign.                                      initiative. It was our biggest campaign of the
                                               year, and deservedly so, toasting the longest
We kicked off 2020 in spectacular fashion      partnership in English Premier League (EPL)
with our “Double Cheers, Double Winnings”      history.
CNY consumer promotion, which ran from
16 Dec 2019 to 9 Feb 2020.                     July marked a festive period in East Malaysia,
                                               where Kaamatan and Gawai are the most-
Beer lovers won unique and collectible         anticipated harvest festivals for both
prizes like a limited-edition gigantic three-  Sabah and Sarawak. In keeping with social
litre Carlsberg bottle, a 3-in-1 Carlsberg     distancing guidelines, the festivities were
Smart Mini Bar with built-in fridge, speaker   observed by staying safe at home without
and charger, premium-designed stem glass       on-ground celebrations, but instead through
and many more prizes, showing once again       a two-month long promotion encouraging
that all good things come in pairs.            fellow Sabahans and Sarawakians to stay
                                               stronger for a smoother period ahead with
In June, we celebrated a momentous             Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and Carlsberg
occasion for all lovers of football and        Smooth Draught.

                                               In Singapore, we welcomed emerging
                                               consumer trends with the launch of new
                                               alcohol-free variants under the flagship
                                               Carlsberg brand, being the first player

28
                                                        Statements from Our Leadership

                                                            MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                             AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

        WIN IN EACH STORE                    But even as restrictions gradually lift,      However, we registered a lower share
                                             we are seeing unabating progress in           of profit of RM14.9 million from Lion
In 2020, we enhanced the strategic priority  the off-trade business as more drinkers       Brewery (Ceylon) PLC (LBCP), our
of ‘Win in Store’ to ‘Win in EACH Store’,    opted to enjoy drinking in the safety         associate business in Sri Lanka in 2020
underscoring our commitment to execute       of their homes. Off-trade sales saw a         compared to a share of profit of RM16.3
diligently, expand our distribution, build   steady uptrend as consumer habits and         million the year earlier, caused primarily
on existing customer successes, achieve      increased home consumption become             by the dampened consumption.
targets and provide outstanding customer     the norm. This continues to be the case
experience against the Carlsberg Group's     in Singapore, where our flagship brand        Our part-time sales promoters in Malaysia
global scorecard benchmarks.                 Carlsberg continues to retain the coveted     and Singapore stationed at coffee shops,
                                             No. 1 position in off-trade sales.            restaurants and food courts were also
The social and economic impact                                                             unfortunately made redundant as the on-
of COVID-19 spelled a change in              The new and fast-growing e-commerce           trade consumption declined. The savings
consumption patterns due to the various      sector continues to improve, as digital       from this workforce was equivalent to 757
lockdown and social distancing measures      content consumption and engagement            full-time employees.
barring patronage to bars, pubs, bistros     grew beyond the lockdown periods and
and restaurants.                             stay-at-home consumer habits further          In addition, an amount of RM9.9
                                             encouraged online orders and delivery.        million was incurred as restructuring
To respond, we switched our channel                                                        costs. This was a necessary measure to
focus from the on-trade sector to off-               FUND THE JOURNEY                      streamline cash flow and help deal with
trade sector encompassing e-commerce,                                                      the uncertainties of the pandemic while
convenience stores, mini markets,            Following a bumpy first-half with the         funding the journey. It readjusted the
supermarkets and hypermarkets as home        decision to suspend quarterly dividends       Group’s cost base and way of working to
consumption patterns became the new          in favour of protecting our financial         reflect COVID-19 uncertainties.
norm.                                        position and managed costs, there were
                                             signs of recovery in the second half, albeit  Our board of directors also stepped up,
With dine-in restrictions gradually lifted   still being vulnerable to the uncertainties   graciously committing to a 20% cut in
in the second half last year, we witnessed   of the still-virulent COVID-19 here and       their fees for the 2020 financial year, a
on-trade sales gradually recovering in       abroad.                                       gesture of solidarity to help us manage
both Malaysia and Singapore as people                                                      through the challenges.
felt more confident to leave the house       Lower revenue was mitigated by a
and enjoy dining-out.                        reduction of marketing costs and              With any recovery anticipated to be
                                             streamlining operating expenses.              slow over the next few months because
This was especially evident with higher      Rationalising marketing spend and             of the lingering effects of COVID-19 and
sales recorded in traditional on-trade       repurposing our efforts into digital          the measures necessary to control them,
outlets like coffee shops and food courts    initiatives in lieu of our usual large-scale  we have been and will continue to be
where consumers re-congregated in            campaigns and on-ground consumer              extremely disciplined in implementing
these larger spaces which were conducive     activations helped free up additional         our ‘Fund the Journey’ initiatives.
environments to maintain social              resources.
distancing.                                                                                We will continue to optimise our costs
                                                                                           aggressively, reallocate our investments
                                                                                           to digital campaigns, e-commerce
                                                                                           and off-trade while extending various
                                                                                           supporting campaigns to our business
                                                                                           partners.

                                                                                           29
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                            Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

    POSITION FOR GROWTH

        GO BIG IN PREMIUM                    ornaments, for consumers staying home      Somersby, Malaysia and Singapore’s
                                             and safe during the third COVID-19 wave    No. 1 cider brand, expanded its flavour
We recorded a 17% decline in premium         in Malaysia.                               with its first-ever Hard Seltzer range
brands covering Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,                                                 launched in Singapore, a brand-new
Asahi Super Dry, Somersby cider, Connor’s    Connor’s Stout Porter – the premium        innovation. The new beverage range
Stout Porter and Brooklyn craft beer as it   draught stout porter ‘Just Made Right’ –   comes in two refreshing fruity flavours –
was impacted by the closure of on-trade.     tapped on the growing viewers of online    Somersby Hard Seltzer Lime and
However, the decline is relatively lower     content by launching its ‘Perfect Pour     Somersby Hard Seltzer Mango &
than mainstream as consumers opted           Battle’ virtually in December, aimed at    Passionfruit – perfect for Singapore’s
for premium brews to reward themselves       educating, elevating and showcasing the    tropical heat.
during these tough times.                    art of pouring a perfect pint of Connor’s
                                             with the offer to enjoy Connor’s Happy     The launch was the brand’s first foray
In May, 1664 Blanc – our strongest           Hour promotions at participating outlets   into hard seltzer worldwide, expanding
performing premium brand in Malaysia         after.                                     its offerings in an entirely new product
– partnered with homegrown street                                                       category to appeal to a changing profile
fashion sensation Nerdunit to launch an      Stout lovers tuned in on Facebook Live     of consumers in line with the rising trend
exclusive streetwear collection to amplify   to watch Malaysian personalities as        of wellness locally. Globally, the product
a two-month promotion in off-trade and       they took on the Connor’s Perfect Pour     category has garnered a loyal following
e-commerce.                                  Battle learning about its premium quality  due to its low sugar and calorie content
                                             ingredients, gentle roasty undertones,     and a growing demand from fitness-
The 1664 Blanc X Nerdunit collection         and how to pour a perfect pint with a      conscious millennials.
was launched at a virtual party on 1664      creamy head. Fans viewing the virtual
Blanc’s Facebook page, a first for both      show won exclusive Connor’s bomber
brands, where 1664 Blanc showcased           jackets and free pints of beer redeemable
“sharing good taste with a twist” as         at participating outlets.
a homage to the unique hint of citrus
characteristic of the French-style wheat
beer and its elegant blue bottle.

More than 18,000 fans enjoyed the virtual
fashion show catwalk and performances
and a post-launch afterparty where
viewers won merchandise from the
collection as well as exclusive discount
codes for 1664 Blanc purchases from
Carlsberg Malaysia’s official store on
Shopee.

Come Christmas, the 1664 Blanc brought
cheer to the season with exclusive limited-
edition Christmas bottles available
only in Malaysia, inspired by Christmas

30
                                                         Statements from Our Leadership

                                                             MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                              AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Somersby Hard Seltzer is an alcoholic         Spurred on by the pandemic, we embraced    Beyond that, we ramped up our
sparkling water that contains 4.5 per         digital at a swift pace, successfully      e-commerce initiatives with online
cent alcohol by volume (ABV) content.         repositioning our brand campaigns for      retailers (“e-tailers”) as home
Each 330ml serving contains not more          both on- and off-trade in response to the  consumption increased and shopping
than 99 calories and only two grams           new norms.                                 habits migrated online.
of carbohydrates, resulting in no heavy
aftertaste compared to other alcoholic        In Malaysia, we amplified our off-trade    Our colleagues in Carlsberg Singapore
alternatives.                                 activities with consumer promotions while  began initiatives like the Family & Friends
                                              activating all our national campaign and   campaign to provide doorstep delivery
Carlsberg Singapore also welcomed             consumer promotions on our e-commerce      via simple online orders, delivered by our
the latest member of its Somersby             partners’ platforms Shopee and Lazada,     own in-the-field sales force.
portfolio with a limited-edition Somersby     where we established official stores in
Watermelon cider launched in June and         2020.                                      Made-for-digital consumer promotions
became the first market in Asia to do so.                                                and offers on our flagship stores on
Due to fantastic consumer response, we        We increased our focus on social media     Lazada and Shopee and with partners
ride on its success and have just launched    engagement to create more traffic to       like PotBoy and PandaMart in Malaysia
Watermelon variant for consumers in           e-commerce platforms, in sampling and      as well as SCommerce, Qoo10, Redmart,
Malaysia in March this year.                  via virtual events such as 1664’s ‘Share   Amazon and FoodPanda in Singapore
                                              Good Taste with a Twist’ launch and the    saw a combined e-commerce growth of
In Malaysia, the cider brand celebrated       Connor’s Perfect Pour Battle.              around 2.5 times in 2020.
Apple Day in October with a special
three-day promotion on four-can packs         Brand innovations continue to play         New Ways of Working with
of Somersby Apple, Blackberry or              an important role through packaging,       Technology
Elderflower Lime, while brightening           serving and liquid improvement, but with
up stay-at-home drinking occasions            an added digital dimension such as that    Physical meetings and interstate travel
with limited-edition Somersby Shooter         seen through Adopt a Keg’s novel way of    became a thing of the past, overtaken
& Ladder game sets and exclusive              consumer and customer engagement via       by virtual platforms like Microsoft
Somersby Cocktail Kits with suggested         an online platform.                        Teams swiftly implemented via internal
cocktail recipes.                                                                        training and usage, enabling us to remain
                                              E-Commerce: Strength to strength           productive while staying safely socially
Somerita, a fun drinking ritual of a                                                     distant.
Somersby bottle served upside down            Digital penetration continues its strong
over crushed ice, made its return at more     upward trajectory, as more people          We deployed a number of digital
than 150 selected bistros and restaurants     consume online content and the             measures to ensure our people remained
across Malaysia.                              pendulum continues to shift to online      in constant contact while management
                                              transactions for all manner of goods and   issued frequent, detailed and informative
    INNOVATE WITH DIGITAL                     services.                                  company-wide updates to keep us all
                                                                                         abreast of company developments
Our strategic priority of ‘Build New Revenue  As such, e-commerce volumes continued      throughout the movement control in
Streams’, which had a focus on innovation,    to grow strongly from 2019 albeit from     Malaysia and circuit breaker in Singapore.
has been distilled further to ‘Innovate       a modest base. Our digital marketing
with Digital’ in 2020 in recognition of the   campaigns drove online shoppers to our     This included simple Group-wide chat
growing role digitalisation plays in our      freshly established flagship stores on     app updates, productivity suites and
commercial efforts.                           Lazada and Shopee, giving us a strong      e-learning and knowledge sharing and
                                              online presence on two of Malaysia’s       crisis management portals to cater to
                                              most established e-commerce platforms.     diverse audiences and business objectives.

                                                                                         31
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                          Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

    DELIVER VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS

      ORGANIC GROWTH IN                                     DIVIDENDS AND                      Consequently, the Board recognised that
        OPERATING PROFIT                               SHAREHOLDER VALUE                       our dividend policy needs to prioritise
                                                                                               business sustainability whilst still delivering
For the full year, Group revenue decreased       Given the unprecedented impact, uncertainty   shareholder value.
by 20.9% to RM1.8 billion compared to the        and volatility of the pandemic, the Board
corresponding period last year due to lower      suspended quarterly dividend payments         Factors such as prospects and capital
sales in both Malaysia and Singapore which       for the financial year ending 31 December     requirement of the business and possible
had been impacted by the implementation          2020 (FY20).                                  expansion strategies as well as other factors
of the MCO/RMCO/CMCO and CB measures                                                           that might have an overall impact on the
respectively since March 2020.                   This difficult decision was made to preserve  company are considerations taken by the
                                                 cash and liquidity, striking a balance        Board for dividends for the financial year.
Net profit for the year was lower by 44.3%       between our company’s long-term health
to RM162.2 million when compared to the          versus our track record of delivering value   With this, the Board has declared a single
same period last year. Organic net profit was    to shareholders.                              tier interim dividend of 10 sen per share
RM174.6 million, if adjusting for the one-off                                                  for FY20.
charge that fully settled the Bill of Demand     With any recovery expected to be slow
from Royal Malaysian Customs of Selangor         and bumpy, we decided to take a prudent       In addition, the Group has also proposed
(“RMC”) amounting to RM6.4 million in the        approach to conserve cash and protect the     a FINAL single tier dividend of 30 sen per
second quarter, and a one-off restructuring      business.                                     ordinary share, subject to the shareholders’
cost of RM9.9 million in the fourth quarter.                                                   approval at the forthcoming 51st Annual
                                                                                               General Meeting.
These results were partially mitigated by
tighter cost controls under Fund the Journey                                                   If approved, the total dividends declared for
initiatives of lower marketing spend and a                                                     FY20 would amount to 40 sen per ordinary
reduction in operating expenses.                                                               share, equivalent to a total payment of
                                                                                               RM122.3 million comprising 75.4% of total
Total revenue for Malaysia decreased by                                                        Group net profit for FY20.
23.3% to RM1.3 billion whilst profit from
operations decreased by 50.6% to RM135.4         Revenue (RM million)                          Earnings per Ordinary Share (sen)
million. This was mainly attributed to lower
sales, the later timing of Chinese New Year               2,256.6                              90.7   95.2
sales this year and the abovementioned
restructuring cost, which were partially         1,982.3               1,785.0
offset by lower operating expenses.
                                                                                                            53.0

                                                 2018     2019         2020                    2018   2019  2020

Singapore reported a decrease of 14.6% in        Group Net Profit (RM million)                 Return on Shareholders’ Fund (%)
revenue to RM527.9 million whilst profit
from operations decreased by 35.7% to            277.2    291.0                                                              189.2
RM64.6 million driven by the similar reasons
as the Malaysia operations.                                            162.2                   122.5

The Group registered a lower share of profit in                                                             105.1
LBCP of RM14.9 million compared to a share
of profit of RM16.3 million last year caused     2018     2019         2020                    2018   2019  2020
primarily by the dampened consumption in
2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

32
                                                 Statements from Our Leadership

                                                     MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                      AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Analysis of 2020               Analysis of 2020             Analysis of 2020
 Group Revenue                    Total Assets               Total Liabilities
                                                            & Shareholders’

                                                                    Equity

      EXCISE &                 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT          SHARE
CUSTOMS DUTIES                     AND RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS         CAPITAL

2020             2019          2020    2019                 2020              2019
50.2%            47.4%         34.6%  32.5%                 23.4%            22.0%

         SALES, DISTRIBUTION,  INVENTORIES                         RESERVES
ADMINISTRATION & OTHER COSTS

2020             2019          2020   2019                  2020             2019
19.7%            19.3%         13.5%  9.8%                  2.9%             -0.1%

PROFIT AFTER                   RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS               MINORITY
   TAXATION                       AND PREPAYMENTS                  INTEREST

2020             2019          2020    2019                 2020             2019
9.3%             13.3%         20.6%  32.0%                 1.1%             1.2%

RAW & PACKAGING                CASH AND CASH                    PAYABLES
MATERIALS COSTS                 EQUIVALENTS                 AND ACCRUALS

2020             2019          2020   2019                  2020              2019
8.0%             7.3%          14.8%  11.6%                 44.2%            55.9%

STAFF COSTS                    INVESTMENTS                  LOANS & BORROWINGS
                                                            AND LEASE LIABILITIES

2020             2019          2020   2019                  2020             2019
8.0%             7.2%          14.5%  12.5%                 20.2%            12.2%

       TAXATION                INTANGIBLE ASSETS            CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES

2020             2019          2020   2019                  2020             2019
2.4%             3.6%          1.1%   1.2%                  5.3%             5.1%

DEPRECIATION                   OTHER ASSETS                 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

2020             2019          2020   2019                  2020             2019
2.4%             1.9%          0.9%   0.4%                  2.9%             3.7%

                                                                                      33
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                                     Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (RM MILLION)

                                        2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

Revenue                                 1,489.4  1,584.8   1,555.1  1,635.1  1,659.9  1,679.5 1,730.0*  1,982.3                      2,256.6 1,785.0
Profit Before Taxation                   220.4     245.7   236.4     274.2    283.6    283.8 294.8        361.3                        382.2 209.8
Taxation                                   53.0      51.9    49.8               63.4                       74.5                          81.8 43.6
Profit for the Financial Year             167.4    193.8    186.6      57.3   220.2      73.2 62.4       286.8                        300.4 166.2
                                                                     216.9             210.6 232.4

* Adjusted 2017 Revenue had the Group applied MFRS 15.

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (RM MILLION)

                                        Restated           2013 2014 2015             2016     2017     2018                         2019 2020
                                             2011 2012
                                                                                      142.0     149.4   149.4
Issued and Paid-up Share Capital        142.0    142.0     142.0    142.0    142.0    148.8     133.7     17.3                       149.4    149.4
Retained Earnings                       130.4     148.7    140.0     165.1   163.9                           -                        (6.2)     15.3
Call and Put Option Reserve                                (20.1)   (10.6)                  -        -     2.4                            -         -
Non-Distributable Reserves                    -        -              15.7         -   30.9      15.9                                  5.3       3.2
Shareholders’ Fund                        13.0      8.3      11.8   312.2     29.7    321.7    299.0     169.1                                167.9
Deferred Taxation                       285.4    299.0     273.7      13.5   335.6               16.6     12.4                       148.5     15.8
Net Non-Current Liabilities               18.3     19.8                        10.2      12.1     0.3     0.3                         24.9       4.1
Minority Interest                                             17.1       -                1.7    13.4     11.9                                  6.8
                                              -        -        -    19.0          -     8.4   329.3    193.7                          6.2
                                           3.9      7.8             344.7       7.0   343.9                                            8.2    194.6
                                        307.6    326.6      10.5             352.8                                                   187.8
                                                           301.3

Property, Plant and Equipment, Right-   158.6    168.2     174.3    164.4     167.5   176.6     181.2   196.2                        229.2    227.6
   of-use Assets and Intangible Assets   33.4     34.7     40.9      58.2     80.2      73.1    64.3    73.0                          84.7      92.5
   (Net Book Value)                      115.6   123.7      86.1     122.1    105.1    94.2     83.8    (75.5)                       (126.1)  (125.5)
                                        307.6    326.6     301.3    344.7    352.8             329.3    193.7                        187.8     194.6
Investment in an Associate                                                            343.9
Net Current Assets/(Liabilities)

FINANCIAL RATIO

                                        Restated           2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018                         2019 2020
                                             2011 2012     60.16     69.2    70.62    67.04    72.34    90.65                        95.18 53.04

Earnings per Ordinary Share (sen)*      54.35 62.68        0.90     1.02     1.10       1.05   0.98     0.55                         0.49     0.55
                                                            65.2                        64.1   74.9     122.5                        189.2    105.1
Net Assets Backing per                   0.93 0.98                  74.0 68.0
   Ordinary Share (RM)*                   63.1 66.3           1.3                         1.3    1.3      0.8                          0.7      0.7

Return on Shareholders’ Fund (%)+                          12.18                      13.92
                                                              5.2                        5.2
Current Ratio                           1.5      1.5                1.4      1.3

Bursa Securities Price at               8.54 12.52                  11.74 11.70                15.30    19.68                        29.40 23.24
   31 December (RM)                                                                              5.0      6.5
                                        4.9      4.5                5.2      6.1                                                     3.5      2.0
Net Dividend Yield (%)^

* Computed based on total number of shares net of Treasury shares. Treasury shares were cancelled on 17 May 2017.
+ Return on Shareholders’ Fund was computed based on Group’s Profit for the Financial Year over average Group’s Shareholders’ Fund.
^ Net dividend yield was computed based on dividend paid out and declared during the year divided by the share price at year end.

34
                                                   Statements from Our Leadership

                                                       MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                        AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

FIVE YEAR DIVIDEND                        2016     2017    2018     2019    2020
                                         205.0     221.2    277.2   291.0   162.2
 Group’s Net Profit (RM million)
 Dividend Amount Declared and Proposed    220.1   266.0    305.7    305.7   122.3
                                        107.4%   120.3%   110.3%   105.1%  75.4%
    for the year (RM million)                              100.0
 Dividend as % of Net Profit               72.0     87.0            100.0    40.0
 Dividend per Ordinary Share (sen)

CREATE A WINNING CULTURE

While COVID-19’s impact means we will
have to take a hard look at all aspects
of our operations and where cost savings
can be found, our top priority remains
the health, safety and welfare of our
employees.

While salaries for full-time employees
were paid on time and in full throughout
the MCO and Circuit Breaker period
despite the adverse business environment,
the Group has prioritised its efforts for
people development with developing the
Right People, Outstanding Leadership,
and Winning Culture as priorities in the
year.

Further details on our people can be
found in the Sustainability Statement
from pages 40 to 77.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   35
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                 Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

    DEFEND OUR LICENSE TO OPERATE

REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS                                       Our Sustainability journey via our Together Towards ZERO agenda
                                                              continues, consisting of four ambitions underpinned by individual and
Beyond the operational and social pressures brought           measurable targets leading up to 2022 and 2030:
on by the pandemic, we have been presented with
regulatory developments both related and unrelated to         ZERO           ZERO
COVID-19.                                                     CARBON         WATER
                                                              FOOTPRINT      WASTE
In line with the Malaysian government’s MCO, the Group
had to essentially suspend its production and distribution    ZERO           ZERO
operations from 18 March 2020, lasting seven weeks,           IRRESPONSIBLE  ACCIDENTS
as beer was not included within the list of essential         DRINKING       CULTURE
consumer items.
                                                              To cope with the unprecedented stress and pressures of a year
The government has also passed stricter drink-driving         devastated by COVID-19, we remained true to our purpose of Brewing
laws at lower national blood alcohol content limits,          for a Better Today and Tomorrow, despite the word “today” having its
though this is a development we welcome as it is aligned      disproportionate share of challenges.
with our sustainability ambition and stance on ZERO
Irresponsible Drinking through our continued education,       Recognising that while times were difficult for us, many within our
awareness and engagement with consumers via our               wider community were much less fortunate. We stepped up to help in
#CelebrateResponsibly campaign.                               the darkest hours of lockdown to benefit customers, consumers and
                                                              our community under a collective effort named “Safer Together” in
Public policy discussions surrounding the sale, availability  Malaysia. There were four initiatives in total, in direct response to the
and consumption of alcoholic drinks has also arisen, with     looming threat of COVID-19 in our society:
potential ramifications from a regulatory standpoint.

While public discourse especially in the context of
responsible drinking is to be welcomed, we equally
urge regulators to not overreact and rule in favour of
measures that are overly harsh and excessive.

Given our national objectives to be a fully developed
economy equipped with a high-functioning and
responsible society administered in an equitable and
well-governed manner, a holistic view of the brewing
industry’s long-term contribution to the nation’s
economy and society is a necessity.

TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO

Unexpected events caused by the COVID-19 pandemic
posed a set of challenges unprecedented on a number
of fronts. Therefore, our Together Towards ZERO
sustainability programme not only remains relevant but
is even more important than ever before, to ensure our
vision for a better tomorrow.

36
                          Statements from Our Leadership

                              MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
               AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

Safer Schools  Parents and teachers of an estimated 1 million school children returned to a clean and safe school
Support for    after lockdown, with our Safer Schools campaign donating handheld thermometers and sanitisation
Coffee Shops   services to more than 1,400 Chinese and Tamil vernacular schools nationwide.

Adopt a Keg    Before classes resumed in stages starting 24 June last year, all eligible schools received more than
               3,100 handheld thermometers, with a further 7.2 million square feet of classrooms, facilities and
Bring Me Home  common areas disinfected in schools identified within COVID-19 “red zones” during the MCO.

               Coffee shops have a long history and tradition in Malaysia and Singapore spanning decades. When
               COVID-19 hit, we stepped in to help them recover.

               Partnering with the Malaysia Singapore Coffee Shop Proprietors General Association (MSCSPGA),
               we helped to subsidise utilities payments up to three months for 1,000 eligible small and medium-
               sized coffee shop operators nationwide, with a concurrent consumer promotion offering them higher
               margins on each bottle of Carlsberg Smooth Draught sold.

               November also saw us launch our #LoveOurCoffeeshops campaign in Singapore, as we aimed to
               reignite the coffee shop culture amongst locals and to aid operators in their recovery with subsidies
               and promotions of Carlsberg Smooth Draught and Asahi Super Dry.

               To help local bars and restaurants get back on their feet, we introduced Adopt a Keg to reward
               consumers who have purchased Carlsberg for home consumption with free draught beer they could
               redeem at local F&B outlets when MCO was lifted.

               Beer lovers could fill their virtual beer keg by simply scanning the receipt and barcodes from
               their purchases of Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and Carlsberg Smooth Draught cans and bottles from
               convenience stores, online retailers, supermarkets and hypermarkets. Once the keg was filled,
               consumers were rewarded with two free beers redeemable via a QR code at participating F&B outlets.

               Knowing that our consumers were missing their favourite draught beers and stouts, we introduced
               Bring Me Home, with 124 participating bars and restaurants bringing freshly poured brews directly to
               homes all over the Klang Valley, Johor Bahru, Malacca, Seremban, Pahang. Kedah, the East Coast,
               Penang and Perak.

Further details on Safer Together can be found in the Sustainability Statement from pages 75 to 77.

                                                                                                     37
CARLSBERG BREWE RY MAL AYSIA BERHAD [1969010007 92 (9210-K)]                                Annual Report 2020

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

BUSINESS RISKS                                                                              OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS

During the year, we achieved valuable         F&B operators adhering to mandated            2021 is expected to continue being shrouded
closure on some outstanding tax matters.      SOPs should be allowed to reopen,             by uncertainty and volatility, headlined
The beer industry was also spared             while highly automated manufacturing          by the ongoing spike and mutation in
another hike in excise duties following the   businesses and their distribution networks    COVID-19 cases around the world.
passing of Budget 2021 by the Malaysia        should be allowed to continue operations
and Singapore governments. Contraband         in the event of future lockdowns.             While a number of vaccines have been
and illicit trade continued to pose material                                                approved for use globally, we expect the
business risks to our business.               There remains a downside to keeping           rollout of vaccination programs to face
                                              struggling pubs and entertainment             hurdles and take time. We are however
Full and Final Settlement of Customs          outlets closed, which are licenced outlets    hopeful that the national COVID-19
Charges                                       where legitimate alcohol sales occur.         vaccination plans that have started in
                                              When legitimate channels close, sales of      Malaysia and Singapore will curtail
On 15 June 2020, we succeeded in our          illicit and illegally formulated liquor will  COVID-19 infections and lead to better
appeal for a remission of tax charges         replace consumption in the absence of         economic recovery in the second half
from the Royal Malaysian Customs              licenced outlets, putting the health and      this year.
(“Customs”) of Selangor where the final       safety of consumers at risk.
amount paid was RM6.4 million. This was                                                     The Group is taking a cautious view over
a much-reduced amount from the original       We welcome the government’s decision          the outlook for the current year due to
bills of demand for excise duty, sales tax    to reactivate the Multi-Agency Task           the persevering effects of COVID-19 and
and penalty of RM56.3 million as claimed      Force (MATF) in collaboration with the        the possible government regulations and
by the authorities on 17 September 2014.      Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission          measures that will likely cause on-trade
The full payment was made through             (MACC) and the National Financial Crime       sales and consumer sentiment to remain
three installments in July, August and        Centre (NFCC), following the tabling          depressed.
September 2020.                               of Budget 2021, in the battle against
                                              contraband.                                   In light of the re-imposition of the second
Ongoing Business Risk                                                                       MCO in Malaysia since January this year,
                                              We would also like to thank the respective    the Group anticipates a muted recovery
The pandemic triggered lockdowns              governments in Malaysia and Singapore         in on-trade sales as well as other factors
for people and closures of businesses         for not raising excise duties or Goods        such as weak macroeconomic conditions
all over the nation in 2020. While the        and Services Tax (GST) in their respective    and financial challenges that many
safety of all Malaysians remains of           annual Budgets.                               F&B operators are facing to stay afloat.
primary importance on a national level,                                                     Limitations set on dining-out, travelling
it is also our belief that there is room for  Keeping these taxes capped on our             and reunions before and during the festive
policymakers to consider allowing more        quality beverages for another year            season, had also adversely impacted
businesses to reopen once again, for the      goes a long way towards helping our           many businesses.
good for the country and livelihoods          many customers in both countries while
across the nation.                            also containing illicit beer sales during     That said, the Group is confident that the
                                              troubled and challenging times.               cost-management and cash-preserving
With proper SOPs, strengthened anti-                                                        measures coupled with a strong access
Illicit enforcement and holistic anti-drink                                                 to borrowing facilities will keep our
driving awareness campaigns in place,                                                       balance sheet strong and help ensure a
business can and should be able to restart.                                                 reasonable financial performance in 2021.

                                                                                            Above all, our ongoing SAIL’22 corporate
                                                                                            strategy will help guide us through these
                                                                                            turbulent times to enable the Group to
                                                                                            continue delivering long-term value for
                                                                                            all our shareholders.

38
                                                         Statements from Our Leadership

                                                             MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
                                              AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS

A Difficult but Gradual Recovery              Innovation has and will continue to be         A valuable lesson from the pandemic
                                              a strategic priority, and agility is key       has been the revelation that our true
We foresee a slow economic and business       in adapting to a highly volatile and           strength lies in the bonds we have built
recovery that continues to labour under       uncertain operating environment, such          in our organisation and our relationships
the threat of the ongoing pandemic.           as increasing digitisation of consumer         with our stakeholders which were built
                                              campaigns, e-commerce, product and             meticulously over the years.
Thus, we will continue to focus on the        packaging innovations.
health and safety of our employees                                                           By continuously supporting each other,
and customers alike while ensuring the        The still-high COVID infections will continue  we recognise the value that comes from
sustainability of our operations in the       to influence on-trade consumption and          mutual dependability and survival within
short- and long-term.                         consumer sentiment in general, but we          our shared ecosystem so that we may
                                              are cautiously optimistic for recovery         emerge from this crisis stronger and even
As a group, we have been and will continue    with Malaysia and Singapore adapting           more resilient.
to be even more disciplined in implementing   to new social and business norms and
our ‘Fund the Journey’ initiatives. We will   government controls over the pandemic.         I am also especially grateful to our
continue to optimise our costs aggressively,                                                 consumers and customers for their
reallocate our investments on e-commerce      IN APPRECIATION                                patronage and loyalty, as well as our
and off-trade, while still supporting our                                                    employees for going the extra mile in
business partners.                            Our company’s resilience, even in the          these extraordinary times.
                                              depths of the pandemic, is attributable
In addition, we will constantly review our    to the strong relationships we have built      Your support has helped us to continue
business to ensure that our structures,       over the years with our distributors and       our contribution to our nation-building
processes and costs are suited to a post-     business partners, who have in turn            efforts by sustaining today for a better
COVID-19 reality. With these in place, we     demonstrated a commendable ability to          tomorrow, in our hope of emerging from
remain hopeful of sustaining an acceptable    adapt to the new norms.                        the storm at full sail ahead.
performance until the pandemic is
overcome and businesses can resume full                                                      Stefano Clini
operations.                                                                                  Managing Director
                                                                                             2 March 2021

                                                                                             39
