DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD

                                         ANNUAL REPORT 2021

                 NOURISHING OUR NATION
2                                                    Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

NOURISHING
OUR NATION

>>
As Malaysia’s leading dairy company, Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Berhad continues to make great
strides in our journey of growth as we stay true to
our Purpose of Nourishing Our Nation.

We are committed to Nourishing Malaysians with
trusted and sustainable dairy nutrition for now
and generations to come. We will also continue
supporting the national health agenda whilst
striving to improve the nutritional status of
Malaysians.

Overview

                  600                                RM284.5
                                                     MILLION
                EMPLOYEES
                                                       2021 PROFIT

ESTABLISHED IN          HALAL                              3.75
                    PRODUCER                           MILLION
   1963
                >50 YEARS & IMPLEMENTED              ESTIMATED ANNUAL
                HALAL COMPLIANCE SYSTEM                    CONSUMERS

                             SINCE 1963
Annual Report 2021                        1

     DDP HAS PRODUCED    118 MILLION

  37.9 MILLION                     PACKS

   LITRES OF FRESH MILK   2 MILLION
       FROM 2011 - 2021
                                STUDENTS
         74%

PACKAGING RECYCLABLE &
             CIRCULAR
TABLE OF
CONTENT

CORPORATE AND GOVERNANCE

6 Notice of Annual General Meeting                           26 Chairperson’s Statement
12 Corporate Information                                     30 Management Discussion & Analysis
13 5-Year Financial Summary                                  40 Corporate Governance Overview Statement
14 Profiles of Board of Directors and Company                60 Audit & Risk Committee Report
                                                             69 Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control
       Secretary                                             76 Sustainability Report
20 Management Team Profiles

FINANCIAL REPORTS                                            109 Statement of Cash Flows
                                                             110 Notes to the Financial Statements
102 Directors’ Report                                        153 Statement by Directors
106 Statement of Financial Position                          153 Statutory Declaration
107 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other                    154 Independent Auditors’ Report

       Comprehensive Income
108 Statement of Changes in Equity

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

159 Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
160 Analysis of Shareholdings
• Proxy Form

QR Feature in this Annual Report

Follow the steps to scan the QR code reader in 3 easy steps

   Download the   Run the QR Code                             Get access to the   >>
“QR Code Reader”   Reader app and                              soft copy of our   Soft copy version
                  point your camera                          reports and contact  of Dutch Lady Milk
 on App Store or    to the QR Code                                                Industries Berhad
    Google Play                                                   information     Annual Report
                                                                                  2021
       TRUSTED BY
   GENERATIONS FOR

   150
 YEARS

OUR BRAND PORTFOLIO

                                               >60

                                                                                                                     PRODUCTS
                                                                                                                          WITH

                                                                                                                     HEALTHIER
                                                                                                                   CHOICE LOGO
6                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fifty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“59th AGM”) of the Company will be
carried out fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at Gallery
3, Level 3, New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm, 1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia on Wednesday, 25 May 2022 at 10.00 a.m. for the purpose of transacting the following
purposes:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021,
     together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon (Please refer to Explanatory
     Note to the Agenda (i)).

2. To approve the proposed increase and payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM500,000 for          Resolution 1
     the financial year ending 31 December 2022, to be made payable quarterly (Please refer to
     Explanatory Note to the Agenda (ii)).

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 to Non-Executive Directors     Resolution 2
     for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the
     Agenda (ii)).

4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Rule 105 of the Constitution Resolutions 3 and 4
     of the Company:

(a) Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden; and
(b) Ms. Saw Chooi Lee

5. To re-appoint Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik who was appointed during the year and retires pursuant Resolution 5
     to Rule 86.3 of the Constitution of the Company.

6. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF: 1146) as the Company’s Resolution 6
     auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions:

7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED                                 Resolution 7
     PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED
     SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE”)

“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company to enter into and to give effect to
the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the specified
classes of Related Parties as stated in Sections 2.4 and 2.3 of the Circular to Shareholders
dated 26 April 2022 which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations subject to
the following:-

(i) the transactions are in the ordinary course of business and are on terms not more
     favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not
     to the detriment of the minority shareholders; and
Annual Report 2021                                                   7

                                             NOTICE OF
                    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

     (ii) the aggregate value of such transactions conducted pursuant to the Shareholders’ Mandate
           during the financial year will be disclosed in the Annual Report for the said financial year;

     AND THAT such approval shall continue to be in force until:

     (a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company at which time
           it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the Meeting the authority is renewed; or

     (b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company subsequent to
           the date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
           (“the Act”) (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section
           340(4) of the Act); or

     (c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting;

     whichever is the earlier.

     AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete and do
     all such acts and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of
     the Company (including executing all such documents as may be required) to give effect to the
     transactions contemplated and/or authorised by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”

8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance with
     the Constitution of the Company and the Companies Act, 2016.

By Order of the Board

KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No. 201908001190
Company Secretary
Petaling Jaya
26 April 2022

NOTES

1. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, in the interest of our stakeholders’ health and safety, the Fifty-Ninth Annual General Meeting
      (“59th AGM”) will be conducted fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Electronic
      Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV
      facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 59th AGM through the following modes of communication:
      i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Virtual Meeting iii) You may
      submit questions in advance on the AGM resolutions and Annual Report 2021 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Monday, 23 May 2022 via
      Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-
      AGM Meeting Questions”). The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator
      for the 59th AGM to facilitate the Virtual Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 59th AGM
      below to register, participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.

2. The Broadcast Venue of the 59th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
      stipulates that the Chairman shall be at the main venue of the 59th AGM. Members will not be allowed to attend the 59th AGM in person
      at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the 59th AGM.

3. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the 59th AGM of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote instead
      of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights
      as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
8                                                                       Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

4. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in respect
      of each Omnibus Account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account, a Member
      (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting.
      In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the proportion of the holdings
      represented by each proxy is specified.

5. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is a
      corporation, the instrument must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.

6. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 59th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
      Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only depositors
      whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to
      attend and vote on their behalf.

7. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority under
      which it is originally signed or notarially certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of Boardroom Share
      Registrars Sdn Bhd at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
      Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof (or in
      the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom
      Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or
      any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide below.

8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
      in the Notice of the 59th AGM will be put to vote by way of poll.

Explanatory Notes to the Agenda

(i) First item of the Agenda

      This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only in accordance with the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016.
      As such this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.

(ii) Resolutions 1 and 2:

      The Company is seeking for shareholders’ approval for the proposed increase and payment of the Directors’ fees and the payment of
      benefits for the financial year ending 31 December 2022, as follows:

Directors’ Fees and Benefits                                            2021 (per annum)     2022 (per annum)
Chairperson’s Fees                                                      RM122,411            RM126,083
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee Directors)  RM69,777             RM71,870
Chairperson of Audit & Risk Committee fees                              RM8,593              RM8,851
Member of Audit & Risk Committee fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee     RM5,729              RM5,901
Directors)
Chairperson of Nominating & Remuneration Committee fees                 RM1,719              RM1,771
Meeting Attendance allowance                                            RM1,300 per meeting  RM1,300 per meeting

The calculation is based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’ Meetings and on the
assumption that all the Directors will remain in office until the financial year ending 31 December 2022.

(iii) Resolutions 3, 4 and 5

The Board through its Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) had assessed each of the retiring Directors, and considered
the following: (i) If there is any evidence of any interest, position or relationship that might influence, or reasonably be perceived to
influence, in a material respect, the retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole; and (ii) The retiring Director’s performance and contribution based on the
Directors’ Peer Assessment results.

For item (i), the NRC considered and did not find evidence of any interest, position or relationship that might influence, or reasonably be
perceived to influence, in a material respect the retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before
the Board and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole, save and except that Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Board representatives of the majority shareholder Royal FrieslandCampina N.V (RFC). Accordingly,
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                                   9

                                                                                                             NOTICE OF
                                                                                    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Non-Independent Board members. None of the retiring
Directors hold any shares in the Company whether directly or indirectly, have any family relationships with any other director or
substantial shareholder of the Company nor do they have any personal interest in any business arrangement involving the Company.

For item (ii), the NRC found that each of the retiring Directors had performed well based on the performance criteria evaluated.

Based on the above, the Board approved the NRC’s recommendation and supports the re-election of Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria
Kodden and Ms. Saw Chooi Lee who retire in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s Constitution, and the re-appointment of the
Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik who retires in accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution.

(iv) Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
      Nature

Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 26 April 2022.

STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

1. Details of individuals who are standing for election as Directors
      (Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements)

No individual is seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming 59th AGM of the Company.

2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the Main Market Listing
      Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

No general mandate to issue securities in the Company is being sought at the forthcoming 59th AGM of the Company.

Personal Data Privacy:

By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or
representative(s) to participate, speak and vote at the Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents
to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the Meeting and matters related thereto, including
but not limited to: (a) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives
appointed for the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and
other documents relating to the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); and (c) for the Company (or its agents) to comply with
any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”); (ii) undertakes and warrants that where the
member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has
obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Company (or its agents) processing of the personal data of
such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the member will fully indemnify the Company in respect of
any penalties, liabilities, legal suits, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s failure to provide accurate and correct
information of the personal date or breach of the member’s undertaking and/or warranty as set out herein.

ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR
THE FIFTY-NINTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“59TH AGM”)

Meeting Platform        : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my

Day and Date            : Wednesday, 25 May 2022

Time                    : 10.00 a.m.

Broadcast Venue         : Gallery 3, Level 3, New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm,

		 1, Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor

Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform

		 2) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Meeting.

		 3) Submit question via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com prior

			 to the meeting

Broadcast Venue

1. Shareholders/proxies are not allowed to present and participate at Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 59th AGM via the Broadcast
      Venue as the venue is only meant to facilitate the conduct of the Virtual Meeting.

Annual Report 2021

1. Members are encouraged to download a digital copy of the Annual Report 2021 from the Company’s website in the interest of preserving
      the environment. The Annual Report 2021 can be downloaded from the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
10                      Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

2. If you need a copy of the printed Annual Report 2021, kindly complete the enclosed Request Slip and send the same to the Company’s
      Share Registrar, Board Share Registrars Sdn Bhd.

3. Any request for the Annual Report 2021 would be forwarded to the requestor within four (4) market days from the date of receipt of
      the written request.

Proxy

1. Shareholders who are unable to remote participate in Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 59th AGM are encouraged to appoint the
      Chairperson of the Meeting to vote on their behalf.

2. You may deposit the Proxy Form electronically with the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using
      Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding
      the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Kindly follow the link at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com to login and select E-PROXY
      LODGEMENT” to deposit your Proxy Form electronically.

3. If you wish to remote participate the Virtual Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form. You will not be allowed to participate
      the Virtual Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.

4. If you have submitted Proxy Form prior to the Virtual Meeting and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish to participate
      in the Virtual Meeting by yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier appointed proxy forty-
      eight (48) hours before the Meeting.

Poll Voting (For Virtual Meeting)

1. The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
      Requirements. The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of
      electronic voting (e-Voting).

2. For the purposes of this AGM, the remote participation and e-voting will be carried out via the following voting devices:-
      a. Personal smart mobile phones ,
      b. tablets or
      c. Laptops

3. There are 2 methods for members and proxies who wish to use their personal voting device to vote as follows:-
      a. Using QR Scanner Code given in the email to you OR
      b. Using website URL https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my

4. The polling will only commence after the announcement of poll voting session open by the Chairperson and until such time when the
      Chairperson announces the closure of poll.

5. The Scrutineers will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairperson. Scrutineers will announce the
      results thereafter and the Chairperson will declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.

Remote Participation and Electronic Voting

6. Please note that this option is available to (i) individual members; (ii) corporate shareholder; (iii) Authorised Nominee; and
      (iv) Exempt Authorised Nominee.

7. If you choose to participate in the meeting online, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, post questions to the Board
      and submit your votes in real time whilst the meeting is in progress.

8. Kindy follow the steps below on how to request for login ID and password.

        Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
        [Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again. You may proceed
        to Step 2. Submit request for Remote Participation user ID and password.]
        a. Access website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
        b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
        c. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKAD (front and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format.
        d. Please enter a valid email address and wait for Boardroom’s email verification.
        e. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be provided.
Annual Report 2021                                                   11

                                             NOTICE OF
                    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        Step 2 – Submit Request for Remote Participation User ID and Password
        [Note: The registration for remote access will be opened on 26 April 2022]

        Individual Members
        - Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password above.
        - Select “Virtual Meeting” from main menu and select the correct Corporate Event “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad 59th Virtual

             Meeting.
        - Read and agree the to the terms and conditions.
        - Enter your CDS account and thereafter submit your request.

        Corporate Shareholders
        - Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the

             Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy to submit the request.

        Please also provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad (Front and Back) in JPEG, PNG or PDF format or Passport as well
             as his/her email address.

        Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
        - Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the

             Form of Proxy to submit the request.
        - Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee must also provide a copy of the Proxy Holder’s MyKad (Front and Back) or

             Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format as well as his/her email address.

        a. You will receive a notification from Boardroom that your request has been received and is being verified.
        b. Upon system verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022, you will receive an email from

             Boardroom either approving or rejecting your registration for remote participation.
        c. You will also receive your remote access user ID and password along with the email from Boardroom if your registration is

             approved.
        d. Please note that the closing time to submit your request is at 10:00 a.m. on 23 May 2022 (48 hours before the Virtual Meeting).

        Step 3 – Login to Virtual Meeting Portal
        [Please note that the quality of the connectivity to Virtual Meeting Portal for live web cast as well as for remote online voting is highly
        dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connectivity available at the location of the remote users.]

        a. The Virtual Meeting portal will be open for login starting one (1) hour before the commencement of Virtual Meeting at 10:00 a.m.
             on 25 May 2022.

        b. Follow the steps given to you in the email along with your remote access user ID and password to login to the Virtual Meeting
             portal. (Refer to Step 2 above)

        c. The steps will also guide you how to view live web cast, ask questions and vote.
        d. The live web cast will end and the Messaging window will be disabled the moment The Chairman announces the closure of the

             Virtual Meeting.
        e. You can now logout from Virtual Meeting Portal.

Live Webcast, Question and Voting at the Virtual Meeting

The Login User Guide for participation, posing questions and voting at the 59th AGM, will be emailed to the shareholders together with the
remote access user ID and password once their registration have been approved.

Shareholders who participate the Virtual Meeting are able to view the Company’s presentation or slides via the live web-streaming.

The Chairman and the Board of Directors will endeavour their best to respond to the questions submitted by shareholders which are related
to the resolutions to be tabled at the 59th AGM, as well as financial performance/prospect of the Company.

Shareholders may proceed to cast votes on each of the proposed resolutions, to be tabled at the 59th AGM, after the Chairman has opened
the poll voting session on the resolutions. Shareholders are reminded to cast their votes before the poll is closed.

No recording or photography of the virtual AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission of the Company.

Shareholders/Proxies must ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and vote when the virtual AGM
has commenced. Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the meeting is maintained. Kindly note
that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection at the location of the remote
participants.

Enquiry

Please email to the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com if you have
queries pertaining to the remote participation and electronic voting, prior to the virtual Meeting.
12                                                                          Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

BOARD OF DIRECTORS                  Saw Chooi Lee                           Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
                                    Senior Independent Non-Executive        Shahriman
CHAIRPERSON                         Director                                Independent Non-Executive Director
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin           (appointed on 01.01.2014 and            (appointed 25.06.2018)
Rajakumar                           re-designated to Independent
Independent Non-Executive Director  Non-Executive Director on 15.01.2020)   Jean Serge Krol
(appointed 27.02.2019)                                                      Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
                                    Bernardus Hermannus Maria               (appointed 19.07.2019)
DIRECTORS                           Kodden
Ramjeet Kaur Virik                  Non-Independent Non-Executive Director  Darren Kong Kam Seong
Non-Independent Executive Director  (appointed 01.01.2018)                  Independent Non-Executive Director
Managing Director                                                           (appointed 14.04.2021)
(appointed 02.07.2021)              Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
                                    Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
                                    (appointed 16.03.2018)

COMPANY SECRETARY                   REGISTERED OFFICE                       STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING

Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim       Level 5, Quill 9,                       Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Licensed Secretary                  112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim           Securities Berhad
(L.S. No. 9652)                     46300 Petaling Jaya                     Stock Code: DLADY 3026
SSM Practising Certificate No.      Selangor Darul Ehsan
201908001190                        Telephone : 03-7953 2600                AUDITORS
                                    Facsimile : 03-7953 2700
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE                                                      PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT
                                    REGISTRAR                               (LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146)
CHAIRPERSON                                                                 Chartered Accountants
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku     BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS              Level 10, 1 Sentral, Jalan Rakyat
Shahriman                           SDN BHD                                 Kuala Lumpur Sentral
                                    12th Floor, Menara Symphony             50706 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
MEMBERS                             No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Saw Chooi Lee                       Seksyen 13                              PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Darren Kong Kam Seong               46200 Petaling Jaya
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias        Selangor Darul Ehsan                    PUBLIC BANK BERHAD
Jean Serge Krol                     Telephone : 03-7890 4800                12, Jalan 14/14
                                    Facsimile : 03-7841 8151                46100 Petaling Jaya
NOMINATING &                                                                Selangor Darul Ehsan
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE              WEBSITE
                                                                            CITIBANK BERHAD
CHAIRPERSON                         www.dutchlady.com.my                    Level 45, Menara Citibank
Saw Chooi Lee                                                               No 165 Jalan Ampang
                                    INVESTOR RELATIONS                      50450 Kuala Lumpur
MEMBERS                             & ENQUIRIES
Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden                                            MALAYAN BANKING BERHAD
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku     Arent Naber                             18A, Jalan 14/14
Shahriman                           Finance Director                        46100 Petaling Jaya
Darren Kong Kam Seong               finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com       Selangor Darul Ehsan
Annual Report 2021                                                              13

5-YEAR                                        NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
FINANCIAL SUMMARY                             (RM ‘mln)

REVENUE                PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(RM ‘mln)              (RM ‘mln)

1,064.5
         1,048.6
                   1,066.6
                             1,100.6
                                       1,133.7
                                                          157.5
                                                                    171.3
                                                                              137.6
                                                                                        97.5
                                                                                                  284.5
                                                                                                                     117.7
                                                                                                                               129.4
                                                                                                                                         102.9
                                                                                                                                                   73.4
                                                                                                                                                             248.0

  ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21

NET DIVIDEND PAID      PAID-UP SHARE CAPITAL  SHAREHOLDERS FUND
(RM ‘mln)              (RM ‘mln)              (RM ‘mln)

179.2
         128.0
                   64.0
                             51.2
                                       32.0
                                                          64.0
                                                                    64.0
                                                                              64.0
                                                                                        64.0
                                                                                                  64.0
                                                                                                                     104.0
                                                                                                                               105.5
                                                                                                                                         144.4
                                                                                                                                                   166.6
                                                                                                                                                             382.6

  ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21

TOTAL ASSETS           NET ASSET BACKING      EARNINGS PER SHARE
(RM ‘mln)              PER SHARE              (SEN)
                       (RM ‘mln)

392.3
         404.8
                   443.6
                             498.8
                                       701.2
                                                          1.63
                                                                    1.65
                                                                              2.26
                                                                                        2.60
                                                                                                  5.98
                                                                                                                     183.9
                                                                                                                               202.3
                                                                                                                                         160.8
                                                                                                                                                   114.7
                                                                                                                                                             387.5

‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21    ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21
14                                                                                                  Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY

COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY

  A Audit & Risk Committee

  N Nominating &
          Remuneration Committee

BOARD COMPOSITION                               DATIN SERI SUNITA MEI-LIN RAJAKUMAR
                                                Chairperson and Independent Non-Executive Director

    4       3      1

                                                Malaysian  Female                                   Age 53

                                                Date of Appointment: 27 February 2019

                                                Tenure of Directorship: 3 years 1 month

                                                Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4

                                                Membership of Board Committee: None
                                                Datin Seri Sunita was a member of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s board committees
                                                up to 27 September 2021 when she relinquished her positions in all board committees.

                                                Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                                                • Berjaya Corporation Berhad

     Independent Non-Executive                  Non-listed public company
     Directors                                  • MCIS Insurance Berhad
     Non-Independent Non-Executive              • Zurich General Insurance Malaysia Berhad
     Directors                                  • Climate Governance Malaysia Berhad
     Executive Directors
                                                Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
GENDER                                          • LLB (Honours), Bristol University
                                                • Qualified as Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales in
    5
                                                      1994
                                             3
                                                Working Experience:
                                                Datin Seri Sunita’s career began at the Audit and Insolvency Divisions of Ernst & Young
                                                in London. Thereafter she was attached to the Corporate Finance Department of RHB
                                                Investment Bank Berhad in Kuala Lumpur before becoming a consultant at MIMOS Berhad,
                                                where she was invited to manage a foreign technology venture capital fund. She is appointed
                                                to the board of trustees of several charities and is involved in a spectrum of community-
                                                based activities. She has a cumulative 20 years of experience sitting on boards ranging from
                                                technology start-up companies to listed companies, and is a strong advocate of climate
                                                governance, having founded the country chapter of the World Economic Forum’s climate
                                                governance initiative.

    Male
    Female
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                                15

                                                                     PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                                                                 AND COMPANY SECRETARY

RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK                                                   SAW CHOOI LEE                                      AN
Executive Director                                                   Senior Independent Non-Executive Director

Malaysian           Female             Age 45                        Malaysian  Female                          Age 58

Date of Appointment: 2 July 2021                                     Date of Appointment: 1 January 2014

Tenure of Directorship: 8 months                                     Re-designation to Independent Director: 15 January 2020

Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 2/2                                Tenure of Directorship as Independent Director: 2 years 2 months

                                                                     Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4

Membership of Board Committee:                                       Membership of Board Committee:
None                                                                 • Nominating & Remuneration Committee (Chairperson)
                                                                     • Audit & Risk Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:                                                             Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Nil                                                                  Issuers:
                                                                     Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance,      Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                                                                     • Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and MBA from
      London School of Economics, United Kingdom.
                                                                           the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:                                                             Working Experience:
Nil                                                                  Ms. Saw was formerly the Managing Director for Dutch Lady
                                                                     Milk Malaysia and Singapore from 2015 to 2017. She was then
Working Experience:                                                  re-designated as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director in
Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for 10 years. Prior to her    January 2018.
current appointment, Ramjeet was the Marketing Director for the
Consumer Dairy Business of the Company since 2018. Before that,      Ms. Saw started her marketing career by joining the Unilever
she was the International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina      management training programme and since then, she has held
Asia based in Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT Frisian Flag    various senior managerial positions within the fast-moving
Indonesia.                                                           consumer goods industry. She first joined the Company in March
                                                                     2003 as its Commercial Director. From March 2008 to 2010, she
She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial       was appointed as the General Manager for FrieslandCampina Hong
roles, namely in marketing, sales and shopper functions. Her career  Kong. She was then promoted to become the Managing Director for
started in other leading fast-moving consumer goods organisations    FrieslandCampina Mainland China from 2011 to 2014.
such as British American Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken
Malaysia Berhad (previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).

                                                                     She also teaches at the Graduate Business School – MBA Program,
                                                                     Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and mentors in the Women in
                                                                     Leadership (WIL) programme by Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
16                                                                                       Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY

BERNARDUS HERMANNUS                               N                   DATO’ DR. ROSINI BINTI ALIAS                    A
MARIA KODDEN
                                                                      Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Dutch  Male                               Age 48                      Malaysian  Female                       Age 64

Date of Appointment: 1 January 2018                                   Date of Appointment: 16 March 2018

Tenure of Directorship: 4 years 2 months                              Tenure of Directorship: 4 years

Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4                                 Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4

Membership of Board Committee:                                        Membership of Board Committee:
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee                                 • Audit & Risk Committee

Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed             Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:                                                              Issuers:
Nil                                                                   Nil

Academic/Professional Qualification(s):                               Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• BA in International Economics/Modern Japanese Studies               • Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, DVM, Universiti Pertanian

      University of Rotterdam in the Netherlands                            Malaysia
• MA International Relations, University of Gronigen in the
                                                                      Working Experience:
      Netherlands                                                     Dato’ Dr. Rosini was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the
• MBA from University of Bradford/NIMBAS University                   Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), Malaysia. Her career in
                                                                      the veterinary and agricultural sector spans over 30 years, and
Working Experience:                                                   her contribution and service to the veterinary sector has been
Mr. Kodden assumed the position of President of Business              recognised through state honours and by industry patrons in 2015
Group, Specialised Nutrition for Royal FrieslandCampina N.V on        and 2017.
1 January 2018. Prior to that, he was the Managing Director for
FrieslandCampina, Branded Netherlands. He has also held various
director and managerial positions for Infant & Toddler Nutrition,
Brand and Innovation and Sales within Royal Friesland Foods and
later FrieslandCampina N.V. He has extensive experience in the areas
of sales, marketing, general management and crisis management.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                              17

                                                                   PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                                                               AND COMPANY SECRETARY

TENGKU NURUL AZIAN                                A  N             JEAN SERGE KROL                                   A

BINTI TENGKU SHAHRIMAN                                             Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Independent Non-Executive Director

Malaysian           Female                Age 59                   Dutch  Male                               Age 51

Date of Appointment: 25 June 2018                                  Date of Appointment: 19 July 2019

Tenure of Directorship: 3 years 9 months                           Tenure of Directorship: 2 years 8 months

Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4                              Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4

Membership of Board Committee:                                     Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee (Chairperson)                             • Audit & Risk Committee
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee
                                                                   Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed          Issuers:
Issuers:                                                           Nil
• Sunway REIT Management Sdn Bhd (management company of
                                                                   Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
    Sunway REIT)                                                   • Post-master Degree Certified Controller (RC), Vrije Universiteit,
• FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad (formerly known as Freight
                                                                         Amsterdam
    Management Holdings Berhad)                                    • Post-master Degree Certified Public Accountant (RA),

Academic/Professional Qualification(s):                                  Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (RUG), Groningen
• Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya               • Master of Economics (Drs.), Auditing variant, Rijksuniversiteit
• Barrister-at-Law - The Honourable Society of Inner Temple
• School of Oriental & African Studies, London University, LLB           Groningen (RUG), Groningen

    (Hons)                                                         Working Experience:
                                                                   Mr. Krol joined FrieslandCampina in 2002 as Commercial Controller
Working Experience:                                                Friesland Foods Cheese, Wolvega. He then held the position as a
Tengku Nurul Azian was formerly the Executive Vice President       Finance Director at FrieslandCampina Thailand, Bangkok from
& Partner of PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management              2006 to 2010 and as Finance Director at FrieslandCampina DOMO,
consulting firm focused on public sector transformation and        Amersfoort from 2010 to 2015 before assuming the position as
business turnaround with global experience.                        Finance Director of FrieslandCampina China, Shanghai in May
                                                                   2015. In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director of Finance for
She started her career in 1988 as an Advocate and Solicitor with   FrieslandCampina’s Specialised Nutrition Business Group.
Messrs. Shook Lin & Bok before pursuing a career in investment
banking in 1992. She has over 18 years of broad experience in
investment banking and corporate finance, the last position held
as Head of Corporate Finance in RHB Investment Bank Berhad,
a member of RHB Banking Group, the 4th largest fully integrated
financial services group in Malaysia.

In 2010, she was appointed as the Director of Education and Human
Capital Development in the Performance Management and Delivery
Unit (PEMANDU) and held this position until 2017.

She is also a Board member of Pemimpin GSL, Malaysia, a member
of the Global School Leaders network,an organisation involved
in providing school leadership programs to head teachers in
approximately 195 schools and sits on the Board of Governors of
her alma mater, Convent Bukit Nanas.
18                                                                                                 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY

DARREN KONG KAM SEONG                          A  N                     KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                                        Company Secretary

Malaysian  Male                        Age 44                           Malaysian          Female                 Age 47

Date of Appointment: 14 April 2021                                      Date of Appointment: 6 April 2018

Tenure of Directorship: 11 months                                       Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4

Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 3/3                                   Directorship in Public Listed Companies:
                                                                        Nil
Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee                                                Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee                                   • LLB (Honours), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
                                                                        • Bar Vocational Course, University of Wales, Cardiff, United
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:                                                                      Kingdom
Nil                                                                     • Barrister-at-Law of England & Wales (Lincoln’s Inn)
                                                                        • Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):                                 • Licensed Company Secretary
• Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified
                                                                        Working Experience:
    Accountants (ACCA)                                                  Katina was admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)                Malaya in 1999 after which she practiced in several law firms in Kuala
• Associate member of the Association of Certified Fraud                Lumpur before joining the Usaha Tegas Group as Legal Counsel in
                                                                        2005. Subsequently, she was attached to Lafarge Malaysia Berhad
    Examiners (ACFE)                                                    from March 2011 to March 2018 where she was the Head Counsel for
• Member of the Certified Practising Accountants, Australia (CPA)       Cement and Drymix businesses and the Company Secretary. She
• Member of the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)        then joined the Company on 15 March 2018 as the Legal & Company
• Member of the Singapore Institute of Directors (SID)                  Secretarial head. She is a licensed company secretary under Section
• BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting, Oxford Brookes University,          20(G) of the Companies Commission of Malaysia Act 2001.

    United Kingdom

Working Experience:
Mr. Darren Kong is currently Managing Director, Corporate Strategy
& Alliance of Fusionex Group, an established multi-award winning
data technology provider that specialises in Analytics, Big Data,
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Prior to venturing into
the ICT sector, he has held senior management and finance positions
in industries covering property development, property management
and the automotive industry. His area of work involves various
organisations from enterprises to small businesses, establishing
partnership with trade and industrial associations and government
agencies.

Mr. Darren Kong is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered      Save as disclosed, the Directors and the Company Secretary
Certified Accountants (ACCA), a member of the Malaysian Institute       do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or
of Accountants (MIA), a member of Certified Practising Accountant       major shareholder of the Company other than as nominee
(CPA) Australia, a member of Institute of Corporate Directors           director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have
Malaysia (ICDM), a global associate member of Singapore Institute       any conflict of interest with the Company, has not been
of Directors (SID) and an associate member of the Association           convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not
of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He graduated from Oxford           been imposed any penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies
Brookes University, United Kingdom with a BSc (Hons) in Applied         during the financial year 2021.
Accounting and a professional qualification from the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants. He also holds a Certificate in Data
Analytics (CertDA) from ACCA, a Certificate in Digital Marketing
Specialist from Malaysian Institute of Management, a Certified Digital
Transformation Professional (International Program) from CASUGOL
and a Certificate in Google Cloud Big Data & Machine Learning.
20                        Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES

RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK        Appointed: July 2021

Managing Director         Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                          • Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance, London School of

                              Economics, United Kingdom.

                          Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                          Nil

                          Working Experience:
                          Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for 10 years. Prior to her current appointment,
                          Ramjeet was the Marketing Director for the Consumer Dairy Business of the Company since
                          2018. Before that, she was the International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina Asia
                          based in Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT Frisian Flag Indonesia.

                          She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial roles, namely in marketing,
                          sales and shopper functions. Her career started in other leading fast-moving consumer
                          goods organisations such as British American Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia
                          Berhad (previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).

Malaysian Female  Age 45

ARENT NABER               Appointed: September 2020

Finance Director          Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                          • Leading to Succeed program, Ashridge University, United Kingdom
                          • Executive Master in Finance and Control, Tias Nimbas Business School, Netherlands
                          • Master of Science in Financial Management, Nyenrode Business University, Netherlands

                          Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                          Nil

                          Working Experience:
                          Prior to his current role as Finance Director, Arent was the Customer Finance Manager for
                          FrieslandCampina Philippines - Alaska Milk Corporation since 2017. Prior to that, Arent held
                          various positions in FrieslandCampina since 2009 including Manager Corporate Internal
                          Audit and Supply Chain Finance Manager FrieslandCampina Domo USA 2015 – 2017.

Dutch  Male       Age 35
Annual Report 2021                                                                        21

                                                       MANAGEMENT TEAM
                                                                       PROFILES

ZATUR BINTI HASSIM          Appointed: November 2019

Marketing Director          Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                            • Degree in Biomedical Science, National University of Malaysia
                            • Leading to Succeed Program, Ashridge University, United Kingdom
                            • MBA Essential Certificate, London School of Economics and Political Science

                            Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                            Nil

                            Working Experience:
                            Zatur has more than 20 years of experience in pharmaceutical and FMCG, with the last
                            8 years focusing specifically on Nutrition/Dairy. Before assuming her current role, Zatur was
                            the Specialised Nutrition Director for the Company and prior to that, she was Specialised
                            Nutrition Director at FrieslandCampina Nigeria.

                            She joined FrieslandCampina in Singapore as International Medical Marketing Manager
                            in October 2013. Zatur was then invited to move to Nigeria in 2015 where she led the
                            Specialised Nutrition portfolio as Marketing Manager before moving into the Specialised
                            Nutrition Director role in 2018. Prior to joining FrieslandCampina, Zatur worked with Sanofi-
                            Aventis, GlaxoSmithkline Pharmaceutical, Wyeth Pharmaceutical and Kimberly-Clark.

Malaysian Female    Age 43

MUHAMMAD ABDUL HADI         Appointed: September 2018
BIN ABDULLAH
                            Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Corporate Affairs Director  • Bachelor of Communications (Honours), University Science of Malaysia
                            • Leaders of the Future Programme, Ashridge Business School,
                                                                                                    Hertfordshire,
                                United Kingdom

                            Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                            Nil

                            Working Experience:
                            In addition to his role as Corporate Affairs Director for the Company, Hadi was also appointed
                            as FrieslandCampina’s Public Affairs Coordinator for AMEA Region. Prior to joining the
                            Company, Hadi was the Manager, Government & Corporate Affairs with JT International
                            Berhad from 2001 to 2018.

                            Hadi has over 29 years’ experience in various roles in the areas of government & external
                            relations, regulatory affairs, corporate communications, public relations, CSR and corporate
                            branding. He previously held positions at Communication Resource Group Public Relations
                            Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (a member of the Malaysian Resources Corporation
                            Berhad Group of Companies), Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad and Dialog Group
                            Berhad.

Malaysian  Male     Age 54

                            Effective 1 December 2020, Hadi has been appointed as Public Affairs AMEA Region
                            Coordinator. Hadi will take a seat in the most important regional bodies and partner the
                            local teams within Asia, Middle East and Africa region, acting as a sparring business partner
                            for regional public affairs.
22                        Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES

ANJALI VELAYUDHAN         Appointed: January 2022
MENON
                          Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Human Resources Director  • Leadership Program, Executive Education, London Business School, United Kingdom
                          • Certified Master Performance Coach, JMC Academy, Malaysia
Indian  Female    Age 40  • Hallos Relationship Practitioner, Hallos Relationship Community, Spain
                          • The Change Cycle Practitioner, The Change Cycle Series, USA
                          • 360 Degree Profiler Practitioner, Korn Ferry, India
                          • Thomas Emotional Intelligence Certified Practitioner, Thomas International, United

                              Kingdom
                          • Post Graduate Diploma in Management, Human Resources (Major) & Marketing (Minor),

                              Symbiosis Center for Management and Human Resource Development, India
                          • Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Engineering, North Maharashtra University, India

                          Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                          Nil

                          Working Experience:
                          Prior to her current role as Human Resources Director, Anjali was the Regional Head of
                          Talent Centre of Competence, for Nestlé in Asia Pacific and Sub-Saharan Africa Region,
                          based in Kuala Lumpur since 2018. Prior to that, Anjali has held various positions in Nestlé
                          since 2006, including Corporate People Development and Employee Communications Lead
                          for South Asia (based in India), and Change, Organisation Design and Communications Lead
                          for Indochina (based in Thailand) between 2013 – 2018.

SANDER JANMAAT            Appointed: October 2018

Program Director          Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                          • Management Development Program, Ashridge Business School, UK
                          • Food Economics (MSc), Wageningen University, The Netherlands
                          • Dairy Process Technology, HAS University, The Netherlands
                          • Business Administration, Fulton Montgomery Community College, USA

                          Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                          Nil

                          Working Experience:
                          Before assuming his current role, Sander was the Operations Director at DLMI. He also
                          held different roles within Asia, amongst others Performance Excellence Manager with
                          Frisian Flag Indonesia and prior to that Plant Manager and later Site Manager at Alaska Milk
                          Corporation in the Philippines.

                          He started his career in 2000 with Calvé Delft, a part of Unilever N.V. and joined
                          FrieslandCampina in 2001. He has over 19 years of experience in operations, continuous
                          improvement, project management and supply chain and has held various management
                          positions in the Netherlands, France, USA, Philippines and Indonesia.

Dutch   Male      Age 46
Annual Report 2021                                                                                           23

WILSON CHUA                                                       MANAGEMENT TEAM
                                                                                  PROFILES
Sales Director
                             Appointed: January 2022

                             Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                             • Dare to lead program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent, Belgium
                             • Bachelor of Business in Information Technology University of Coventry, England

                             Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                             Nil

                             Working Experience:
                             Prior to his current role as Sales Director, Wilson was the National Customer Development
                             Manager - Modern Trade & GT Chilled for Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad. Wilson is
                             equipped with 14 years of sales experience and joined the company in April 2016. Prior to
                             DLMI, he worked in Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever and local company Nibong Tebal Enterprise,
                             all in various sales capacity. At DLMI, he was part of multiple sales transformation projects
                             and was a part of the Future Leader Cohort 2018.

Malaysian  Male      Age 37

TAN POH LIAN         Age 45  Appointed: April 2021

Plan & Deliver Lead          Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
                             • Advanced Diploma in Business Administration (Association of Business Executive,
 Malaysian Female
                                 ABE UK)

                             Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
                             Nil

                             Working Experience:
                             Poh Lian started her career with FrieslandCampina in 2013 when she joined as Supply
                             Planning Manager.

                             Since then, she had progressively expanded her role to encompass Shipping, Logistics and
                             then Warehousing as a Plan & Deliver Manager prior to her current role as a Customer
                             Supply Chain Lead.

                             She started her Supply Chain career with Unilever. During her tenure, Poh Lian had also
                             been part of Finance, GL reporting and was also tasked to lead outsourcing transformation
                             of the Accounts Payable function before moving back to Supply Chain as Demand and
                             Supply Manager.

                             She has more than 13 years of experience in various managerial positions, managing
                             different part of the supply chain.

Save as disclosed, the members of the Management Team do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with
the Company, has not been convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not been imposed any penalty by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year 2021, and do not hold any shares in the Company.
26                                                              Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT

Nourishing Our Nation

                      Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar

                              Chairperson

Dear Shareholders,                                              The sustainability of our purpose, ‘Nourishing our Nation’
                                                                continues to guide us in these difficult times. Recognised as
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to            ‘essential services’ by the Government during the Movement
present the Company’s Annual Report and Audited                 Control Order (MCO), DLMI continued to provide our popular
Financial Statements for the financial year ended               nutritious products to further the national health agenda.
31 December 2021.
                                                                We remain resolutely guided by FrieslandCampina’s global
Facing Headwinds                                                mantra on people safety, focus on our primary processes,
                                                                staying connected and making impactful decisions with the
2021 proved to be an extension to the previous year’s           future in mind.
unprecedented challenges facing our country, community
and businesses across all industries. Economic headwinds        Persevering through the COVID-19 Storm
coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic produced an
environment of uncertainty, impacting traditional ways of       Despite the challenges faced in 2021, DLMI posted a 3%
working and disrupted established business models.              revenue growth to RM1.13 billion, resulting in a Profit Before
                                                                Tax of RM284.5 million.

At Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI”), we have          Our purpose of Nourishing Our Nation could not have been
managed to thus far, weather this economic and COVID-19         more clearer during this pandemic. With the greenlight from
storm mainly due to the resilience and agility of our talented  the Government to operate during the MCO in 2021, DLMI
workforce and business partners. These factors continue         worked purposefully, delivering quality dairy products to
to be critical for the ongoing success of our business          all parts of the country and simultaneously supported the
operations.                                                     Government’s national health agenda.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                 27

                                                                          CHAIRPERSON’S
                                                                               STATEMENT

PROFIT BEFORE TAX               Supporting the Nation’s Wellbeing         We continue to partner the authorities
                                                                          and healthcare stakeholders, exploring
RM284.5                         Since our establishment in 1963, DLMI     avenues to increase access to nutrition
                                has contributed much to the nation’s      in our quest to a healthier Malaysia.
MILLION                         wellbeing. Consistently aligned to our
                                core purpose, we continue to deliver      People
REVENUE                         innovative dairy products. We remain
RM1.13 BILLION                  very excited to support and nourish       We stand proud in recognition of
                                the generations of Malaysians yet to      our people who make DLMI and our
+3%                             come.                                     brands great. It is their expertise and
                                                                          experience that drives our continued
RM32                            To elevate our overall business           business growth.
                                operations, DLMI has infused our
MILLION                         Leadership Philosophy into our            During the ongoing pandemic, our
                                everyday operations, to maximise our      primary focus has been on ensuring
dividends paid to shareholders  business foundation model on the 4Ps:     the safety, health and mental wellbeing
                                Purpose, People, Performance and          of our people. Besides the mandatory
It is indeed heartening         Potential.                                requirements, we implemented
to see children grow up                                                   further measures such as frequent
on these products and in        Purpose                                   testing using Rapid Test Kits, driving
turn, nourish their own                                                   vaccination campaigns, pushing the
children with the same          Throughout our 58 years of operating      work-from-home approach for office-
trusted brand. We are           in the country, DLMI has remained         based employees with full focus
deeply gratified that it is     steadfast to our purpose of Nourishing    to support our primary processes,
Malaysians, our customers,      Our Nation by encouraging the             manufacturing and sales.
who have made DLMI the          consumption of nutritious milk
No. 1 dairy company in          products. We now have a wide range        Having an agile mindset and framework
Malaysia.                       of well-loved iconic products, covering   proved hugely beneficial in adapting to
                                our Dutch Lady Liquid Milk range, Dutch   these changes. This helped to ensure
                                Lady and Friso Gold formulated milk       a seamless transition to a digital
                                powder for children, and Yogurt range.    platform, with employees using virtual
                                                                          tools and data analytics in day-to-day
                                It is indeed heartening to see children   decision making and adapting to the
                                grow up on these products and in turn,    New Way of Working.
                                nourish their own children with the
                                same trusted brand. We are deeply         Performance
                                gratified that it is Malaysians, our
                                customers, who have made DLMI the         Our 2021 results showing internal
                                No. 1 dairy company in Malaysia.          topline growth is a strong testament
                                                                          to the strength of our trusted brands
                                We shoulder this responsibility as a      to meet the needs of consumers in
                                sacred trust. DLMI strongly supports      this fast-paced and rapidly evolving
                                the Government’s national health          environment. To our valued customers,
                                agenda regarding non-communicable         we extend our heartfelt thanks for your
                                diseases, i.e., stunting, obesity and     strong support and confidence.
                                micronutrient deficiencies in children.
                                To boost nutritional levels of our dairy  DLMI is cognisant that in order to
                                products, we constantly reformulate       grow market share, productivity
                                our products based on consumer            and profitability are critical factors.
                                research and nutritional deficiencies.    Immersed in a performance-oriented
                                This includes reducing sugar and fat      culture, DLMI is committed to increase
                                content as well as increasing calcium,    productivity across all aspects of its
                                protein, vitamins and minerals.           operation, from logistics of supply, to
                                                                          storage and distribution.
28                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT

Our winning profitability formula which has served us well in
2021 will continue well into 2022. We will strive to achieve our
topline numbers and align our business parameters with the
environmental outlook. The business will keep close watch
on our mix, pricing and stock levels as well as managing
costs and maintaining a healthy cash level. Achieving our
target gross margin will enable us to continue to invest in
our key assets - our strong brands and committed staff.

With this combination of factors, we are confident we will
continue to achieve our targets now and for years to come.

Potential

As Malaysia remains a very important market with a bright         Sustainability across our value chain is a
outlook, we will be investing RM400 million in our new            critical element in our business, ensuring
manufacturing plant at Techpark in Bandar Enstek, Negeri          our ability to provide trusted quality,
Sembilan to support the company’s long-term expansion             safe and affordable nutrition to a growing
plans in Malaysia. This demonstrates DLMI’s continued             population. We call this our ‘Grass to
commitment to nurturing the goodness of milk and growing          Glass’ philosophy.
milk consumption in Malaysia.
                                                                  These areas are further aligned with FrieslandCampina’s
This upcoming facility, at close to 33 acres, is three times      ‘Nourishing A Better Planet’, which in turn drives support
the size of our existing factory in Petaling Jaya and will allow  for 7 out of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development
us to double our production capacity. It was chosen for its       Goals.
strategic location, connected by excellent infrastructure and
road linkages to all urban centres and ports. Additionally,       In the course of creating high-quality affordable nutritional
it is located within an Industrial Park with Halal status,        products as our main objective and nourishing our
a distinctive advantage in the local market.                      nation, we also remember that water management is a
                                                                  core component of DLMI’s Sustainability roadmap. DLMI
We take great pride in building a Smart Factory with              embarked on a tributary cleaning project of Sungai Penchala
Industry 4.0 standards that will create a myriad of future        to revitalise its ecosystem from August to December 2021.
opportunities to benefit the nation. Our new facility will        We welcome future collaborations with other businesses,
also incorporate green and high-technology, improved              residents, students, state agencies and local government so
sustainability and efficiencies with future innovations that      we can work together and learn to be better river guardians
include energy efficient utilities, zero-losses processing,       together.
reuse of rainwater as well as improved recyclability.
                                                                  At industry level, DLMI will continue to play an active role in
DLMI will continue adopting new strategies to ensure              driving and advocating the recyclable and circular packaging
continuity and sustainability of the business to win in the       agenda through the Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
market.                                                           (MAREA), aiming ultimately for a sustainable, recycling
                                                                  ecosystem.
Sustainability Commitment

Sustainability across our value chain is a critical element in
our business, ensuring our ability to provide trusted quality,
safe and affordable nutrition to a growing population.
We call this our ‘Grass to Glass’ philosophy.

On this philosophy, we have built our Company’s                   We are also part of the CEO Action Network (CAN), a closed-
sustainability roadmap, outlining four specific areas:            door peer-to-peer informal network of CEOs and Board
Nourishing Malaysians with better and affordable nutrition,       members, focusing on sustainability advocacy, capacity
leading sustainable actions at the farm, striving for a           building and action and performance. Such networking
balance with nature via our carbon footprint reduction and        opens up opportunities to forge partnerships that are
post-consumption initiatives.                                     committed to responsible business practices and sustainable
                                                                  development.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                            29

                                                                                     CHAIRPERSON’S
                                                                                          STATEMENT

Industry Awards and Recognition                                                      In 2021, we welcomed Darren Kong
                                                                                     Kam Seong to DLMI as our newest
I am proud to share that we won 2 gold and 1 bronze award at the Employee            member of the Board. We also saw
Experience Awards Malaysia 2021.                                                     several changes to our management
                                                                                     team. DLMI’s Managing Director, Tarang
1. Best Employee Wellness Strategy (Gold)                                            Gupta left the Company to further his
2. Best Organisation Upskilling and Reskilling Strategy (Gold)                       career at FrieslandCampina in the
3. Best Crisis Management & Leadership (Bronze)                                      Philippines and he was succeeded by
                                                                                     DLMI’s Marketing Director of Consumer
1                   2  3                                                             Dairy, Ramjeet Kaur Virik. We then bid
                                                                                     farewell to our Sales Director, Katrina
The Employee Experience Awards rewards top-notch Human Resource (HR) teams           Neo as she embarked on a new career
and individuals with business stories that inspire, educate and move the dial on     and we warmly welcomed Wilson Chua,
employee experience and are judged by a panel of top HR leaders.                     our National Customer Development
                                                                                     Manager who assumed the role of
This recognition serves as an amazing testimony of a truly nourishing organisation   Sales Director. We also welcomed
and the impact made by nurturing our people via Body.Mind.Soul (BMS) and             Anjali Menon, our new Human
growing our people through talent development.                                       Resource Director as Sharon Foo
                                                                                     began the next phase of her journey
I am also immensely proud that DLMI continues to be the strong number 1 dairy        at FrieslandCampina as well as Inderjit
company* in Malaysia in 2021, with Dutch Lady leading in the liquid milk and         Singh who joined us as Head of Internal
mainstream IFT segments.                                                             Audit. We thank Tarang, Katrina and
                                                                                     Sharon for their contribution to the
Our other brand, Friso Gold, was also awarded The Motherhood Choice Award            Company.
2021 by The World Brands Foundation (TWBF). The Motherhood’s Choice Award
seeks out favorite brands for pregnancy, maternity, toddler and kids’ products and   Acknowledgement
services in line with the Government’s commitment to regulate and improve child
safety measures and aims to showcase top quality, safe and innovative products       Whilst the pandemic continues to
that are endorsed by mothers from all over the world.                                significantly roil social and economic
                                                                                     networks almost everywhere in the
*Dairy includes liquid milk, infant milk, yogurt/yogurt drink/cultured milk          world, it has also demonstrated that
                                                                                     people are able to face these challenges
Dividends                                                                            head on and adapt for better outcomes.
                                                                                     I have seen this resilience and grit in
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, a total of RM32 million was paid   our Management team, employees and
out as standard and special interim dividends to shareholders. This represents a     business partners alike and applaud
13% distribution of the Company’s net profit attributable to shareholders. I wish    them for their commendable team
to remind shareholders that the payment of any special and extraordinary interim     spirit.
dividends is very much dependent on the Company’s profitability, business and
operational needs during the year as well as for the future.                         I take this opportunity to also thank
                                                                                     the members of the Board for their
Board and Management Changes                                                         dedication and direction in guiding
                                                                                     the company progressively forward
In 2021, we saw some changes to the Board composition. I assumed the role of         through this very challenging period.
Chairperson, following the close of the Company’s 58th Annual General Meeting
(AGM). I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih  Looking at the team we have, the
for being Chairman and Independent Director of the Board for 12 years and I wish     resources, the experience and
to extend our utmost gratitude to him for his contribution through the years.        expertise, I have every confidence that
                                                                                     DLMI will continue to persevere with
                                                                                     high performance and success in the
                                                                                     year ahead.

                                                                                     #NourishingOurNation
                                                                                     #StrongMeStrongerUs

                                                                                     Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
                                                                                     Chairperson
30                                          Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS

Nourishing by Nature

Distributing over

180,000
milk packs

to key frontliners and
partnered various
Non-Government
Organisations, Key
Opinion Leaders and
Foodbanks

Our Dairy Development   Ramjeet Kaur Virik    Datin Seri Sunita
Programme (DDP) has                         Mei-Lin Rajakumar
helped produce          Executive Director
                                                               Chairperson
37.9 million

LITRES OF MILK
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                     31

                                                                        MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                              & ANALYSIS

                    Purpose: Nourishing Our Nation                      Everything we do at Dutch Lady
                    During Unprecedented Times                          Milk Industries Berhad’s (DLMI) is
                                                                        driven by our Purpose. Nourishing
                    Everything we do at DLMI is driven by our           Our Nation with trusted and
                    Purpose. Nourishing Our Nation with trusted         sustainable dairy nutrition, is our
                    and sustainable dairy nutrition, is our mantra to   mantra to continue to achieve
                    continue to achieve accelerated growth. More so     accelerated growth.
                    during this COVID-19 pandemic and beyond, we
                    continued to empower Malaysians to focus on         As an organisation categorised in the ‘essential’
                    nutrition. As a leading dairy company in Malaysia,  sector, DLMI was given the necessary approvals
                    we support the Government’s national health         by the Government to operate during the
                    agenda to mitigate the public health crisis such    Movement Control Order, hence allowing us to
                    as non-communicable diseases i.e. stunting,         continue advocating the Government’s national
                    obesity and micronutrient deficiencies in children  health.
                    to improve the nutritional status of Malaysians.
                                                                        In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, pivoting
                    Nourishing Our Nation guided by our leadership      was necessary to help us navigate unprecedented
                    philosophy focusing on our 4Ps: Purpose, People,    times while continuing to meet the needs of
                    Performance and Potential has helped us meet        our consumers. We realised the importance of
                    the needs of our shareholders, consumers and        delivering products, experiences and services
                    communities, while caring for our environment.      that meet our customers’ new needs with
                    This strategy helps us address key challenges       empathy and care during the pandemic. Our
                    facing our Company during the COVID-19              agility helped us to evolve quickly as we observed
                    pandemic including a highly competitive             shifts in the behaviour of consumers during the
                    operating environment, a rapidly changing retail    pandemic. From a conventional journey, we have
                    landscape, and an ever evolving regulatory, social  embarked on a new, unexplored one. We have
                    and cultural landscape.                             learned to adapt and adopt new ways of working.
                                                                        More importantly, it has also taught us how to
                                                                        turn adversity into opportunity.

                    PURPOSE                                             Besides ensuring full product availability
                                 PEOPLE                                 throughout these challenging times, including
                                              PERFORMANCE               the floods at the end of 2021 that impacted many
                                                            POTENTIAL   different communities across the country, DLMI
                                                                        continued to nourish key frontliners and partnered
                                                                        various Non-Government Organisations, Key
                                                                        Opinion Leaders and Foodbanks by distributing
                                                                        over 180,000 milk packs. We take great pride
                                                                        in being able to make a difference in society by
                                                                        supporting our Rakyat.
32                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS

Driving The Nation’s Sustainable Dairy Farming                    Tributary Cleaning: Revitalisation of Sungai Penchala
                                                                  Ecosystem
DLMI achieved a milestone in April 2021 when we
established a strategic public-private partnership by signing     Public-private partnerships are vital in mapping and
a Memorandum of Collaboration with the Department of              addressing environmental and societal needs. DLMI is happy
Veterinary Services (DVS) to boost our nation’s supply of         to lead the path for effective and sustainable measures to
quality local fresh milk and to achieve a fully sustainable       ensure sustainable development of our river ecosystem -
milk supply for the future. The collaboration allows DLMI         a key natural resource we need to preserve. As such, DLMI
to partner the Government, especially the Ministry of             began tributary cleaning of Sungai Penchala in partnership
Agriculture and Food Industry to support the growth of the        with Selangor Maritime Gateway, an initiative by the
local dairy industry. This is in line with the Government’s goal  Selangor Government to clean, rehabilitate and develop
to achieve 100 percent Self-Sufficiency of local fresh milk by    areas along the Sungai Klang ecosystem to make it an
2025 as part of the National Dairy Industry Development           engine of growth for the state. During the clean-up from 15
Programme. Since 2011, our Dairy Development Programme            August right up to 31 December 2021, a total of 11.1 metric
(DDP) has helped produce 37.9 million litres of milk while our    ton of waste was removed from Sungai Penchala. DLMI has
Farmer2Farmer (F2F) Programme has benefitted more than            also recently embarked on a partnership with the Global
536 farmers. In 2021, we introduced a new digital F2F format      Environment Centre, a highly reputable organisation that
that revolved around video blogs and was aptly named F2F          shares a common goal in caring for the environment with
Vlogs. Via this initiative, a total of 70 local dairy farmers     various activities and solutions driven on river care. We
were trained virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic.              look forward to supporting relevant activities pertaining
                                                                  to the river care of Sungai Penchala especially in driving
Environmental Sustainability                                      greater effectiveness in river monitoring in the community
                                                                  via education and provision of the right infrastructure
DLMI is constantly working to reduce our environmental            and tools. Our tributary cleaning efforts were recognised
footprint. Efforts to care for our environment are practiced      by the Selangor state government to be amongst the five
every day across our business for example through purchasing      key public-private collaborations involved in the cleaning,
100% green electricity. As such, we’re committed to using         rehabilitation and sustainable development of Klang river.
less energy and water, reducing waste and decreasing
emissions. In 2021, we achieved an Energy ratio of 1.20 GJ/       We realise that that greater collaboration is critical for
ton and Water ratio of 3.23 m3/ton against the budgeted           efficient sustainable plans, particularly in shaping broader
1.12 GJ/ton and 3.59 m3/ton, respectively. This was done by       solutions. We will continuously engage with our local
implementing a few mechanical and systematical initiatives        community in Petaling Jaya to join us in this mission as we
including energy recovery from steam condensate, reducing         strive to catalyse meaningful and substantial change for our
and reusing water usage from our manufacturing facility,          river and ecosystem.
compressed air optimisation through installation of booster
pumps and air receiver tanks as well as energy conservation.      Investing in our PEOPLE: People Growth = Business
                                                                  Growth
Energy ratio                  Water ratio
                                                                  Our Purpose, next to our brand, would not be realised
Achieved                      Achieved                            without our greatest asset: our PEOPLE. When COVID-19 hit
                                                                  Malaysia, it reshaped the landscape of work and productivity
1.20 GJ/ton                   3.23 m3/ton                         as health and safety took priority, which carried on through
                                                                  2021. Staying strong and connected together during
              budgeted                     budgeted               this unprecedented time was pivotal, even more so with
              1.12 GJ/ton                  3.59 m3/ton            the various location demographics in the workforce: the
                                                                  manufacturing plant, our corporate office and field workforce
                                                                  – where the method of care and attention differs. With all
                                                                  these external challenges, the collective contributions and
                                                                  strength of our People, mattered more than ever.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                                  33

                                                                                      MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                                            & ANALYSIS

Through the course of 2021, we had carried out various         Winning Through Volatility – Body.Mind.Soul (BMS)
initiatives in ensuring our People stayed connected through
strong adoption of CARE (C-Connected; A-Appreciated;           The current volatile business landscape represents a challenge
R-Responsive; E-Energised) principles, wellness initiatives    to employees where mental, spiritual and physical energies
to remain engaged and energised, and enabled a forward,        are shifting. This amplified the relevance of personal energy
flexible way of working through Agile Transformation.          management - that an Engaged, Enabled, and Energised
                                                               workforce is key in motivating our business forward.
Despite all external challenges, we continue to invest in our
People, and will continue doing so for years to come.          In 2021, many wellness-focused initiatives were deployed via
                                                               our Employee Engagement model, Body.Mind.Soul (BMS),
Capability Building                                            which included:

We remain committed and passionate about talent                1                      10 virtual fitness sessions (Zumba, Muay Thai)
                                                                                      10 virtual Mindfulness sessions
management and development as our employees are drivers

of sustainable success. Hence, various initiatives have been

deployed to enhance capability building:
                                                                                   2

01                                                                                    10 Talk sessions by doctors, medical

          Local employee participation in                      3                      professionals, clinical psychologists: focused
          FrieslandCampina Academy programmes
          (Nourishing Leadership, Future Leader) – in                                 on Health and Wellness, Mental Health, and
          developing the next class of high potential
          leaders                                                                     Employee Care (COVID-19, Vaccination Isolation)

                                                                                      3 mini competitions (DLMI What’s Cookin’),

02                                                             4                      also in conjunction with festivities and RFC’s

    Driving Coaching Culture via the Solution                                         Diversity Month
    Focused Coaching programme (74 pax
    which accounts for 75% of our Business                     5                      3 Milk Donation Drives in partnership with
    Leadership Team + selected Talent across
    DLMI involving up to 3,552 man-hour                                               Blue Brigade
    spent)

                                                               6                      27 Relax with Ramjeet Sessions from August

                                                                                      to November 2021

03  Enterprise Agile Transformation:
    Introducing the Agile fundamentals; Agile
    Coaching (Total 106 pax of employees has                                          9 Energy Workshop sessions for Departments
    went through Agile Fundamental training;
    768 of Agile coaching hours)                               7                      (Resilience Strategies for Transformational

                                                                                      Change) and Team Energisers (Terrarium and

                                                                                      The Map)

                                                               8                      13 Fun Visuals (internal communication) on

04                                                                                    Self-Care, Mental Health, and Gratitude

    Employee Growth and Development:                           9                      3 informative visuals during notable
    10,259 training man-hours from 81 training
    programmes completed by our employees                                             International World Days
    throughout the year in 2021, this translate
    to average of 12.28 hours per employee in
    DLMI. Compulsory syllabus established

                                                               10                     1 Employee Assistance Provider – NALURI

                                                                                      (Support Hotline)
34                                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS

Celebrating notable International World Days – the highlights:                    With the support and direction from
                                                                                  the top management as well as strong
International             World                                 World Mental      inter-department collaboration, all
Women’s Day:          Health Day:                                Health Day:      this was made possible through our
                                                                                  USP: a strong adoption of the ‘CARE’
  Talk session with    Talk Session with            Talk session by               principles.
Malaysian celebrity,  Doctor on Diabetes         clinical psychologist
                                                                                  Many initiatives were deployed as
  JoJo Struys, on                                  from NALURI on                 follows:
       wellness                                  managing COVID-19
                                                 in a post-pandemic                 1 Keeping employees

                                                          reality                         informed on COVID-19 SOPs
                                                                                          and developments

Body.Mind.Soul is a continuous program while riding the waves of volatility, in   2 COVID-19 on-site Testing
keeping our People feeling energised, supported, and valued. For now, we are
encouraged knowing that with this employee experience, our PEOPLE remain               (Factory)
energised to continue WINNING through volatility.

From the above, honouring HR’s commitment to workplace transformation as well     3 RTK Home Saliva Test Kits
as growing and nurturing our People, we have won 2 GOLD and 1 BRONZE Awards
at the 2021 Employee Experience Awards Malaysia, external awards, that rewards          for Office Employees
top-notch HR teams and individuals with business stories that inspire, educate
and move the dial on employee experience (EX). The awards are judged by a panel   4 COVID-19 Vaccination (Stats:
of top HR leaders.
                                                                                        99% Fully Vaccinated as at
  Best Employee           Best Organisation            Best Crisis                      31 December 2021)
Wellness Strategy     Upskilling and Reskilling     Management &
                                                 Leadership (Bronze)              5 Distribution of Care Packs
        (Gold)              Strategy (Gold)
                                                                                        (Masks, Vitamin C, Hand
Body.Mind.                   Agile                               C.A.R.E                Sanitiser)
Soul. (BMS)           Transformation                            Principles

                                                                                  6 EAP Support – Mental

                                                                                       Health (isolation)

This recognition serves as a strong testimony of a truly Nourishing organisation  7 Talks by doctors to ease fear,
and the impact made: People Growth = Business Growth!
                                                                                        uncertainties on COVID-19
Keeping People Connected During Unprecedented Times                                     and COVID-19 Vaccination

In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on businesses, Dutch Lady Milk   8 Talks on managing isolation
Industries Berhad has undergone many sudden changes to adapt to the crisis: the
organisation resorted to a full Working From Home (WFH), implemented changes            and stress (well-being)
in shift for Productions, and there was the urgent need for DLMI to continuously
Nourish Malaysians with our trusted dairy nutrition.                              9 Charity Opportunities (Milk

With all these rapid changes during these unprecedented times, the strength and         Donation) via Blue Brigade
contributions of our People mattered more than ever to ensure that business
stayed afloat, stemming from the organisation’s Purpose to Nourish Malaysians.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                  35

                                                      MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                            & ANALYSIS

10 COVID-19 Vaccination for employees: In collaboration with Corporate              With the leadership of People
                                                                                    Organisation in providing CARE for our
      Affairs and PIKAS                                                             employees through the Blue Brigade,
                                                                                    ultimately, the satisfaction of the
11                                                                                  whole organisation emerging stronger
                                                                                    together during unprecedented times
      Buddy System for COVID-19 Positive staff                                      in fulfilling our Purpose, is priceless.

12                                                                                  Embracing the new normal:
                                                                                    Return To Office
      COVID-19 Allowance
                                                                                    The COVID-19 pandemic has changed
13                                                                                  the work landscape and redefined the
                                                                                    way we work, collaborate and interact
      Support framework – Employee Death by COVID-19                                with each other. To remain productive
                                                                                    and competitive and also riding the
14                                                                                  waves of volatility (with so many SOP
                                                                                    changes, etc), it was important to
      COVID-19 Vaccination Leave granted                                            review the existing process and focus
                                                                                    on what makes sense to employees in
                                                                                    DLMI.

 15 Visuals on Appreciation, Self-Care, and Gratitude, recognising signs of         In embracing the new normal, the
                                                                                    Return To Office (RTO) initiative was
        anxiety, depression, burnout                                                introduced and designed to enable a
                                                                                    flexible way of working, where the office
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Our Purpose                                  is utilised for collaboration activities
                                                                                    and facilitates employees working out
In emphasising the CARE principles, partnerships with DLMI Blue Brigade             of office. The RTO also at the same
(employee-led CSR team) in carrying out various initiatives such as mobilising      time, promotes inclusion as the needs,
support during times of crisis, ensuring that DLMI continues to fulfil our Purpose  personalities and demographics of
of Nourishing Malaysians with our trusted dairy nutrition:                          employees were carefully considered.

      Milk Donation                                     Milk Donations              The last few months of 2021
 initiatives for people                                  to childrens’              represented a pilot for the Return
impacted by the recent                                                              To Office, a test and learn – where
                                                      homes, charitable             employees had their Team Days
   Klang Valley flash                                   organisations               Rosters, parking arrangement and Our
           floods                                                                   Way of Working (OWOW) Subsidy and
                                                                                    Enablers communicated.
                         Milk Donations to
                               schools                                              Employees inputs, suggestions,
                                                                                    corporation to SOP compliance and
                                                                                    constructive feedback on RTO were
                                                                                    also greatly valued during this time –
                                                                                    truly emphasising the made BY YOU,
                                                                                    FOR YOU element!
36                                       Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS

Diversity and Inclusion                  This partnership will therefore permit and accelerate the overarching objective
                                         of increasing women’s representation at the leadership level and across entire
In 2018, McKinsey & Co. corroborated     organisations and the marketplace.
that Gender equality drives economic
growth and improves business             For DLMI, the key opportunities are to support driving gender equality and moving
performance. USD 4.5 trillion            into 2022, the focus would be Psychological Safety and Inclusion.
could be added to the Asia Pacific
economics by 2025 through advancing      Performance: Winning Inside and Outside!
women’s equality. By having balanced
representation in management,            While we have been true to our purpose in Nourishing Malaysian, 2021 has really
businesses can boost revenue by 19%.     been the year where that purpose is clearly brought to live. Movement Control
                                         Orders (MCO) has changed the way consumer consume and perceive dairy. Not
For this reason, DLMI Board of           only the nutritional value of our milk is highly appreciated during this time,
Directors are deliberately equally       the delicious taste of our products has also leads to various creative ways of
gender balanced, setting the right tone  consumptions during this unprecedented time.
at the top. Similarly, our Management
Team is also equally gender balanced,    All this has led to strong overall volume growth of +7% vs 2020. Within the total
something we are really proud of as an   Dairy category, our market share improved to 26.6% (+1p.p. vs 2020 and +2.9p.p
organisation.                            vs 2019, Nielsen Retail Audit Dec 2021), where we remain a strong #1 Dairy
                                         Player in Malaysia, showing the trust and connection we have with our Malaysian
             Management Team             consumers.

50%                50%                   Within Consumer Dairy segment, after a spike in 2020 due to lockdown and
                                         panic buying, the Liquid Milk category normalised in 2021 with -1% value decline.
                                         Despite the category decline, Dutch Lady continued to drive growth of +4%, giving
                                         us 38.7% value share (+2p.p. vs 2020, Nielsen Retail Audit Dec 2021) further
                                         strengthening our market leadership. Dutch Lady is also high on household
                                         penetration, with almost 6 out of 10 households in Malaysia consuming Dutch
                                         Lady products (52 wks, Kantar HH Panel, Dec 2021).

     Male  Female                        The growth is contributed by the continuous efforts to ensure supply continuity
                                         despite restrictions and SOPs, and impactful consumer campaigns such as
DLMI is committed to sustaining an       Ramadan & Morning Campaigns, and successful innovation such as Dutch Lady
inclusive and high performing culture.   Banana Flavored Milk range, Juicy Milk Mango and reinventing our communication
In 2021, DLMI’s Board of Directors       approach to stay connected to our consumers during the new norm.
together with the Managing Director
(previous), Tarang Gupta, had signed
the Women’s Empowerment Principles
(WEPs), established by the UN Women
and United Nations Global Compact.

The signing of the WEPs demonstrates
robust commitment by CEOs, of the
highest calibre, to collaborate with
multi-stakeholder networks on issues
such as increased representation of
women in key decision-making roles,
equal pay for work of equal value,
gender-responsive supply chain
practices and zero tolerance against
sexual harassment in the workplace.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                            37

                                                                MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                      & ANALYSIS

                                                                2021 has not only changed the way consumer consumed
                                                                dairy. It has also changed the way consumer shop which lead
                                                                to emerging of the e-commerce channel for convenience
                                                                and increased relevancy of neighborhood stores like
                                                                99Speedmart and Baby Stores which show growth of 16%
                                                                vs PY. With the growth of neighborhood stores, hypermarket
                                                                suffers a sharp decline of 17% due to lower traffic. With
                                                                all the changes in the channel dynamic in 2021, our sales
                                                                team has also adapted our approach to ensure product’s
                                                                availability across the country.

The Mainstream Growing Up milk (GUM) for 1-3 years              At the same time, 2021 has also been a year where data
old experienced a decline compared to previous year as          automation has been accelerated. Usage of data for
consumers balance their overall spend impacted by the           market insights by our sales team has helped in improving
pandemic. This lead to a 12% category decline in penetration    operational efficiency and improve brands profitability
(Kantar 52 week Dec 2021) with a similar drop for the Dutch     through effective promotions. At the same time keep up with
Lady GUM Brand. The decline for the GUM Mainstream also         the ever-changing retail landscape to cater to the shopper
reflected a 5% drop in value vs the previous year, however      behavior and needs.
Dutch Lady GUM sales remained rather flat resulting in an
increase in value share in the mainstream segment to 43.6%.     Winning Profitably in unprecedented and uncertain times
This is contributed by our key 2021 meaningful campaign;
Dana Sejuta Harapan in quarter two of 2021. The campaign        Despite stricter COVID-19 restrictions, DLMI realised a
sought to benefit both the parent and child, whereby we         3% revenue growth versus 2020. The revenue growth is
worked with SSPN-i to award 40 Child Education funds (with      resulting from continued strong in-home consumption of our
Insurance plan) and 160 smart devices to aid children in        three main categories – Dutch Lady liquid milk, Dutch Lady
their education while away from school.                         Growing Up Milk and Friso Growing Up Milk Products. During
                                                                the COVID-19 pandemic DLMI has been able to continue to
Efforts also continue in the Specialised Diet segment of        drive its purpose of Nourishing the Malaysian people.
MaxGro to support the Optimal Growth of Malaysian children
in an effort to minimise the Stunting issue faced in Malaysia.  Profit performance details are broken down in profit
MaxGro has gained 4.5% value share in this segment in           resulting from sales of products sourced from the existing
the past year since launch with an expansion of portfolio in    manufacturing facilities (profit from existing operations) and
second half of the year with larger pack sizes and portion      reported profit including the exceptional results in relation
packs and now has achieved third position within this           to the construction of the future manufacturing expansion
segment.                                                        in Bandar Baru Enstek.

In 2021, Friso Gold continued to dial up product superiority    Profit before tax from existing operations is improving
via the launch of Novas Signature Milk which contains small     to RM142.8 million at index 141 versus previous year on
molecules & soft structure, high-quality milk produced          the back of a strong focus to improve long-term business
by our farms & premium bred cows in the Netherlands to          profitability. Increasing input cost as a result of increasing
enable Good Digestion for Stronger Inside. We leveraged         global dairy raw materials, supply chain disruptions, one-
on 150 years’ celebration of our Dutch Dairy heritage in Q3,    off COVID cost are more than offset by topline growth,
2021 to further amplify brand trust & expertise. Having a       focus on Revenue Growth Management activities (e.g. mix
pool of strong advocates called Friso Gold Mombassadors,        management of channel and portfolio) and improvement
we led digital share of voice and positive sentiments were      of the Return on Investment of commercial activities. This
up to 10x more than the next brand. As a result, Friso hit the  result is a testament to DLMI’s focus to Win Profitably
highest number of buyers for IFFO & GUM (Kantar, 24 weeks       supported by an agile mindset and relying on usage of data
data), doubling up GUM buyers by Nov ‘21, contributed by a      in all our decision making.
strong focus in driving penetration. This led to Friso hitting
its highest market share (YTD Nov ‘21 @ 10.3%) in the past      During the year 2021, prices of global dairy raw materials
3 years.                                                        have been escalating resulting from continued strong global
                                                                demand for milk as an essential good, lower production of
                                                                milk in large milk producing countries and continued supply
                                                                chain disruptions leading to delays of incoming goods.
38                                                                                    Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS

Reported profit in 2021 DLMI is             Outlook                                   Reported profit in 2021
exceptionally high resulting from the                                                 DLMI is exceptionally
completion of the sales of the land         For 2022 economic recovery is             high resulting from the
underlying the manufacturing facilities     anticipated, however unprecedented        completion of the sales of
in Petaling Jaya. This income is partially  inflationary headwinds are making         the land underlying the
offset by the start of accelerated          the outlook for 2022 uncertain and        manufacturing facilities in
depreciation of existing assets that will   volatile. Due to global supply chain      Petaling Jaya.
not be transitioned to the new site in      challenges and strong demand for
Bandar Baru Enstek. Reported profit         milk as an essential product, prices of   COMPANY SOLVENCY
before tax is RM284.5 million at index      global dairy raw materials are affected
292 versus previous year.                   and are at an all-time high. Global       88%            27%
                                            uncertainties can continue to impact
Cashflow from operating activities was      the economic situation and foreign        2021           2020
at negative RM15 million inclusive of       exchange developments.
a prepayment to a related company                                                     ABSOLUTE CASH
amounting to RM126 million. When            DLMI will stay focused on its purpose of  DEVELOPMENT
excluding the prepayment cashflow           ‘Nourishing Malaysians with its trusted
from operating activities is at RM111       and sustainable dairy nutrition’.         RM118.3
million which is a decrease of RM33         In order to deliver on this purpose       million
million versus 2020 mainly resulting        healthy gross margins are essential in
from higher input cost and requirements     order to continue to invest behind our    2021
to build inventory to weather the global    brands and people. These assets will
supply chain challenges.                    drive long term engagement with DLMI      RM38.9
                                            as an employer of choice and continue     million
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE)         to increase penetration of milk.
increased to RM206 million resulting                                                  2020
from the start-up of the investment         DLMI is determined to invest in
in the new manufacturing facilities         Malaysia even in these trying times.
in Bandar Baru Enstek offset by the         In 2020, we announced the plans to
write-off of the land and buildings         invest RM400 million between the
underlying existing facilities in Petaling  years of 2021 and 2025 for our future
Jaya as part of the completion of the       manufacturing activities.
beforementioned sale of land.
                                            DLMI will continue to focus on
Based on our 2021 result, DLMI paid         optimising the companies cashflow to
to its shareholders a total of RM32.0       battle the inflationary headwinds and
million in interim dividends consisting     secure sufficient funding of the new
of two standard dividends of RM0.25         manufacturing facilities.
each.
                                            Over the long term, the outlook
   Cashflow from operating                  for DLMI remains positive due to
   activities                               the strength of our brands, and the
                                            increasing need and recognition of the
      RM111 million RM144 million           goodness and nutritional value of milk
                                            amongst Malaysians.

2021  2020
40                                                                                    Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES

Principle             A  Principle                 B                                  Principle  C

Board Leadership and     Effective Audit and Risk                                     Integrity in Corporate
Effectiveness            Management                                                   Reporting and Meaningful
                                                                                      Relationship with
More information         More information                                             Stakeholders
please refer page 41     please refer page 56
                                                                                                 More information
                                                                                                 please refer page 58

Introduction                                                                          The Board is pleased to report on
                                                                                      governance compliance activities
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI”         adopted in line with the Principles
or “Company”) is fully committed to maintaining a high standard of Corporate          as set out in the Code that were
Governance within the Company through its support and application of the              applied throughout the financial year
principles and practices as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance     ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021”)
2021 (“Code”). DLMI’s Corporate Governance framework lays down the structure,         in this Corporate Governance
processes and lines of authority that governs how its businesses are directed,        Overview Statement (“CG Overview
managed and controlled while ensuring compliance with the applicable laws, rules      Statement”). The Principles have, in
and regulations, the Company’s Constitution and adherence to good Corporate           all material respects, been applied
Governance practices. The Board believes that a sound Corporate Governance            to achieve their intended outcomes,
structure is essential for the mitigation of risks, the cultivation of good business  to the extent that they were found
ethics, and is vital to ensure sustainability and progressive business growth. The    to be suitable and appropriate to
Board shall continue to evaluate its governance practices in response to evolving     the Company’s circumstances.
best practices and changing requirements.                                             Where appropriate, this CG Overview
                                                                                      Statement also seeks to disclose all
                                                                                      information that is required pursuant to
                                                                                      the Main Market Listing Requirements
                                                                                      of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
                                                                                      (“Listing Requirements”) and any
                                                                                      other requirements.

                                                                                      The application of the Practices set out
                                                                                      in the Code throughout FY2021 will also
                                                                                      be disclosed to Bursa Malaysia Securities
                                                                                      Berhad in a prescribed format (“CG
                                                                                      Report”) which will be published together
                                                                                      with the Company’s Annual Report.
                                                                                      The CG Report may be downloaded
                                                                                      from the Company’s corporate website
                                                                                      (www.dutchlady.com.my).
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                  41

                                                                        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                           OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Principle                                                                           GENDER
 A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
                                                                                    5                               3
Board’s Responsibilities
(Practice 1.1)                                                                                  Male     Female

The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the         AGE
direction and oversight of the Company and plays an active role in the development
of Company’s strategy. The Board met regularly throughout the year to approve
the strategic objectives of the Company, to lead the Company within a framework
of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed, and to ensure
that sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives set.

The Board reserves full decision-making powers, after taking into consideration
the policies, procedures and guidelines of the Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”)
Group, on the following matters:

                                                                                         3            4          1

a  Conflict of interest relating to a substantial shareholder or a Director

   or person connected to such substantial shareholder or Director;

b  Material acquisitions and disposition of assets not in the ordinary

   course of business;

                                                                                         40-49        50-59      60-69

c  Investment in capital expenditure projects;                                      TYPE OF DIRECTORSHIP

                                                                                         4            3          1

d  Authority levels;

e  Treasury policies;

f  Risk management policies;                                                        Independent Non-Executive
                                                                                    Directors

                                                                                    Non-Independent Non-Executive
                                                                                    Directors

                                                                                    Executive Directors

g  Key human resource issues; and                                                   TENURE

                                                                                         2            5          1

h  Related party transactions.

                                                                                    <1 years    1-4 years           >4 years
42                                                    Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Board Roles and Their Responsibilities

Chairperson and Managing Director                     Senior Independent Director
(Practice 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4)
                                                      On 25 May 2021, Ms. Saw Chooi Lee succeeded
The roles of the Chairperson and the Managing         Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih as the Board’s Senior
Director (“MD”) are separately held and the division  Independent Director, following Dato’ Zainal’s
of their responsibilities is clearly defined. The     retirement. In this capacity, Ms. Saw provides an
Chairperson is an independent director who has        avenue for shareholders and the Directors to express
never assumed an executive position in the Company.   any concerns that they may have affecting the
The MD is an appointee of the major shareholder and   Company.
heads the Company’s management team.
                                                      Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Chairperson is responsible for the operation and
leadership of the Board. The Chairperson ensures      The Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
that the Board is effective and that the Company is   each occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in
guided by good corporate governance practices. She    industry, bringing valuable external perspectives
facilitates robust dialogue during Board meetings     to the Board’s deliberations through their working
and draws out diverse perspectives from the Board     experience and business insight from other sectors
members. She also ensures that there is a good        enabling them to contribute significantly to Board
balance between the time allocated to governance      decision-making process.
matters and discussions on business performance
and strategies at board meetings.                     Company Secretary
                                                      (Practice 1.5)
The MD is responsible for leading and managing
the Company’s business within a set of authorities    The Company Secretary is a licensed secretary
delegated by the Board. She is also responsible       qualified to act as Company Secretary under
for the implementation of Board strategy and          Section 235 of the Companies Act 2016 and has a
policy. Commencing from 27 September 2021, the        secretarial practicing certificate from the Companies
Chairperson is no longer a member of any of the       Commission of Malaysia under Section 241(4) of
Board committees and the Chairperson does not         the Companies Act 2016. She is a qualified lawyer
attend or otherwise participate in any of these       and provides legal and company secretarial advice
committee meetings.                                   to the Company’s management team and the Board
                                                      as a whole. All Board members have access to the
Independent Directors                                 advice and services of the Company Secretary in
                                                      carrying out their duties. The Company Secretary
The primary responsibility of Independent Non-        facilitates overall compliance and adherence with
Executive Directors is to protect and safeguard       the Listing Requirements, the Companies Act 2016
the interest of minority shareholders and other       and the recommendations in the Malaysian Code on
stakeholders. The effective participation of          Corporate Governance (as amended from time to
Independent Non-Executive Directors serves to         time).
promote greater transparency, accountability and
balance in the Board’s decision making process.

Board Meeting Materials
(Practice 1.6)

Board meeting papers for all meetings are generally provided to Directors seven days in advance of the date of the proposed
meetings. All proceedings of Board meetings are minuted and circulated to the Board members well in advance of the next
Board meeting including with follow up action items duly updated.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                              43

                                                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Board Meeting Attendance

The Board convenes at least four (4) scheduled Board meetings during each financial year. More meetings will be scheduled
depending on business requirements, where appropriate. In FY2021, four (4) Board meetings were held in total. In addition
to the scheduled Board meetings, all of the Board members also attended the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”),
the Company’s Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) and a Budget and Strategy Workshop (“Workshop”).

The Directors’ attendance at Board meetings, the Annual General Meeting, the Extraordinary General Meeting and the
Workshop held for the year ended 31 December 2021 are as follows:-

Board Members                                                  Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
                                                               (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(1)
(Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)

Board Meetings      2/2               AGM EGM Workshop         Board Meetings  4/4                   AGM EGM Workshop

100%                                  1/1 N/A N/A              100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1

Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lee Rajakumar(2)                         Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)              (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Board Meetings      4/4               AGM EGM Workshop         Board Meetings  4/4                   AGM EGM Workshop

100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1              100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1

Mr. Tarang Gupta(3)                                            Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Executive Director)                                           (Independent Non-Executive Director)

Board Meetings                        AGM EGM Workshop         Board Meetings  4/4                   AGM EGM Workshop
                                 2/2
                                      1/1 1/1 1/1              100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1
100%

Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik(4)                                      Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Executive Director)                                           (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Board Meetings      2/2               AGM EGM Workshop         Board Meetings  4/4                   AGM EGM Workshop

100%                                  N/A N/A 1/1              100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1

Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(5)                                           Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(6)
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)                    (Independent Non-Executive Director)

Board Meetings      4/4               AGM EGM Workshop         Board Meetings                        AGM EGM Workshop
                                                                                                3/3
100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1                                                    1/1 1/1 1/1
                                                               100%

Company Secretary                                              Board Meetings  4/4                   AGM EGM Workshop

Ms. Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
(Company Secretary)

                                                               100%                                  1/1 1/1 1/1

Notes:                                                         (4) Appointed as Director on 2 July 2021
(1) Retired as Chairperson and Senior Independent Director on  (5) Re-designated to Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2021
                                                               (6) Appointed as Director on 14 April 2021
      25 May 2021
(2) Appointed as Chairperson on 25 May 2021
(3) Resigned as Director on 2 July 2021
44                                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Key activities                                          • Reviewing the term of office and assess the retirement
During the year, key activities of the Board include:        of Directors by rotation, the retention of Directors and
                                                             eligibility for re-election or retention.

• Reviewing and approving the 4th quarter and full • Reviewing and approving the recommendation for the

year financial results for the financial year ended     proposed director fees and the related benefits to be

31 December 2020.                                       paid to the Non-Executive Directors for FY2022, subject

                                                        to the approval of the shareholders.

• Reviewing and approving the Director’s Report

and Audited Accounts for the financial year ended • Reaffirming and ratifying the Circular Resolutions

31 December 2020.                                       passed by the Board.

• Reviewing and approving the quarterly financial results • Reviewing, approving and noting the Company’s

up to the 3rd quarter for the financial year ended      announcements which had been released to Bursa.

31 December 2021.

                                                        • Evaluating and approving the sale of the Company’s land

• Reviewing the financial report on the Company’s       in Section 13 Petaling Jaya, Selangor and the related

quarterly performance and outlook for the year.         announcement to Bursa.

• Approving dividend payments and reviewing the • Reviewing and approving the circular to shareholders

solvency position of the Company.                       relating to the Company’s sale of its land in Section 13

                                                        Petaling Jaya, Selangor.

• Reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy and

business plans.                                         • Assessing and recommending the re-appointment of

                                                        the Company’s External Auditor for the financial year

• Receiving updates on risk management status and       ending 31 December 2021 and for the Directors to fix

sustainability initiatives.                             their remuneration.

• Attending and participating in the Budget 2022 and • Reviewing and approving the draft Circular to

Strategy Workshop.                                      Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of

                                                        Shareholders’ Mandates for Recurrent Related Party

• Receiving and approving the Company’s Annual Budget   Transaction of revenue or trading nature.

and Capex Budget for FY2022.

                                                        • Reviewing and approving the Statement on Internal

• Reviewing and approving the Company’s Recurrent       Control and Risk Management for the Annual Report

Related Party Transactions, subject to the approval of  2020.

the shareholders.

                                                        • Preparing for and attending the 2021 AGM.

• Receiving updates on the Recurrent Related Party

Transactions by the Company.                            • Preparing for and attending the 2021 EGM.

• Reviewing and approving the updated Board Charter, Board Charter

Terms of Reference of the Audit & Risk Committee, (Practice 2.1)

Terms of Reference of the Nominating and Remuneration

Committee and Remuneration Policy.                      The Board has adopted a Board Charter since 2014, which

                                                        sets out the Board’s strategic intent and outlines the

• Reviewing and approving the Independent Director Board’s roles and responsibilities, the vision, mission, shared

Tenure Policy.                                          values and principles, as well as the policies and strategic

                                                        development of the Company. The Board Charter specifies

• Reviewing the audit report findings of the Internal Audit, clearly the roles and responsibilities of the Board, the Board

its recommendations and Management responses.           Committees, individual directors and management. The

                                                        Board reviews and updates the Charter periodically. The

• Reviewing the audit reports of the External Auditor.  latest update to the Board Charter was approved by the

                                                        Board in November 2021. The Charter is available on the

                                                        Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                          45

                                                                 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Company’s Code of Conduct                                    To further enforce the Company’s zero-tolerance approach
(Practice 3.1)                                                   to bribery and corruption, the Company also requires its
                                                                 business partners to conduct business dealings fairly and
The Board is guided by the RFC code for good business            honestly by requiring them to carry out business in the
conduct which is known as Compass. Compass is designed           manner set out in the Business Practices for Business
to set a certain standard for all employees and officers of      Partners Policy.
the Company. It promotes integrity in the workplace with
focus on safety, rights of employees and human rights,           A copy of the Doing Honest Business - Gifts Policy and
sustainability and avoidance of conflicts of interest. Compass   Business Practices for Business Partners are available on
also promotes integrity in business practices with focus         the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality,
fair competition, and fair communication. Finally, Compass       MACC Corporate Liability
focusses on the protection of the Company’s interests
with focus on protection of confidential information, data       The Company has taken steps to ensure that it is in
protection, integrity of financial reporting and the prevention  compliance with Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
of fraud. Compass plays an important role in the management      Commission Act 2009 (Section 17A) which introduces,
of compliance risks and sets out the values, principles and      amongst others, new corporate liability for companies,
guidelines as to how the Company conducts its business to        arising from corrupt acts committed by employees or person
ensure integrity, transparency and accountability.               associated with the company. The Company continuously
                                                                 takes steps to ensure that its existing anti-bribery and
Compass has, under its purview, underlying policies which        corruption policies and procedures are adequate and meets
includes topics such as Avoiding Conflicts of Interest,          the Guidelines for Adequate Procedures as prescribed by
Protection of Confidential Information, Privacy, Doing Honest    Section 17A. Since then, the Company has continued to
Business (Anti-Bribery and Corruption) and Fair Competition.     review and assess the corruption risks and procedures to
Compass is embedded in the Company’s working culture             ensure that they remain efficient and effective. Trainings,
and encapsulated in the Company’s Employee handbook.             briefings, and communication on the topic were provided to
A copy of Compass is available on the Company’s website at       employees and stakeholders throughout FY2021 to ensure
www.dutchlady.com.my.                                            that the importance and significance of the provision were
                                                                 not overlooked.
Doing Honest Business – the Company’s Anti-Bribery &
Corruption Policy                                                Whistleblowing – the Speak Up Procedure
                                                                 (Practice 3.2)
The Company has adopted RFC’s anti-bribery and corruption
policy which is known as the “Doing Honest Business” policy.     All the Company’s employees and other stakeholders are
This policy, which must be observed by all of the Company’s      strongly encouraged to and have access to its whistle-
directors and employees at all times, is a policy to conduct     blowing procedure known as the “Speak-Up”. The Speak-
business in an honest and ethical manner. The policy has been    Up procedure serves as an avenue for employees and other
localised to set out values in Malaysian Ringgit for easier      stakeholders to voice out their concerns on matters relating
application by the Company’s employees and stakeholders.         to Compass and to raise any suspicions of wrongdoing,
The Company takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery           malpractice or impropriety in the management of the
and corruption and is committed to acting professionally,        Company’s business and affairs. The Speak-Up procedure
fairly and with integrity in all its business dealings and       clearly sets out a well-defined process upon which Compass-
relationships. A Gift and Internal Events and Corporate          related matters can be raised in confidence and anonymity (if
Sponsorship Policy is also contained within this topic which     so requested), in good faith, and without fear of reprisal. The
clearly and prohibits any form of bribery, gratification or      Company has also established a procedure whereby certain
facilitation payments. Employees will be guided by these         Speak Up Reports which are of a financial or fraudulent
policies in their day to day dealings. To ensure that adequate   nature will be escalated to the Company’s Audit & Risk
monitoring of all anti-corruption compliance matters is          Committee. A copy of the Speak Up Procedure is available
carried out, the Company’s Legal Counsel has been charged        on the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
with the responsibility to review and monitor all procedures,
advise and report to Management and the Board of Directors
on these matters.
46                                                             Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Personal Data Protection                                       Tenure of directorship
                                                               (Practice 5.1, 5.3 and 5.4)
The Company handles and uses personal data in accordance
with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (“PDPA”). The       The Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) ensures
Company has adopted the Friesland Campina Privacy Policy       that the composition of the board is refreshed periodically.
which outlines the requirements for the Company and its        To ensure that this is achieved, the Board has in November
employees in handling personal data.                           2021, adopted a policy to limit the tenure of an independent
                                                               director to 9 years without further extension. The policy is
Sustainability                                                 available on www.dutchlady.com.my. Accordingly, there shall
(Practice 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4)                               be no further annual re-election of directors apart from
                                                               those re-elected due to retirement by rotation or retirement
Management is conscious and serious about the Company’s        of those who were appointed during the year (see Practice
responsibility towards sustainability issues and its role in   5.7 below).
the Company’s long-term strategic plans. Management is
committed towards ensuring responsible corporate conduct       Board Composition
is demonstrated and practised in the Company’s daily           (Practice 5.2)
activities across all aspects of the Company’s operations.
The Board together with Management takes responsibility        Currently the Board consists of 4 independent and 4
for the governance of sustainability in the Company including  non-independent directors. Of the 4 non-independent
setting the Company’s sustainability strategies, priorities    directors, 3 are nominees of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V,
and targets. The Board takes into account sustainability       and 1 is a nominee of Permodalan Nasional Berhad. As such,
considerations when exercising its duties including among      a majority (5 out of 8) of the Board members represents the
others the development and implementation of Company           Company’s minority shareholders.
strategies, business plans, major plans of action and
risk management. Strategic management of material              The Company’s major shareholder is a foreign co-operative
sustainability matters are driven by the Management            of farmers. The Board considers that the current composition
and updates are provided to the Board every quarter            fairly reflects the foreign direct investment and the
on the Company’s sustainability challenges, goals and          investment of the minority shareholders. The proportion of
achievements. The Board takes appropriate action to ensure     independent directors ensures effective checks and balances
they stay abreast with and understand the sustainability       on the Board and the independent directors effectively
issues relevant to the Company and its business, including     safeguard the interest of the minority shareholders.
climate-related risks and opportunities.
                                                               Details of all Directors and their biographies are provided in
The performance evaluation of senior Management is carried     the Annual Report.
out in accordance with human resource policies of RFC
group. DLMI’s performance in formulating the Company’s         Appointments to the Board
sustainability strategy and addressing the company’s           (Practice 5.5)
material sustainability goals, risks and opportunities is
a part of the assessment. Sustainability is also taken into    The Company’s Board consists of qualified individuals with
account when evaluating the performance of the Board.          a good mix of operational and commercial experience.
In particular, it is considered during the evaluation whether  Members of the Board have both local and international
conversations on Environmental, Social and Governance          experience and together, they bring a wide range of
(ESG) form part of the Board Agenda and if progress on         competencies, capabilities, technical skills and relevant
sustainability initiatives are monitored at the Board level.   business experience.

Further details on the Company’s sustainability strategy
including the Company’s sustainability priorities and targets
as well as performance against these targets are contained
in the Sustainability Statement.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                        47

                                                               CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                  OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Appointment Process                                        • Strategic Perspective – they understand the implications
(Practice 5.6)                                                      of issues, trends and events on the organisation and its
                                                                    capabilities
In respect of the appointment of all directors, the NRC
considers shortlisted candidates based on their profiles,      • Judgement and Decision Making – they are able to
professional achievements and personality assessments.              understand principal issues and use experience to offer
Appropriate candidates for independent directors are                sound advice
sourced through recruitment firms based on the needs of
the Board. The NRC then ensures that the candidates are        • Teamwork – they work constructively with fellow board
suitable and of sufficient caliber for recommendation for the       members and contributes to board activities and
approval of the Board by reviewing the profiles of candidates       discussions
and where deemed appropriate, conducting interviews with
the shortlisted candidates.                                    • Communication – they are able to express himself
                                                                    clearly and effectively
Election and Re-Election of Directors
(Practice 5.7)                                                 The NRC found that the retiring Directors have performed
                                                               well based on the above performance criteria.
In compliance with the Company’s Constitution, one third of
the Directors shall retire by rotation at each AGM. Directors  In light of the above, the NRC submitted its recommendation
who are appointed during the year shall also retire at the     to the Board and the Board has approved and recommends
next AGM. The Company’s Constitution further provides that     the re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi Lee, Mr. Bernardus
all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every  Hermannus Maria Kodden and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik to the
three years.                                                   shareholders for approval.

In the forthcoming AGM, Ms. Saw Chooi Lee and                  Composition of the Nominating & Remuneration
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden will retire by            Committee
rotation in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s          (Practice 5.8)
Constitution and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik will retire in
accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution as     The NRC establishes for itself the procedure and frequency
she was appointed during the year.                             of its meetings, but shall meet at least once annually. The
                                                               quorum for the meeting shall consist of any two independent
The NRC considered and did not find evidence of any            non-executive Directors appointed to the NRC. The Managing
interest, position or relationship that might influence, or    Director, other Board members and any other persons may
reasonably be perceived to influence, in a material respect    be invited to attend the meetings as necessary.
the abovenamed retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an
independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board       Activities of the Nominating & Remuneration Committee
and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole,
save and except that Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden      The activities of the NRC during the financial year were as
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Board representatives of        follows:
RFC and as such Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Non-Independent Board           a) Leading the process for Board appointments and making
members. None of the retiring Directors hold any shares             recommendations of new members to the Board;
in the Company whether directly or indirectly, have any
family relationships with any other director or substantial    b) Review the composition of the Board and Board
shareholder of the Company nor do they have any personal            Committees;
interest in any business arrangement involving the Company.
                                                               c) Make recommendations to the Board on the
The NRC also reviewed and assessed the performance of the           remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors;
retiring Directors on the following criteria:-
                                                               d) Nominate the directors who are due for retirement and
• Integrity & Ethics – they behave with honesty and                 eligible to stand for re-election at the AGM;
     honourably at all times
                                                               e) Assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the
                                                                    Committees of the Board and the individual directors on
                                                                    an on-going basis;
48                                                                                  Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

f) Review the recommendations on Board Effectiveness       g) Review the required skills and core competencies of the
     made by external consultant following the Board            Managing Director.
     Evaluation carried out in FY2020 and propose actions
     to be taken arising therefrom; and                    The terms of reference of the NRC are available on the
                                                           Company’s website, www.dutchlady.com.my.

The Committee met two (2) times in FY2021 and the attendance of each individual is set out below:

Current Members                                            Former members

Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(1)                                       Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(3)
(Chairperson,
Senior Independent            Attendance                   (Chairman, Senior Independent Attendance
Non-Executive Director)
                              100%                   2/2   Non-Executive Director)           100%              1/1
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus
Maria Kodden                  Attendance                   Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin         Attendance
(Member, Non-Independent                                   Rajakumar(4)
Non-Executive)                100%                   2/2   (Member, Independent              100%              1/1
                                                           Non-Executive Director)
Tengku Nurul Azian            Attendance
(Member, Independent                                       Secretary
Non-Executive Director)       100%                   2/2
                                                           Ms. Katina Nurani binti
                                                           Abd Rahim                         Attendance
                                                           (Company Secretary)
                                                                                             100%              2/2

Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(2)

(Member, Independent          Attendance
Non-Executive Director)
                              100%                   1/1

Notes:                                                     (3) Retired as Chairperson of NRC on 25 May 2021
(1) Appointed as Chairperson of NRC on 25 May 2021         (4) Resigned as Member of NRC on 27 September 2021
(2) Appointed as Member of NRC on 27 September 2021

Training and Development                                   In addition, the Directors are encouraged to attend
                                                           continuous education programs, talks, seminars, workshops
Induction programs are conducted for newly appointed       and conferences to enhance their skills and knowledge and
Directors, which include briefings by members of           to ensure that they are kept abreast with new developments
Management and the Company Secretary. The Directors will   in the business environment, corporate governance and
be provided with the necessary information to assist them  enhance their skills and knowledge.
in understanding the operations of the Company, current
issues and corporate strategies as well as the management  The Directors who were on the Board in FY2021 attended
structure of the Company and the RFC Group. All Directors  the following training programs during the year to further
have attended and successfully completed the Mandatory     enhance their knowledge and to enable them to discharge
Accreditation Program as required under the Listing        their duties and responsibilities more effectively:
Requirements.

Director               Date of Training  Course Details                                  Organiser
                       12 January        Risk, Strategy and Governance - How Integrated  Malaysian Institute of
Datin Seri Sunita                        Thinking Can Support Boards in Creating Long-   Accountants
Mei-Lin Rajakumar      19 January        Term Value
*Datin Seri Sunita                       Ensuring Equality, Inclusive Growth and Access  United Nations
attended 88 courses                      to Opportunities                                Department of Economic
in FY2021, some of                                                                       and Social Affairs
which are as follows:                    Davos Agenda: Carbon Markets: A Conversation    World Economic Forum
                                         with Bill Gates, Mark Carney, Annette Nazareth
                       27 January        and Bill Winters
Annual Report 2021                                                               49

                                      CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                         OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Director            Date of Training  Course Details                                     Organiser
                    3 - 4 February    Basics of Climate Change and Organisational        Malaysian Institute
                    25 February       Greenhouse Gas Accounting                          Accountants
                    25 February       LeadWomen UN’s Women Empowerment                   LeadWomen
                    3 March           Principles Campaign Awareness Session
                    16 March          Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy     Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                         Industries Berhad
                    23 March          Moving from Sustainability to Climate Action in    Climate Governance
                                      the Palm Oil Sector                                Malaysia
                    25 March          World Bank Flagship Report ‘Aiming High            World Bank Group
                                      – Navigating the Next Stage of Malaysia’s
                    14 April          Development’ Launch                                Climate Governance
                    1 June            Climate Change: The Evolving Role of               Global Summit, World
                    2 June            Non-Executive Boards                               Economic Forum
                    8 June                                                               Climate Governance
                    9 June            Accelerating Corporate Climate Action Goal 13      Global Summit, World
                    17 June           Impact Platform                                    Economic Forum
                                                                                         Institute of Strategic and
                    29 June           Is there a Race Towards a Global Green             International Studies
                    7 July            Recovery?                                          Asian School of Business
                    12 July           Implementing Amendments in the Malaysian
                                      Code on Corporate Governance                       BNM-FIDE FORUM
                    19 July           Dialogue on The Role of Independent Director in
                                      Embracing Present and Future Challenges            ASEAN-UK COP26
                    30 August         Framing the Future for Nature and Climate          BNM-FIDE FORUM
                                      Dialogue on The Future of Malaysia’s Financial
                    3 September       Sector                                             Institute of Strategic &
                                      The Future of Malaysia’s International Climate     International Studies
                                      Commitments                                        Malaysia (ISIS)
                                                                                         Ministry of Environment
                                      Voluntary Carbon Markets                           and Water (KASA)
                                                                                         ICDM
                                      MCCG Revision 2021 – Changing the Game in
                                      Corporate Governance                               Climate Governance
                                      Round Table on Property Sector I “Reducing         Malaysia-CEO Action
                                      Embodied Carbon in the Built Environment”          Network
                                                                                         Climate Governance
                                      Round Table on Energy Sector II “Low Carbon        Malaysia-CEO Action
                                      Mobility”                                          Network
                                                                                         Climate Governance
                                      Round Table on Energy Sector V “Carbon Sinks”      Malaysia-CEO Action
                                                                                         Network
                                      “Making Informed Decisions About Climate           Climate Governance
                                      Risks” with S&P Global, in collaboration with the  Malaysia
                                      Institutional Investors Council
50                                                                                   Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Director            Date of Training  Course Details                                  Organiser
Ramjeet Kaur Virik  4 September
                                      Public relations training on crisis management  Dutch Lady Milk
                    9 September                                                       Industries

                    28 September      The Net Zero Journey: What Board Members        Climate Governance
                                      Need to Know Part II                            Malaysia
                    28 October
                    12 November       Bursa Malaysia’s Focus Group Sessions           Bursa Malaysia
                                      [Session 10: Key capital market stakeholders]
                    15 – 18 November
                                      Cyber Kill Chain and Cybersecurity Capabilities Deloitte
                    26 November
                                      Dialogue: “The 2050 Net Zero Carbon Emissions FIDE FORUM
                    2 December        Target: Finance’s Role”

                    22 - 23 February  LESA 2021 (Leadership For Enterprise            Asia School of Business
                    28 February       Sustainability Asia)
                    22 - 23 March
                    19 - 20 April     2022 Strategy Workshop                          Dutch Lady Milk
                    1 June                                                            Industries Berhad
                    8 June
                                      Sesi pembangunan kapasiti dan kesedaran         Ministry of Environment
                    7 – 8 September   pemegang taruh bagi Nationally Determined       and Water (KASA)
                    15 September      Contribution (NDC) Malaysia kepada Paris
                    21 September      Agreement yang telah dikemaskini selaras
                    23 September      dengan keputusan UNFCCC
                    28 September
                                      Solution Focused Coaching - Module 1            HC Consultants Group
                    29 September
                                      Sustainability Essential                        ACE Academy
                    30 September
                                      Solution Focused Coaching - Module 2            HC Consultants Group
                    5 October
                                      Solution Focused Coaching - Module 3            HC Consultants Group
                    7 October
                    12 October        Lead to Win Cohort 5 Launch Webinar             London Business School
                    14 October
                    24 October        GA-Legal Essentials for Marketing               Horizon e-Learning/
                                                                                      Friesland Campina

                                      Mandatory Accreditation Program                 Asia School of Business

                                      Lead to Win C5 Peer Development Group session I London Business School

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W1 The New Normal             London Business School

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W1 Aligning the Organisation I London Business School

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Leading through            London Business School
                                      Strengths I

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Peer Development Group London Business School
                                      session II

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Aligning the Organisation London Business School
                                      II

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W3 Leading through            London Business School
                                      Strengths II

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W3 What Needs to Change? London Business School

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W4 Coaching Skills Workshop London Business School

                                      Lead to Win C5 M1 W4 Coaching Skills Workshop London Business School

                                      GA-Compass Module 1                             Horizon e-Learning/
                                                                                      Friesland Campina
Annual Report 2021                                                                                        51

                                                              CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                 OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Director            Date of Training Course Details                                Organiser

Saw Chooi Lee       24 October      GA-Compass Module 2                            Horizon e-Learning/
                                                                                   Friesland Campina
Bernardus
Hermannus Maria     2 November      Lead to Win C5 Peer Development Group session London Business School
Kodden                              III

                    26 November     2022 Strategy Workshop                         Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                   Industries Berhad

                    29 November     Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Translating Strategy into London Business School
                                    Action

                    30 November     Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Experimentation & Causal London Business School
                                    Chains

                    1 December      Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Execution Risks &         London Business School
                                    Hypotheses

                    2 December      Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Experimental Design &     London Business School
                                    Next Steps

                    1 - 4 December  Management Team Away Day                       HC Consultants Group

                    6 December      ACE Workshop 1                                 ACE Academy

                    25 February     Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                                           Industries Berhad

                    19 March        Critical Thinking                              MP Muar

                    19 April        Work Based Learning Connecting Higher          Taylor College, Zubedy &
                                    Education Industry & Future Talents            HRDF

                    20 April        Increasing Expectations on Reporting &         Climate Governance
                                    Disclosure                                     Malaysia

                    4 May           Unlocking Future Opportunities Focusing        HSBC Malaysia
                                    on Digital Innovation, Business Scalability &
                                    Sustainability

                    4 June          ESG in Malaysia – Priority or Fad by Datuk     ICAEW Malaysia
                                    Muhammad Umar Swift CEO Bursa Malaysia

                    13 July         2021 Asia Pacific Emerging Women Leadership    ConocoPhillips
                                    Program (as Panelist)

                    21 - 22 September Sustainable Reset: The Role of NRC in a      Institute of Corporate
                                                Post-Pandemic World                Directors Malaysia

                    26 November     2022 Strategy Workshop                         Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                   Industries Berhad

                    6 December      AOB Conversation with Audit Committees         Securities Commission
                                                                                   of Malaysia

                    25 February     Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                                           Industries Berhad

                    26 November     2022 Strategy Workshop                         Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                   Industries Berhad
52                                                                                 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Director            Date of Training  Course Details                                  Organiser
Dato’ Dr. Rosini    25 February
Alias               7 July            Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                    14 July                                                                                  Industries Berhad
Tengku Nurul Azian  7 September
Tengku Shahriman    19 October        MCCG Revision 2021 – Changing the Game in       Institute of Corporate
                    29 October        Corporate Governance                            Directors Malaysia
Jean Serge Krol     26 November
                    25 February       Rising Above COVID-19: Reimagining Work in      Permodalan Nasional
                    15 - 16 March     Malaysia & Beyond                               Berhad
                    27 May
                    22 - 23           Prosedur Import/Eksport Haiwan dan Produk       Jabatan Perkhimatan
                    September         Haiwan Serta Pemeriksaan Veterinar              Veterinar (DVS)
                    19 November
                    23 November       Climate Change: A New Green Deal for Malaysia Permodalan Nasional
                                                                                                             Berhad
                    26 November
                    29 November       Shariah Awareness Strengthening Shariah         Permodalan Nasional
                    2 December        Culture                                         Berhad
                    13 December
                    21 February       2022 Strategy Workshop                          Dutch Lady Milk
                    25 February                                                       Industries Berhad
                    19 July
                    19 July           Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                    26 November                                                                              Industries Berhad

                                      Nominating and Remuneration Committees:         Asia School of Business

                                      Beyond Box-Ticking and Enhancing Effectiveness

                                      Reimagining your Business with AI               Federation of Public
                                                                                      Listed Companies Bhd

                                      Business Foresight Forum (BFF) 2021 Virtual     Securities Industry
                                      Conference                                      Development
                                                                                      Corporation

                                      Driving Sustainability through Digital          Tricor
                                      Governance

                                      Building an Inclusive Digital Economy –         Malaysian Institute of
                                      Empowering People and Enabling Business for a   Management
                                      Digital Malaysia

                                      2022 Strategy Workshop                          Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                      Industries Berhad

                                      SC’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with    Securities Commission
                                      Audit Committees                                of Malaysia

                                      Fraud Risk Management Workshop 2021             PricewaterhouseCoopers

                                      Powertalk Global Series, ASEAN Board Trends Institute of Corporate
                                      Survey 2022: What Keeps You Awake At Night? Directors Malaysia

                                      FrieslandCampina Road Safety – Life saving rules FrieslandCampina
                                      E-learning

                                      Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                                             Industries Berhad

                                      FrieslandCampina Compass Code of Conduct        FrieslandCampina
                                      E-learning

                                      FrieslandCampina Purchase policy E-learning     FrieslandCampina

                                      2022 Strategy Workshop                          Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                      Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2021                                                                                              53

                                                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Director            Date of Training  Course Details                                  Organiser
                    27 January
Darren Kong Kam                       ACCA 6th APAC Thought Leadership Forum:         ACCA
Seong               25 February
                    19 March          Growth Recovery Leveraging on Analytics Driven
                    23 March
                    10 April          Forward-Based Insights
                    20 – 22 April
                    28 April          Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
                    6 May                                                                                    Industries Berhad
                    19 May
                    20 May            Certificate In Data Analytics                   ACCA
                    27 May
                    1 June            Building the Mindsets of Tomorrow               Institute of Corporate
                    23 June                                                           Directors Malaysia

                    24 June           Certificate in Digital Marketing Specialist     Malaysian Institute of
                    30 June – 2 July                                                  Management
                    7 July
                    4 August          Board Dynamics Bootcamp                         Institute of Corporate
                    2 September                                                       Directors Malaysia
                    23 September
                    24 November       Funding Options for SMEs                        CPA Australia
                    26 November
                    6 December        Innovate for Exponential Growth                 Institute of Corporate
                                                                                      Directors Malaysia

                                      PIKOM Digital Summit 2021                       PIKOM

                                      Governance in SMEs – SMEs, A Key Strategic      Malaysian Institute of
                                      Business Partner in the Supply Chain            Corporate Governance

                                      Corporate Governance in South East Asia: What Asian Corporate

                                      Investors Need to Know                          Governance Association

                                      Implementing Amendments in the Malaysian        Asia School of Business
                                      Code on Corporate Governance

                                      8th ACCA Asia Pacific Thought Leadership        ACCA
                                      Forum. Rethinking Risks: Opportunities In The
                                      Midst Of A Prolonged Crisis

                                      Power to the people: building a data-driven     The Economist
                                      organisation

                                      Certified Digital Transformation Professional   CASUGOL

                                      Is Your Team Future Ready                       Peoplelogy

                                      The Tech Edge for ESG                           Asia IOT Business
                                                                                      Platform

                                      Google Cloud Platform – Big Data & Machine      Fusionex/Google Cloud
                                      Learning

                                      The Cooler Earth Sustainability Summit 2021     CIMB/CEO Action
                                                                                      Network

                                      Asia’s Climate-Change Challenge                 Financial Times Live

                                      2022 Strategy Workshop                          Dutch Lady Milk
                                                                                      Industries Berhad

                                      Securities Commission’s AOB Conversation with Securities Commission

                                      Audit Committees                                of Malaysia
54                                                              Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Board Diversity                                                 • The Board would focus on ensuring that all the
(Practice 5.9 and 5.10)                                              Directors exhibit the requisite business acumen and are
                                                                     knowledgeable about future trends that could potentially
The Board acknowledges the importance of gender diversity            affect the business. To do this, recommendations on
and recognises the benefits that it can bring. The Board’s           suitable business related trainings will be provided
prime focus on is the strength of the Board and therefore            to the Board by the Company Secretary, as guided
the overriding aim in any new appointments must always be            by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and
to select the best candidate available. With this in mind, the       discussions on relevant and suitable business topics
Board shall at all times make best endeavors to have at least        will be presented by Management to the Board in the
30% women Directors on the Board. Currently, out of the              upcoming year.
8 members on the Board, 5 are women. As such the Board
comprises of 63% women directors.                               • The Board would also seek to enhance the inclusion of
                                                                     conversations on Environmental, Social and Governance
The Company also seeks to maintain strong women                      (ESG). To achieve this it was agreed that in FY2022,
representation in its Management Team. Currently, out of             Sustainability/ESG agenda will be a key priority for
the 8 members on the Management Team, 4 are women.                   Management and will be included as a standing item
As such the Management Team comprises of 50% women.                  in the Board agenda throughout the year with a focus
                                                                     on developing clear commitments and roadmap.
Following the Malaysia Board Diversity Study & Index which           Management would ensure that discussions on ESG
was carried out by Willis Tower Watson, DLMI was amongst             are integrated into Board and committee meetings
the top 10 companies of the Malaysia Board Diversity Index           and that more in-depth discussions on the Company’s
2021- Large-Cap. As part of this holistic study, Willis Towers       sustainability initiatives will be held.
Watson analysed disclosed data for a total of 312 companies
listed on Bursa Malaysia and assessed each company’s            Remuneration - Policies and Procedures
Board Diversity across the following eight dimensions,          (Practice 7.1 and 7.2)
Gender, Age, Tenure, Independence, Culture, International
Expertise, Domain Expertise, and Industry Expertise. Based      The DLMI Board has a remuneration policy in place since
on this analysis, Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad stood       2018 and this policy was recently reviewed in November
out as an exemplary company.                                    2021. The policy provides that the NRC will take into account
                                                                all factors which it deems necessary in order to attract, retain
Board Evaluation                                                and motivate Non-Executive Directors of high calibre who
(Practice 6.1)                                                  are able to provide the necessary skills and experience as
                                                                required. The level of remuneration shall be commensurate
The Board undertakes an internal annual evaluation of the       with the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors and
Board’s effectiveness. An evaluation by External Consultants    should also be in alignment with the business strategy and
was carried out in FY2020 and moving forward, evaluation        long-term objectives of the Company.
by External Consultants will be carried out on a periodic
basis. In FY2021, the NRC reviewed the proposals given          Remuneration for the Managing Director of the Company
by the External Consultant and took steps to implement          is approved by the Board in consultation with the RFC
the same. These includes taking steps to strengthen Board       Group. The remuneration for the Managing Director follows
interactions with Management, improving the structure of        the performance appraisal system and compensation
the Board Committees and Board Committee meetings, and          and benefits scheme of the RFC Group which is based on
taking steps to improve the process on board succession         the human resource policies and procedures of the RFC
and recruitment.                                                Group. Corporate and individual performance, market
                                                                competitiveness, business results and individual performance
In FY2021, an internal evaluation was carried out which was     are considered by the RFC Group in evaluating the Managing
led by the NRC Chairperson and facilitated by the Company       Director’s remuneration. The Managing Director is not paid
Secretary. The evaluation was conducted on the Board, the       meeting attendance allowance or Directors’ fees by the
Nominating & Remuneration Committee, the Audit & Risk           Company.
Committee, the Managing Director and on each individual
Board member through a peer evaluation. It was found
that the Board and Board Committees had foundational
good practices in place. Key findings in relation to the
effectiveness of the Board are as follows:
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                  55

                                                                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                            OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Non-Executive Directors are paid fixed annual Directors’  The NRC reviews the fees periodically by taking into account
fees as members of the Board and these are approved           the performance of the Company and benchmarking with
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The            other companies in the same industry and of similar size.
Chairperson of the Board Committees receives additional       The responsibilities and duties of the directors are also
Board Committee Chairperson fees and the members of           taken into account when reviewing the fees.
the Audit & Risk Committee also receives an additional fee.
All Non-Executive Directors receive benefits by way of a      The Terms of Reference for the NRC and the Board’s
meeting allowance for each meeting that they attend.          Remuneration Policy , as updated in November 2021, are
                                                              available on the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.

Remuneration of Directors and Top Senior Management
(Practice 8.1 and 8.2)

The aggregate remuneration of Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 is as follows:

Directors’ Fees and Committee Member Allowances               Executive Directors           Non-Executive Directors
Benefits                                                                              RM                                   RM
Salaries and other emoluments
Benefits in kind                                                                         -                           449,411
                                                                                         -                             74,100
                                                                            1,638,399
                                                                                145,051                                        -
                                                                                                                               -

The details of the total remuneration of the directors on a named basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 are
as follows:-

Name                              Directors’      Directors’                  Salaries      Benefits in              Total
                                         Fees       Benefits                and other                kind              RM
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(1)           RM              RM            emoluments                    RM
Tarang Gupta(2)                                                                                                   72,730
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin             64,930            7,800                         RM                  -   1,336,964
                                               -               -                                 128,133
  Rajakumar(3)                                                                           -                        114,906
Ramjeet Kaur Virik(4)                101,906          13,000                 1,208,831                    -
Saw Chooi Lee                                                                                                  446,486
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias                   -                                         -         16,918         86,501
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku        73,501                                                             -      88,506
                                      75,506                          -  429,568                          -       92,538
  Shahriman                           76,938                  13,000                -                     -
Darren Kong Kam Seong(5)                                      13,000                -                             68,330
Total                                 56,630                  15,600                -                     -  2,306,961
                                    449,411                                                    145,051
                                                                11,700                 -
                                                              74,100     1,638,399

Notes:                                                        (4) Appointed as Director on 2 July 2021
(1) Retired as Chairman on 25 May 2021                        (5) Appointed as Director on 14 April 2021
(2) Resigned as Director on 2 July 2021
(3) Redesignated to Chairperson on 25 May 2021

No Directors’ fees or allowances were paid to Bernardus Hermannus Kodden and Jean Serge Krol in lieu of the management fee paid to RFC.
56                                                             Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

For the top remaining senior management personnel,             the disclosure of remuneration details may be detrimental
the aggregate remuneration wages, salaries, benefits           to its business interests, given the competitive landscape
and contributions to state plans) paid for FY2021 is           for key personnel with the requisite knowledge, technical
approximately RM4.632 million. The most senior member          expertise and working experience in the Company’s
of management is an Executive Director of the Company          business activities, where intense headhunting is a common
and her remuneration is disclosed above. As such, details      industry challenge. Accordingly, such disclosure of specific
of the remaining members of senior management are              remuneration information may give rise to recruitment
shared on general terms and on an aggregated basis only        and talent retention issues. The Board feels that the
as the Board is of the view that it would not be in the best   details provided are sufficiently transparent and allows
interest of the Company to disclose these details given the    stakeholders to assess the reasonableness of remuneration
competitiveness in the market for good senior managers in      paid to members of senior management.
the consumer goods industry. The Board is of the view that

Principle
 B EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Financial Control and Reporting                                The Audit & Risk Committee
                                                               (Practice 9.1, 9.2, 9.3 and 9,5)
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company
maintains adequate and accurate records for timely reporting   Chairperson of the Audit & Risk Committee
of the financial position of the Company and the results
of its activities to enable stakeholders to make informed      The Audit & Risk Committee consists of a majority of
assessments of the Company’s performance and prospects.        independent directors. The Committee is chaired by Tengku
To assist the Board in effectively discharging this duty, the  Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman who is an Independent
Company has in place financial reporting procedures and        Non-Executive Director. She is not the Chairperson
processes. As at the date of this statement, the Board is not  of the Board. Currently, the Committee comprised 5
aware of any circumstances which have not been dealt with      members consisting of 3 independent directors and 2 non-
in the financial reports or financial statements, which would  independent directors. However one of the non-independent
render any amount in the financial statements misleading.      directors, Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias, is a nominee director
                                                               of Permodalan Nasional Berhad. As such, 4 out of 5 of
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in Respect of the          the Audit & Risk Committee members represents the
Preparation of the Audited Financial Statement                 Company’s minority shareholders. The members of the
                                                               Audit & Risk Committee are all financially literate and have
As required by the Companies Act 2016, the Board hereby        a full understanding of the financial reporting process and
provides its opinion that the Company’s financial statements   the financial matters discussed. The members also attend
for FY2021 were drawn up in accordance with Malaysian          training on new rules or standards relating to the accounting
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial         standards, tax rulings or corporate governance changes.
Reporting Standards, Main Market Listing Requirements          Details on the members of the Audit & Risk Committee are
(MMLR) of Bursa Securities and the Companies Act 2016 so       contained in the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
as to provide a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
position and the performance and cash flow for the financial   The Board has not appointed any of the Company’s former
year. Towards this, the Board has ensured that relevant        key audit partners as a member of the Audit & Risk
accounting policies have been used and applied consistently    Committee. The Audit & Risk Committee will observe a
and that reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates        minimum three (3) year cooling-off period before any former
have been made, in the preparation of financial statements.    key audit partner can be appointed as a member of the Audit
The Board also ensured that applicable approved accounting     & Risk Committee. This requirement is set out in the Audit &
standards have been followed and that proper accounting        Risk Committee’s Terms of Reference.
records were kept so as to enable disclosure of the Company’s
financial position in compliance with laws and regulations.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                         57

                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

In August 2021 the Audit & Risk Committee had a meeting with    The risk profile of the Company is established during
the Company’s External Auditor, Messrs. PricewaterHouse         the annual risk assessment session facilitated by Royal
Coopers (PwC), where PwC presented the annual audit plan        FrieslandCampina N.V. (RFC). Risks identified are categorised
for FY2021. In that meeting, PwC highlighted the key focus      and rated based on:
areas, methodology and new accounting standards. The
External Auditor also briefed the Audit & Risk Committee        • Impact on the relevant business objectives;
on their team members and the resources allocated to the
Company. After discussion and deliberation, the Audit &         • Likelihood of the risks occur; and
Risk Committee approved the audit plan. The Company also
sought the confirmation of independence from PwC.               • Potential for improvement of the way the risk is being
                                                                     managed, taking into account the existing internal
The written terms of reference for the Audit & Risk                  control framework and risk management measures
Committee are available on the Company’s website                     implemented.
www.dutchlady.com.my.
                                                                In FY2021, the Board decided that the Company’s risk
Risk Management and Internal Control Framework                  management framework and policies would be assumed
(Practice 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3)                                  by the Audit Committee. Accordingly the Audit Committee
                                                                became the Audit & Risk Committee on 27 September 2021.
The Company adopts the Enterprise Risk Management
program based on the framework that was developed and           Internal Audit
issued by RFC, which in turn is based on COSO framework         (Practice 11.1 and 11.2)
(developed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
the Treadway Commission for evaluating internal controls),      The Company has an in-house Internal Audit and Internal
of which the International Institute of Internal Auditors       Control Department which reports directly to the Audit &
is a sponsoring organisation. The program establishes           Risk Committee and assists the Audit & Risk Committee in
an enterprise risk assessment (“ERA”) for identifying,          the discharge of its duties and responsibilities. Its role is
evaluating, monitoring, reporting and managing significant      to provide independent assurance of the adequacy and the
business risks. The Internal Audit function also carries out    effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and
activities under the ERA.                                       governance process as well as to carry out investigations
                                                                on any complaints received. The investigation findings and
The Company’s Management team and internal audit                audit recommendations and measures are reported by the
team meets periodically to assess whether any conditions        Internal Audit Manager to the Audit & Risk Committee at
associated with a particular risk have changed, and to ensure   each meeting.
that action and risk mitigation plans have been implemented.
Progress and status of the mitigation action plans are          The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder of a
presented to the Audit & Risk Committee quarterly or new        Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from Multimedia
critical risks are escalated immediately for deliberation.      University (MMU). He is a member of the Institute of Internal
                                                                Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of Internal Audit has over
The ERA categorises the risk in the following way:              10 years of experience in various finance functions including
                                                                internal audit. The Head of Internal Audit is currently supported
• Strategic, which are risks that affect the overall direction  by an Internal Control Specialist. Further information in the
     of the business.                                           Internal Audit function is set out in the Statement of Internal
                                                                Control and Risk Management and the Report of the Audit &
• Operational, which are risks that impact the delivery of      Risk Committee.
     the Company’s products.

• Financial, which are risks associated with financial
     processes and reporting.

• Compliance, which are risks associated in relation to
     legal, statutory and corporate governance.
58                                                               Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Principle
 C INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

Communication with stakeholders                                  In accordance with the guidelines and standard operating
(Practice 12.1)                                                  procedures imposed during the Movement Control Order in
                                                                 FY2021, only the Managing Director, the Chairman and the
The Board takes steps to ensure, as far as is practicable, that  Company Secretary were physically present at the Broadcast
there is effective, transparent and regular communication        Venue of the meeting. All the other directors joined virtually.
between the Company and its stakeholders. The Company            The Company also held a fully virtual Extraordinary General
disseminates information to its stakeholders utilising the       Meeting on 1 July 2021 where all Board members and the
following methods:                                               Company Secretary joined virtually due to the Movement
                                                                 Control Order restrictions at the time.
Website: The Company’s corporate website provides quick
access to information about the Company. The information         Since FY2020, the Company’s general meetings have been
on the corporate websites includes the corporate overview,       held virtually through live streaming and online remote
information on the Board of Directors and the Management         voting due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For virtual meetings,
team, Compass and other Company policies, the Board              only shareholders who have registered and who have
Charter and Board Committee Terms of References, financial       been verified by the poll administrator were allowed to
results, announcements to Bursa, minutes of general              participate in the meetings. The meeting and online voting
meetings, the Company’s Annual Reports and Circulars to          was conducted using a system which contains data privacy
shareholders, the Company’s products, media releases, and        and security features. Information on how the shareholders
other corporate news.                                            can register, participate and vote during the virtual meeting
                                                                 was provided in the notice of meetings which were delivered
Annual Report: The Annual Report provides a                      to each shareholder in accordance with the terms of the
comprehensive report on the Company’s operations and             Company’s Constitution.
financial performance. An online version of the full Annual
Report is available and downloadable from the Company’s          Shareholders are always encouraged to provide questions
website www.dutchlady.com.my.                                    on the resolutions being proposed or on the Company’s
                                                                 operations and performance in general via email before
General Meetings: The Board shares information to its            the meeting and via the Q&A portal during the meeting.
shareholders during general meetings and encourages              Answers to questions received beforehand will be dealt with
shareholders to ask questions which are addressed during         during the Managing Director’s presentation or answered
the meeting. Minutes of the general meetings, together with      verbally during the meeting. Questions received from MSWG
a summary of the questions discussed during the meeting          are also presented and answered during the meetings. The
are shared on the Company’s website within one month of          broadcast of the virtual general meetings held in FY2021 ran
the date of the meeting.                                         smoothly and shareholders were able to see and hear the
                                                                 meeting proceedings clearly. Shareholders were also able to
Analyst briefings: The Company also meets up with                participate in the meetings by asking questions via the Q&A
investment analysts and fund managers periodically. The          portal. These questions were either answered via the portal
Company also actively responds to requests for discussions       which was visible to the shareholders or were answered
with institutional shareholders and analysts, locally and        verbally by the Managing Director during the meeting.
abroad, to provide them better insights into the Company.
                                                                 The full minutes of the meetings which includes the answers
Annual General Meetings                                          to the shareholders’ questions were available on the
(Practice 13.1 to 13.6)                                          Company website within 30 days after the general meetings.

The Company’s Notice of AGM is published in a local              In view that the pandemic is still on-going, a virtual meeting
newspaper and is issued to shareholders at least 28 days         will be held for the 59th AGM on 25 May 2022. The Broadcast
prior to the date of the AGM. The Company’s AGM in May           Venue will be held at Gallery 3, the New World Petaling
2021 was fully virtual and attended by all Directors.            Jaya Hotel, Paradigm, 1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301
                                                                 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                            59

                                                                   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                      OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Compliance Statement by the Board of Directors on                       The non-audit fees paid to the External Auditors in
Corporate Governance Statement                                          FY2021 is higher than usual and higher compared to
                                                                        the audit fees as the External Auditors were required
(a) Utilisation of Proceeds                                             to prepare the Pro Forma Statement in FY2021. This
                                                                        was necessary as the Land Disposal is subject to the
     The Company did not carry out any corporate exercise               approval of the Company’s shareholders at a general
     to raise funds during the financial year.                          meeting and therefore a Circular to Shareholders in
                                                                        accordance with Appendix 10B of the MMLR had to be
(b) Audit Fees                                                          prepared. As the Land Disposal was a Very Substantial
                                                                        Transaction within meaning of paragraph 10.02 of the
     (i) Audit Fees for the Company:                                    MMLR, the Circular to Shareholders was required to
                                                                        include a pro forma consolidated statement of financial
           The Company’s internal audit function is performed           position together with the notes and the auditors’ letter
           in-house by a team of internal auditors led by the           showing effects before and after the transaction based
           Head of Internal Audit and Internal Control. The             on the Company’s published or announced audited
           total cost incurred by the Internal Audit and Internal       financial statements for the latest financial period
           Control Department in relation to the conduct of its         ended. In the circumstances, the Company incurred non-
           functions for FY2021 was RM417,243. The amount of            audit fees of RM80,000 for the preparation of the Pro
           audit fees paid to External Auditors by the Company          Forma Statement.
           for FY2021 was RM92,367.
                                                                   (c) Material Contracts Involving Substantial Shareholders
     (ii) Non-Audit Fees
                                                                        Save and except for the recurrent related party
           The amount of non-audit fees paid to External                transactions entered into pursuant to the shareholders’
           Auditors by the Company for the FY2021 was RM                mandate, there were no material contracts either still
           100,000 as follows:                                          subsisting at or entered into since the end of FY2021
                                                                        by the Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved
           (i) Non-audit fees of RM20,000 is in respect of              Directors’ and/or substantial shareholders’ interest.
                 the review of Statement of Risk Management &
                 Internal Control; and                             This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made
                                                                   in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors
           (ii) Non-audit fees of RM80,000 is for the              dated 23 February 2022.
                 preparation of the Pro Forma Consolidated
                 Financial Information (“Pro Forma Statement”)
                 as set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of
                 Pro Forma Financial Information as issued
                 by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants in
                 relation to the transaction for the sale of the
                 Company’s land (“Land Disposal”).
60                                                            Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT

The Audit & Risk Committee (“ARC”) provides critical oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process,
monitoring the external and internal auditing process, compliance with relevant legal and statutory matters and
other matters delegated by the Board. The committee was formerly known as the Audit Committee and became
the ARC on 27 September 2021 following the Board’s approval for the Audit Committee to assume the duties
of a Risk Committee.

The primary purpose of the Audit & Risk Committee (“Committee”) is to assist the Board of Directors to:

(i) discharge its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities of overseeing the financial risk processes and accounting and
     financial reporting practices within the Group;

(ii) review the quality of the Company’s accounting function, financial reporting and internal controls;

(iii) enhance the independence of the External and Internal Audit functions by providing direction to and oversight of these
     functions.

 A COMPOSITION

Chairperson		                                                 Independent Non-Executive Director
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman(1)
                                                              Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Members		                                                     Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(2)                                          Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(3)		                                Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias		
Mr. Jean Serge Krol                                           Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                              Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Former Members		
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar(4)
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(5)

Notes:                                                        (4) Resigned as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021 and as
(1) Appointed as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021              Member of the ARC on 27 September 2021
(2) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(3) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 14 April 2021           (5) Retired as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021

The ARC is chaired by Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku         Ms. Saw Chooi Lee has a Bachelor of Science in Business
Shahriman who is an Advocate and Solicitor of the High        Administration and an MBA from the University of Nebraska-
Court in Malaya, a Barrister of Law of the Honourable         Lincoln, USA. She first joined the Company in March 2003
Society of Inner Temple, and has an LLB (Hons) from the       as its Commercial Director after which she held various
School of Oriental & African Studies, University of London.   leadership positions in the FrieslandCampina Group including
She has over 19 years of broad experience in investment       the role of the Company’s Managing Director from 2015 to
banking and corporate finance and was previously the          2017. She is currently teaching at the Graduate Business
Executive Vice President & Partner of PEMANDU Associates      School – MBA Program, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and
Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm which is focused on     mentors in the Women in Leadership (WIL) programme by
public sector transformation and business turnaround with     Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
global experience. She sits on the Boards and Audit and Risk
Committees of other companies in Malaysia.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                           61

                                                                AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
                                                                                           REPORT

Mr. Darren Kong has a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting,         Mr. Jean Serge Krol has a Master’s of Economics as well as
Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom. He is a              a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Public Accountants
Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified         from the Rijksuniversiteit in Groningen. He also has as a
Accountants (ACCA), a Member of the Malaysian Institute         Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Controllers from the
of Accountants (MIA) Associate, and a member of the             Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. He has held various senior
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He is          finance managerial positions within Royal FrieslandCampina
currently Managing Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance      N.V. from 2002 to 2019. In July 2019, he was appointed as the
of Fusionex International, an established multi-award winning   Director of Finance for the Specialised Nutrition Business
data technology provider that specialises in Analytics, Big     Group for Royal FrieslandCampina, Netherlands.
Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.

Dato’ Dr. Rosini Binti Alias is Doctor of Veterinary Medicine,
DVM, from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia. She was formerly
the Deputy Director-General of the Department of Veterinary
Services (“DVS”), Malaysia and has vast experience in the
veterinary and agricultural sector with a career spanning
over 30 years.

B TERMS OF REFERENCE

Structure of the Audit & Risk Committee                         (vi) be able to convene meetings with External Auditors,
                                                                       the Internal Auditors or both, excluding the attendance
The ARC is a Committee appointed by the Board and shall                of other Directors and employees of the Company,
comprise of at least 3 directors. All members should be                whenever deemed necessary.
Non-Executive Directors with Independent Non-Executive
Directors making up the majority. At least one (1) member       Functions
of the ARC must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants, or have at least 3 years’ working experience       1. The functions of the ARC are as follows:
and be a member of one of the Associations of Accountants
specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the Accountants          In relation to External Auditors
Act 1967. The Chairperson of the ARC shall be an Independent
Non-Executive Director and be elected from amongst                     (i) To consider and recommend to the Board the
the members of the ARC. All members of the Committee,                          appointment or re-appointment of the External
including the Chairperson, will hold office until otherwise                    Auditors and fix their audit fee, and to consider
determined by the Board.                                                       any issues regarding their resignation or
                                                                               dismissal and the reasons thereof; In considering
Authority                                                                      the appointment or re-appointment of the
                                                                               external auditors, to consider among others:
The ARC has authority to carry out the following:
                                                                               (a) the adequacy of the experience and
(i) investigate any matter within its terms of reference;                             resources of the accounting firm;

(ii) has full and unrestricted access to any information,       (b) the persons assigned to the audit;
       records and documents pertaining to the Company;
                                                                (c) the accounting firm’s audit engagements;
(iii) has the resources which are required to perform its
       duties;                                                  (d) the size and complexity of the Group being
                                                                       audited;
(iv) has direct communication channels with both the
       External and Internal Auditors;                          (e) the number and experience of supervisory
                                                                       and professional staff assigned to the
(v) be able to obtain independent professional or other                particular audit; and
       advice; and
62                                                             Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT

       (f) the performance of the external auditors            (iv) Ensure External Auditors have sufficient
               and its independence inter-alia:                       understanding of business, operations and
                                                                      risk areas, that senior audit team members
               i. communication with the management;                  are sufficiently involved throughout the audit
                                                                      process, and that the team has the capacity and
               ii. the external auditors’ ability to meet             ability to work in different geographical regions;
                      deadlines in providing services and
                      responding to issues in a timely         (v) To assess the External Audit firm’s measures to
                      manner as contemplated in the                   uphold audit quality and manage risks including
                      external audit plan;                            adopting indicators of audit quality;

               iii. the competence, audit quality and          (vi) To discuss issues and reservations arising from
                      resource capacity of the external               the interim and final audits with the External
                      auditors in relation to the audit;              Auditors, and any other matters the External
                                                                      Auditors or other consultants may wish to
               iv. the nature of the non-audit services               discuss, in the absence of Executive Directors
                      provided by the external auditors and           and Management, where necessary and in any
                      fees paid for such services relative to         case at least twice a year;
                      the audit fee; and
                                                               (vii) To review the External Auditors’ Management
               v. whether there are safeguards in place               letter and Management’s response thereon and
                      to ensure that there is no threat to            ensure Management provides information and
                      the objectivity and independence of             records in a timely manner;
                      the audit arising from the provision
                      of non-audit services or tenure of the   (viii) Obtain assurance from the External Auditors
                      external auditors.                              that they are and have been independent
                                                                      throughout the conduct of the audit engagement
               In making the assessment on the External               in accordance with the terms of all relevant
               Auditor’s performance and independence,                professional and regulatory requirements, and
               the Committee should consider the                      that following such annual assessment review
               information presented in the Annual                    and the assurance obtained, the Committee
               Transparency Report of the audit firm, to              to remain confident of the External Auditor’s
               the extent that it is applicable.                      independence and suitability.

(ii) To take note and be informed of the audit tender          (ix) Ensure that advance approval by the Board
       process that is run by FrieslandCampina globally               of Directors is required for non-audit
       including ensuring that an objective criteria is               services provided by the External Auditor, on
       established when assessing the appointment of                  recommendation of the Committee;
       External Auditors.
                                                               (x) Review all non-audit services performed by the
(iii) To review and discuss with the External Auditors                External Auditors to reinforce the independence
       their audit plan, the nature and scope of audit,               and objectivity of the External Auditors. In the
       evaluation of the Company’s systems of internal                event the non-audit fees paid to External Auditors
       controls and their audit report on the annual                  or a firm or corporation affiliated to the External
       financial statements, including Key Audit Matters,             Auditors are significant i.e. constitutes 50% of
       and report the same to the Board;                              the total audit fees paid to the External Auditors,
                                                                      the Committee is required to state the details on
                                                                      the nature of the non-audit services rendered in
                                                                      the Committee’s report.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                          63

                                                                AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
                                                                                           REPORT

In relation to the financial statements                         (iv) Review the Company’s annual report prior to
                                                                       submission to the Board for their perusal and approval,
(i) To review the quarterly and annual financial statements            to ensure compliance in accordance with the provisions
       of the Company before submission to the Board of                of the Companies Act 2016 and Bursa Securities Main
       Directors, focusing particularly on:-                           Market Listing Requirements, the applicable approved
                                                                       accounting standards as per MASB Standards and any
       (a) Public announcement of the results and dividend             other laws or regulations which might apply;
               payment;
                                                                (v) Review major audit findings and Management’s
       (b) Any changes in accounting policies and practices;           response during the year with Management, External
                                                                       Auditors and Internal Auditors, including the status of
       (c) The going concern assumption;                               previous audit recommendations;

       (d) Compliance with approved accounting standards;       (vi) Review the assistance given by the Company’s officers
                                                                       to the External Auditors and any issues encountered
       (e) Compliance with Bursa Securities and legal                  in the course of the audit work, including restrictions
               requirements;                                           on the scope of activities or access to required
                                                                       information.
       (f) Significant adjustments arising from the audit;
                                                                In relation to Internal Audit
       (g) Significant matters highlighted including financial
               reporting issues; and                            (i) To do the following, in relation to the Internal Audit
                                                                       Department:
       (h) Significant judgements made by management,
               significant and unusual events or transactions          (a) Review the adequacy of the scope, functions,
               and how these matters are addressed.                            competency and resources of the Internal Audit
                                                                               Department, and that it has the necessary
(ii) Review the Company’s dividend proposals including                         authority and resources to carry out its work,
       considering the quantum, timing and cash flow of                        including training programs for the staff;
       dividend payments, and recommending the same to
       the Board for approval;                                         (b) Consider whether internal audit personnel
                                                                               are free from any relationships or conflicts of
(iii) To consider and review the appropriateness of any                        interest, which could impair their objectivity and
       related party transaction and conflict of interest                      independence;
       situations that may arise within the Company
       including ensuring compliance with applicable laws              (c) Review the internal audit plan for the year
       and regulations to ensure:                                              and findings of the internal audit assessment
                                                                               and, where necessary, ensure that appropriate
       (a) internal control procedures with regards to                         actions are taken on the recommendations of the
               such transactions are sufficient and have been                  Internal Audit Department by Management;
               complied with;
                                                                       (d) Ensure the Head of Internal Audit reports
       (b) transactions are fair, reasonable and undertaken                    functionally to the Committee directly and
               on the Company’s normal commercial terms; and                   that the Committee reviews the performance
                                                                               of the Internal Audit function annually. The
       (c) transactions are not detrimental to the interest                    Head of Internal Audit should have the relevant
               of minority shareholders;                                       qualifications and be responsible for providing
                                                                               assurance to the Committee that the internal
                                                                               controls are operating effectively. The Head of
                                                                               internal Audit will be responsible for the regular
                                                                               review and/or appraisal of the effectiveness
                                                                               of the risk management, internal controls and
                                                                               governance processes of the Company.
64                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT

(ii) Ensure that the Company has an Internal Control              • Enhance and improve corporate governance with
       Framework, and periodically reviews the controls,                 a clear, concise and comprehensive structure for
       organises self-assessments and ensures effectiveness              the Company;
       of the system;
                                                                  • Put in place policies and procedures on business
(iii) Ensure the Company adopts the Standards and                        ethics and good business conduct which includes
       Principles outlined in the International Professional             focus on anti-bribery and corruption;
       Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
       Auditors;                                                  • Promote an effective risk awareness where
                                                                         risk management is an integral aspect of the
(iv) Review and appraise the performance of members of                   Company’s business plan and project portfolio;
       the Internal Audit Department on an annual basis;
                                                                  • Ensure appropriate skills and resources are
(v) Approve any appointment and termination of senior                    applied to risk management;
       staff members of the Internal Audit Department; and
                                                                  • Review periodic reports from the management
(vi) Takes cognisance of resignations of internal audit staff            on risk exposure, risk portfolio composition and
       members.                                                          risk management activities;

In relation to Enterprise Risk Management                                • Review and recommend new policies or changes
                                                                                 to policies and to consider risk implications
(i) To review and assess the adequacy of the Enterprise                          including the procedures put in place by
       Risk Management framework and controls on a quarterly                     management to prevent and detect fraud
       basis including Enterprise Risk Assessment updates,                       including cyber fraud.
       internal and/or external auditors’ evaluation of the
       framework and controls, mitigating controls and action     Other Scope of Work
       plans to mitigate identified business risks which enables
       the Company to update key risks direction, identify        (i) To consider major findings of any internal investigations
       material environmental, social or governance (ESG)                and Management’s response thereon;
       risks and other emerging risks and to define an adequate
       and practical mitigation action plan where necessary;      (ii) To review the draft circulars with respect to obtaining
                                                                         shareholders’ mandate on any Recurrent Related Party
(ii) To review and assess the effectiveness and adequacy                 Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature, before
       of the business continuity plan and monitoring its                submission to the Board of Directors; and
       implementation;
                                                                  (iii) To consider any other topics, as defined by the Board.
(iii) To ensure that the Enterprise Risk Management
       Framework focuses on the Company’s core business           The ARC’s Terms of Reference can be found on the Company’s
       operations and it allows the Company to:                   website www.dutchlady.com.my

• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
       accountabilities within the Company’s structures
       for management of risks;
Annual Report 2021                                                                                          65

                                                                AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
                                                                                           REPORT

C MEETINGS AND MINUTES

The ARC shall meet at least 4 times a year and the quorum for   The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the ARC
any meeting shall be 2 members, consisting of Independent       and as a reporting procedure, the minutes of each ARC
Directors. The Managing Director, Finance Director and the      meeting shall be circulated to all members of the Board.
Internal Auditor will be invited to attend all meetings of the
ARC. There shall be at least 2 meetings a year with External    A total of 4 meetings were held during the financial year
Auditors including 2 meetings without the members of            2021. The membership status and attendance record of each
Management. External Auditors will be invited to attend         of the members are as follows:-
additional meetings when appropriate and they may request
a meeting with the ARC if they consider it necessary. Other
Board members may attend meetings upon the invitation of
the ARC.

Members                                                         Attendance
                                                                      4/4
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman(1)
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)

Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(2)                                            2/2

(Member, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)

Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(3)                                    3/3

(Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)

Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias                                    4/4
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Mr. Jean Serge Krol                                                   4/4
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)                Attendance

Former Members                                                        2/2

Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(4)
(Member, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)

Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar(5)                          3/3

(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)

Notes:                                                          (4) Retired as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(1) Redesignated as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021       (5) Resigned as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021 and as
(2) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(3) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 14 April 2021                   Member of the ARC on 27 September 2021
66                                                              Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT

D SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR

A summary of the key activities carried out by the ARC          (c) Risk management and internal controls
during the financial year is listed below:
                                                                       The ARC took note of the Company’s risk management
(a) Financial Reporting and compliance                                 and the control environment guidelines as implemented
                                                                       using the RFC Internal Control Framework and the
       The Company’s quarterly and annual financial                    Enterprise Risk Management programme.
       statements as well as announcements made to
       Bursa Securities were reviewed by the ARC before                The ARC also received Risk Management progress
       submission to the Board for its subsequent approval. In         reports from Management quarterly whereby the ARC
       doing so, the ARC deliberated and focused on changes            took note of the mitigating controls and action plans
       in major accounting policies and practices as well as           taken to mitigate the identified business risks.
       any adjustments and/or issues affecting audit related
       matters to ensure compliance with Main Market Listing    (d) Going Concern assessment
       Requirements, the approved Malaysian Financial
       Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting          The ARC reviewed the going concern basis for preparing
       Standards, the requirements of the Companies Act                the Company’s financial statements, including the
       and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements            assumptions underlying the going concern statement
       with regards to the quarterly and year-end financial            and the period of assessment.
       statements.
                                                                (e) External audit
       As part of their accounting oversight duties, the
       ARC also reviews the External Auditors’ annual and              Throughout the financial year, the ARC had three
       interim audit reports, together with accompanying               meetings with External Auditors and two meetings
       Management responses.                                           with them without the presence of Management. The
                                                                       ARC is pleased to report that there was no significant
(b) Assessing Independence, Suitability, Objectivity and               matter of disagreement that arose between the
       Cost Effectiveness of the External Auditors                     External Auditors and Management.

The ARC carried out an annual review of the                     To reinforce the independence and objectivity of the
independence, suitability, objectivity and cost                 External Auditors, the ARC reviewed all non-audit
effectiveness of the External Auditors before                   services performed by the External Auditors.
approving their remuneration and recommending
their re-appointment to the shareholders. The                   During the financial year, the fees incurred in respect
factors considered include the competency, and the              of non-audit related matters amounted to RM100,000
adequacy of experience and resources of the firm and            as follows:
professional staff assigned to perform the audit.
                                                                (i) Non-audit fees of RM20,000 is in respect of
As part of the annual audit exercise, the ARC obtained                 the review of Statement of Risk Management &
assurance from the External Auditors confirming that                   Internal Control; and
they are and have been independent throughout the
conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with              (ii) Non-audit fees of RM80,000 is for the
the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory                  preparation of the Pro Forma Consolidated
requirements. Following the annual assessment                          Financial Information (“Pro Forma Statement”)
review and the assurance obtained, the ARC remains                     as set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of
confident of the External Auditor’s independence and                   Pro Forma Financial Information as issued by the
suitability.                                                           Malaysian Institute of Accountants in relation
                                                                       to the transaction for the sale of the Company’s
                                                                       land (“Land Disposal”).
Annual Report 2021                                                                                           67

                                                                 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
                                                                                            REPORT

The non-audit fees paid to the External Auditors in (g) Governance

FY2021 is higher than usual and higher compared to

the audit fees as the External Auditors were required            The ARC reviewed the ARC Report and the Statement

to prepare the Pro Forma Statement in FY2021. This               of Internal Control and Risk Management and

was necessary as the Land Disposal is subject to the             recommended to the Board for inclusion in the 2020

approval of the Company’s shareholders at a general              Annual Report.

meeting and therefore a Circular to Shareholders in

accordance with Appendix 10B of the Main Market (h) Other Matters

Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) had to be prepared. As

the Land Disposal was a Very Substantial Transaction             During the financial year, the ARC also carried out the

within meaning of paragraph 10.02 of the MMLR, the               following activities:

Circular to Shareholders was required to include a pro

forma consolidated statement of financial position               • reviewed the Company’s dividend proposals

together with the notes and the auditors’ letter showing

effects before and after the transaction based on the            • considered the quantum, timing and cash flow of

Company’s published or announced audited financial               dividend payments, and recommended the same

statements for the latest financial period ended. In the         to the Board for approval

circumstances, the Company incurred non-audit fees

of RM80,000 for the preparation of the Pro Forma                 • reviewed the recurrent related party transactions,

Statement.                                                       and any conflict of interest situations during the

                                                                 year

The ARC reviewed the financial statements to take

note of changes to the approved accounting standards             • reviewed the Circular on the Renewal of

and new application on financial reporting disclosures           Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related

under the Listing Requirements.                                  Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading

                                                                 Nature and recommended the same to the Board

(f) Internal Audit                                               for shareholders’ approval

During FY2021, the ARC had four meetings with                    • discussed with the External Auditors on Key
the Internal Auditor. During the engagements, the                       Audit Matters and any issues arising from the
ARC discussed the results arising from the Internal                     audit (in the absence of the Management)
Audit findings and recommendations by the Internal
Auditor on the controls environment and operational              • reviewed the Circular to Shareholders for the
weaknesses, and verified that timely corrective actions                 Extraordinary General Meeting together with the
were taken by Management.                                               Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information as
                                                                        set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of Pro
                                                                        Forma Financial Information as issued by the
                                                                        Malaysian Institute of Accountants in relation to
                                                                        the transaction for the Land Disposal

E INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

The ARC is supported by the Internal Audit function in           The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and is led
discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Internal Audit  by the Head of Internal Audit who reports functionally to
function is an integral part of the assurance framework and      the ARC while administratively to the Finance Director. The
its principal role is to undertake independent and systematic    Internal Auditors are empowered with strict accountability
reviews of the Company’s internal control system so as to        for confidentiality and safeguarding records and information,
provide objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity and       is authorised full, free, and unrestricted access to any and all
effectiveness of the Company’s overall governance, risk          of the Company’s records, physical properties, to carrying
management and internal control processes.                       out any internal audit or investigation engagement.
68                                                                Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT

The Internal Audit function is independent from the activities    (c) Prepared the internal audit programme based on the
of other operating departments and undertakes to review                  internal audit plan, for each activity or process to be
key processes of the Company and its relationships with third            audited;
parties. It also carries out risk management activities under
the Enterprise Risk Management programme developed by             (d) Maintained the Company’s Internal Control Framework,
the RFC Group. The programme incorporates a process to                   including periodically reviewing controls, organising
facilitate risk identification, assessment, reporting as well            self-assessments and ensured effectiveness of the
as review and mitigation risks that affect the achievement               system;
of the Company’s objectives and policies.
                                                                  (e) Discussed with auditees, process owners and
The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder of a          Management on the results of the audit for each
Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from Multimedia                activity or process, root cause analysis will be assessed
University (MMU). He is a member of the Institute of Internal            prior any recommendations in order to mitigate the
Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of Internal Audit has over             identified risk or control work flow improvements;
10 years of experience in various finance functions including
internal audit. The Head of Internal Audit is currently           (f) On a quarterly basis, reviewed the Enterprise Risk
supported by an Internal Control Specialist.                             Assessment updates, which enables the Company to
                                                                         update key risks direction, identify emerging risks and
The activities of the Internal Audit function are carried out            to define an adequate and practical mitigation action
based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the ARC. The                plan where necessary;
ARC reviews the extent of the audit scope and coverage of
the IA activities; and the adequacy and competency and the        (g) Reported to the ARC on a quarterly basis, the results
internal audit resources to support the completion of the                from the internal audit and governance issues
plan. At the quarterly ARC meetings, the Head of Internal                identified together with Management Team’s response
Audit reports to the ARC on the progress of Internal Audit               and action plans; and
activities and the resource requirements, including interim
changes and the impact of resource limitations. The report        (h) Followed up on all the action plans agreed from
to the ARC also covers significant risk and control issues,              the previous internal audit reports to ensure that
including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters               all matters arising are adequate addressed by the
that require the ARC’s attention.                                        Management.

During the financial year, the Internal Auditors undertook        Costs amounting to RM417,243 were incurred in relation
the following activities:                                         to the internal audit function for the financial year ended
                                                                  31 December 2021.
(a) Prepared the internal audit plan for the year, which
       is reviewed and approved annually by the ARC, and          Further details of the activities of the Internal Audit and
       updated where necessary by the ARC;                        Internal Control Department are set out in the Statement
                                                                  on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual
(b) Carried out all internal audit activities in accordance       Report.
       with the audit plan and adopts the Standards and
       Principles outlined in the International Professional
       Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
       Auditors and best practices in COSO Framework;

F ANNUAL REVIEW AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

An annual performance evaluation was carried out on the           relied, without independent verification, on Management’s
ARC in an effort to enhance and improve its processes of the      representation that the financial statements have been
control environment.                                              prepared with integrity and objectivity, in conformity with
                                                                  approved accounting principles and standards generally
The ARC’s responsibility is to monitor and review the             accepted in Malaysia and on the representations of the
practices and processes performed by Management and the           External Auditors included in its reports on the Company’s
External Auditors. It is not the ARC’s duty or responsibility to  financial statements and internal control over financial
conduct auditing or accounting reviews. The ARC members           reporting.
are not employees of the Company. Therefore, the ARC has
Annual Report 2021                                                                                      69

STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board of Directors affirms its responsibility for maintaining a sound and effective system of risk management
and internal control and outlines the nature of risk management procedures and internal control system within
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad for the year under review.

Responsibility and Accountability                               Risk Management Framework

The Board continues its commitment and responsibility           The Company aims for transparency in identifying,
towards effective risk management practices and system of       evaluating and mitigating risks by adopting the Enterprise
internal controls which includes the adoption of appropriate    Risk Management (“ERM”) programme that was developed
Control Frameworks established by Royal FrieslandCampina        and issued by RFC based on internationally recognised COSO
N.V. (“RFC”) and reviewing its effectiveness, adequacy and      framework. This framework describes the management’s
integrity. The Board is responsible for identifying the key     risk appetite, structure, responsibilities, processes and
internal and external business risks faced by the Company       governance reporting procedures. It has been developed
and for determining the course of actions to manage             to provide a reasonable degree of certainty that strategic
those risks. The Company continuously evaluates and             objectives are achieved by creating focus, integrating
manages risks and reviews the planned actions to safeguard      control measures into the Company’s activities, ensuring
shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets.             compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and by
                                                                safeguarding the reliability of financial and non-financial
The Board has received assurance from the Managing              reporting and the related explanatory notes.
Director and the Finance Director that the Company’s risk
management and internal control system is adequate and          Integration of the Enterprise Risk Management (“ERA”)
operating effectively, in all material aspects.                 practices throughout the organisation enables the Company
                                                                to accelerate its growth and enhance its performance.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial,     This success is built upon by timely identifying, evaluating
organisational and compliance matters and has put in            and effectively mitigating risks that could prevent the
place an organisational structure with formal lines of          organisation from realising its strategic objectives.
responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board and the
Audit & Risk Committee have delegated to Management the         In order to facilitate an effective risk management process,
implementation of system of risk management and internal        a governance process has also been established. The Three
controls within an established governance framework             Lines Models is developed to ensure a structured approach
throughout the Company.                                         is used and clear roles and responsibility is defined between
                                                                the different roles.

                                                 GOVERNING BODY                                             EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
                        Accountable to stakeholders for organisational oversight                        PROVIDERS

                      Governing body roles: Integrity, Leadership & Transparency

                   MANAGEMENT                                                  INTERNAL AUDIT
Actions (including managing risk) to achieve                                Independent Assurance

             organisational objectives                                          Third line roles:
                                                                 Independent and objective assessment
  First line roles:                      Second line roles:     of the governance, risk management and
Identify, assess and                    Expertise, support,
                                      monitor and challenge               internal control processes
    mitigate risks                   on risk – related matters

                    Accountability,  Delegation, direction resources,  Alignment, communication,
                    reporting        oversight                         coordination, collaboration
70                                                                        Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Company’s risk management programme is led by the         The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Process
Managing Director and supported by a Risk Management
Committee comprising of the Management Team and               The ERM process involves a systematic application of the risk
Business Leaders from all functional units of the Company.    management methodology to facilitate risk identification,
In providing assurance to the Board of Directors on the       assessment, reporting as well as monitoring and review as
Company’s adequacy and effectiveness of risk management,      described below:
the Risk Management Committee carried out continuous
reviews and updates of the status of risk mitigation actions  Risk Identification & Assessment
and identified emerging risks.
                                                              The ERM process begins with the business strategies and
The ERM framework focuses on the Company’s core business      objectives setting which is aligned to the Company’s vision
operations and it allows the Company to:                      and mission. Subsequently, risks arising from the business
                                                              strategies and objectives to be pursued are identified.
• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
     accountabilities within the Company’s structures for     The risks identified are assessed as part of the Risk
     management of risks;                                     Assessment Criteria and categorised based on the level
                                                              of probability and likelihood to reflect the risk appetite
• Enhance and improve corporate governance with a clear,      approved by the Board.
     concise and comprehensive structure for the Company;
                                                              The outcome of the risk assessment process at respective
• Promote an effective risk awareness where risk              functional levels will then be consolidated at the Company
     management is an integral aspect of the Company’s        level. Deliberations and discussions are held with the
     business plan and project portfolio; and                 Management Team and Business Leaders. This exercise
                                                              is facilitated by the Internal Audit (IA) Team and is fully
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are applied to      embedded as a key activity of the Risk Management
     risk management.                                         Committee (RMC).

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

Mission, Vision     Strategy          Business                Implementation  Enhanced
& Core Values    Development         Objective                & Performance     Value
                                    Formulation

Governance           Strategy &     Performance                 Review           Information,
 & Culture       Objective-Setting                            & Revision      Communication &

                                                                                   Reporting
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                             71

                                                                 STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                                AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Risk Reporting & Review                                          Internal Control Structure and Processes

Risk appetite sets out the nature and extent of risks that the   The system of internal controls is designed to safeguard
Company is willing to accept or retain in pursuit of its goals   the assets of the Company, to ensure the maintenance of
and objectives.                                                  proper accounting records and to provide reliable financial
                                                                 and non-financial information for use within the business
The Company’s general risk appetite depends on the risk          and for publication. However, these controls provide only
categories, is set out in the table below.                       reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
                                                                 error, misstatement, loss or breach of set regulations.
Risk Category and Risk Appetite
                                                                 The principal features of the Company’s internal control
                                                                 structure are summarised as follows:

Strategic                                                        • Board Committees

The Company is prepared to take a certain degree                 The functions and responsibilities of the various
of calculated risks relating to the realisation of its           committees of the Board of Directors are defined in
performance objectives and long-term goals.                      the terms of reference. These include the Audit &
                                                                 Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the
                                                                 Remuneration Committee.

Operational (including external risk)                            • Organisational Structure and Responsibility Levels

The Company attempts to minimise the impact of                   The Company has an organisational structure with
unforeseen disruption on its operating activities.               formal lines of responsibility and authorisation
                                                                 procedures within which senior management operates
                                                                 and is accountable for.

            Financial                                            • Authority Levels, Acquisitions and Disposals

The Company has a conservative and sound                              There are authorisation procedures and delegated
framework of financial policies and procedures to                     authority levels for major tenders, major capital
prevent risks that could have a significant impact on                 expenditure projects, acquisitions and disposal of
the financial results and material misstatements in                   businesses and other significant transactions.
its financial statements reporting.
                                                                      Investment decisions are delegated to Management
            Compliance                                                in accordance with authority limits. Appraisal and
                                                                      monitoring procedures are applied to all major
                                                                      investment decisions, and at times using external
                                                                      consultants for advisory services.

    The Company applies a zero tolerance policy.                 Board of Directors’ approval is required for key treasury
                                                                 matters including equity and loan financing, material
On a quarterly basis, the risk profiles are updated by the       acquisitions and disposals of assets not in the ordinary
Management Team and Business Leaders. The updated risk           course of business, investment in capital projects,
profiles are then tabulated into a heat map, which set out       cheque signatories and the opening of bank accounts.
the priority and focus for risk mitigation strategies based
on risk ratings at net levels. The net risk level is determined  On top of this, the FrieslandCampina Corporate Manual
after taken into consideration the effectiveness of existing     includes the procedures and guidelines in which
controls and risk mitigation plans.                              responsibilities and authorisations are stipulated and
                                                                 are applicable for the day to day management of the
The finalised risk profiles and heat maps are identified and     Company.
promptly brought to the attention of the ARC.
72                                                            Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

• Procedure and Control Environment                           • Standards of Business Ethics

In addition to internal controls, the Directors have ensured  Employees are contractually bound to observe
that health and safety regulations, environmental             prescribed standards of business ethics when
controls and economic risks have been considered, and         conducting themselves at work and in their relationship
relevant laws and regulations complied with. The quality      with external parties, such as customers and suppliers.
of the Company’s products is of paramount. Quality
Assurance, Quality Control and meeting customers’             In this regard, the RFC Company’s code for good business
requirements are prime considerations, and these are          conduct, Compass, plays an important role in the
achieved by the Company being FSSC 22000 certified.           management of compliance risk. This code of conduct
Ultimately, the aim of the Company is to deliver safe         and its underlying guidelines (which include the Speak-
food to consumers, whilst demonstrating compliance            Up Procedure, Fair Competition guidelines and Doing
with the prevailing laws and regulations.                     Honest Business, amongst others forms the basis of the
                                                              honest, respectful and transparent business conduct of
In addition, strong emphasis is also given to food safety     the Company’s employees and third parties with whom
with Good Manufacturing Practices and Hazard Analysis         the Company transacts with. Compliance with this
and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) System that cover        code of conduct and the guidelines is cascaded to all
all plants.                                                   employees by means of a comprehensive communication
                                                              and training programmes, with designated local trusted
The Company has in place the ISO 14001 Environment            representatives, set in place.
Management System, a systematic management
approach to the environmental concerns of the Company,        The Compass is supported globally by RFC Corporate
and ISO 45001, the Occupational Health and Safety             Headquarters with an established Integrity Committee
Assessment Series for the protection of employees             and a reporting platform (SpeakUp) that is available to
from hazards and the mitigation of work-related injuries      employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week so they
and health-related issues.                                    can, in confidence, express their concerns regarding a
                                                              suspected infringement of the code or a guideline. The
In 2021, the Company has embarked upon ONE Audit              Company has also established a procedure whereby
which is a FrieslandCampina’s internal maturity               certain Speak Up Reports which are of a financial or
assessment conducted on the quality system for                fraudulent nature will be escalated to the Company’s
Food Safety and Quality Management System and                 Audit & Risk Committee.
Safety Health and Environment Management System
within FrieslandCampina. In addition, a review is also        In line with this, the Company has an Employee
conducted to ensure a proper maintenance system and           Handbook that guides the Company’s employees in
organisational structure is in place. ONE audit is carried    their day-to-day conduct. Employees are expected to
out by the global team every two years once to ensure         conduct themselves with integrity and objectivity and
that products produced by the Company and the way             not be placed in a position of conflict of interest. In 2021,
in which they are being produced meet the necessary           trainings, briefings, and communication were conducted
high standards on food safety, quality, labour safety and     for employees and stakeholders in regards to Section
environment.                                                  17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
                                                              (MACC) Act 2009. This update is done to strengthen the
The Company has formal guidelines on safety, health           Company’s internal processes and practices to ensure
and environment which apply to all employees and third-       that it has adequate procedures in place to prevent
party contractors.                                            persons associated with the Company from corrupt
                                                              conduct.
The integrity and competence of personnel are
continuously assessed through the Performance                 Suppliers are also bound by the “RFC Business Practices
Management System, talent assessment programme,               for Suppliers” to ensure honest conduct of business
management organisation development and Hay Reward            is being practiced within the Company’s business
Management System.                                            operations.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                              73

                                                                   STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                                  AND INTERNAL CONTROL

• Formalised Strategic Planning and Operating Plan                 • Assurance Compliance
     Processes
                                                                        The Board, Audit & Risk Committee and Management
     The Strategic Planning process is led by RFC Company               review the Internal Audit reports on a quarterly basis
     and is focusing on long term strategic direction of the            and monitor the status of implementation of corrective
     Company, prioritising future investments and resources.            actions that are prepared by the Internal Audit team to
                                                                        address internal control weaknesses noted.
     The Company performs business planning and budgeting
     process each year, to establish plans and targets against     • Internal Control Framework (ICF)
     which performance is monitored on a monthly basis by
     Management.                                                        The Company has adopted RFC’s Internal Control
                                                                        Framework (ICF) compliance programme that
     The Company formulated a Sales & Operations Planning               emphasises on internal controls over financial reporting
     process to align product demand and supply together                where assessment is performed on key controls
     with financial resources in order to provide the Company           surrounding the financial reporting process based
     with defined business strategies and priorities. In                on materiality level; and focusing on transparency,
     addition, the process also aims to continuously improve            accountability and safeguarding of assets in its review.
     business performance, especially on the improvement
     in customer service levels, forecasting accuracy and               The ICF comprises prescribed control measures that
     inventory turnover management.                                     are evaluated by means of regular internal assessments
                                                                        for which if shortcomings are discovered, improvement
• Reporting and Review                                                  measures are set in place and regularly tracked. The
                                                                        assessments are performed by competent assessors and
     The Company’s Management Team monitors the monthly                 the outcome of the assessments are tested by qualified
     reporting and reviews the financial results and forecasts          independent testing reviewers. The Internal Audit (IA)
     for the business against the operating plans and annual            team discusses non-compliance areas, if any, and control
     budgets. The results are communicated to employees at              deficiencies with relevant business owners to ensure
     the Company’s town hall sessions. A separate monthly               remediation action plan is undertaken. Completed
     financial report is also disseminated to the Management            action plans are then retested to ensure adequate
     Team members, with periodical meetings organised with              remediation is in place. Unremediated deficiencies and
     core business managers.                                            controls requiring improvement are regularly reported
                                                                        and updated to the Audit & Risk Committee during their
     The Managing Director reports on a quarterly basis to              quarterly meetings.
     the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board of Directors
     on significant changes in the business and external           • Update on Developments
     environment in which the Company operates.
                                                                        Quarterly reporting is made to the Board on legal,
     On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing                     accounting, and sustainability developments where
     Director and the Finance Director sign-off on a                    applicable. Briefings are also conducted to keep
     bi-annual Management Statement to the Business                     employees informed of changes to legislation or local
     Group. By signing off on the Management Statement,                 by-laws that are expected to affect the Company’s
     it demonstrates the management’s accountability                    operations or the way the Company conducts its
     over financial and non-financial reporting disclosures,            business, where relevant.
     adequacy of the Internal Control Framework (ICF),
     responsibility for proper Segregation of Duty (“SOD”)              In 2021, the Company has also taken the opportunity to
     and ensuring full and transparent disclosure is made on            update key policies and procedures relating to functions
     any fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations.            of the business: - Sales, Finance & HR. The policies and
                                                                        procedures are reviewed and updated by the business
• Financial Performance                                                 owners in agreement with the relevant management
                                                                        team members. Furthermore, the Company has also
     The preparation of quarterly and full-year financial results       developed a SharePoint site, all approved policies and
     and the state of affairs, as published to shareholders,            procedures would be published here, and all employees
     are reviewed by the Audit & Risk Committee and later               have been given access to the site.
     approved by the Board.
74                                                            Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Internal Audit Function                                       There were no material losses incurred during the current
                                                              financial year as a result of weaknesses in internal control.
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house with its    Management continues to take measures to strengthen the
primary function to provide an independent and objective      control environment.
assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
governance, risk management and internal control processes    Taking into account the limitations that are inevitably
established by the Management and the Board. The Internal     inherent in any risk management and internal control
Audit function has an independent reporting line to the       system, and the possibilities for improving the system, the
ARC and its performance is reviewed by the ARC annually.      Company’s risk management and internal control systems
It focuses on key areas of the business and operations risk   provide a reasonable degree of assurance that:
based on the audit plan approved annually by the Audit &
Risk Committee. The audit plan is developed based on the      • The Board will be informed quarterly of the degree to
risk profiles identified in accordance with the Company’s          which the Company’s strategic, operational, financial
Risk Management Framework and in consultation with the             and compliance objectives are being achieved;
Management Team. Internal audit reports are presented on
a quarterly basis to the Audit & Risk Committee.              • The internal and external financial reporting do not
                                                                   contain any material misstatement and that the risk
• Summary of Work Performed by Internal Audit                      management and internal control systems functioned
                                                                   effectively during 2021; and
     During FY2021, the Internal Audit function completed
     the audit assignments as approved by the Audit & Risk    • The Company has complied with the relevant legislation
     Committee. The audit assignments were inclusive of            and regulations.
     investigative audits as requested by the management
     and the support rendered to the RFC Central Internal     This Statement is prepared in accordance with the Statement
     Audit (“CIA”) team on their audits on selected Capital   on Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for
     Expenditure projects.                                    Directors of Listed Issuers (Guidelines) with an effective date
                                                              of 31 December 2012, in line with the Paragraph 15.26(b) of
     The Internal Audit team highlights, to the Audit & Risk  the Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements and Principle B of
     Committee and Management, areas for improvement          the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance 2017 as issued
     and follows-up on the progress of implementation of the  by the Securities Commission Malaysia.
     agreed actions arising from the internal audit report.
     The Management is responsible in ensuring all agreed     The Review of the Statement by External Auditors
     action plans are address within the required timeframe.
                                                              As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
     The Audit & Risk Committee in turn reviews the           Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
     effectiveness of the system of internal controls in      the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on
     operation and reports the results thereon to the Board.  Risk Management and Internal Control. Their limited
                                                              assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit
Adequacy and effectiveness of Risk Management and             and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Internal Control System                                       Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).

The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness, adequacy       AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form
and integrity of the system of risk management and internal   an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
controls in operation during the financial year through the   management and internal control systems of the Company.
monitoring process set out above.
Annual Report 2021  75
76                                             Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

Sustainability and
responsibility remain
a key pillar of our
business strategy. As a
leading dairy company,
we are committed to
demonstrate responsible
corporate conduct
across all aspects of our
operations.

This Sustainability Report was prepared in
accordance with the guidelines set out in the
Main Market Listing Requirements relating to
Sustainability Statement in Annual Report of
Listed Issuers (“Guidelines”) issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and covers the
Company’s business operations in Malaysia for
the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
Annual Report 2021                                                                         77

                                                                 SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                              REPORT

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY: DAIRY WITH                    Operating Divisions
A PURPOSE
                                                                 • Day-to-day management of
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI) mission is to                sustainability risks and issues
create shared value to all our stakeholders through our
strategic initiatives, in line with that of our parent company,  • Own and ensure compliance of
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”). Based on RFC’s global            relevant sustainability-related
theme of Nourishing A Better Planet, we leverage our Dutch            policies and practices
dairy heritage and unique global milk chain in a sustainable
way. As one of the leading dairy players in Malaysia, we are     • Record all sustainability source
committed to demonstrate responsible corporate conduct                data
across all aspects of our operations.

Board Commitment & Reporting Framework                           Sustainability Governance Framework

Our Board of Directors is mindful of the Company’s               Sustainability is embedded within DLMI and is led from
responsibility towards sustainability issues and its role in     the top. Sustainability matters are managed by a team
our long-term strategic plans. The Board, in partnership with    consisting of members from various departments within
the Management and other stakeholders, remains steadfast         the company based on the Economic, Environmental and
towards ensuring that responsible corporate conduct              Social Framework and in line with DLMI’s vision of nourishing
is demonstrated and practised in DLMI’s daily business           Malaysians with trusted and sustainable dairy nutrition, for
activities across all aspects of DLMI’s operations.              now and generations to come. We aspire to demonstrate our
                                                                 commitment to sustainability within the market we operate
                      Board of Directors                         in, the environment, the surrounding community and in the
                                                                 workplace.

• Provides strategic advice and input                            Materiality Assessment
     from an external perspective
                                                                 In order to achieve DLMI’s sustainability objectives, a
• Ensures adherence with Bursa and                               comprehensive risk materiality assessment was conducted
     other regulatory requirements                               internally. This was done through a series of workshops with
                                                                 various internal stakeholders where issues were identified
                                                                 by internal stakeholders and survey results from employees
                                                                 were considered.

Management Team                                                  Based on the risk materiality assessment, the top 5
                                                                 principal risks were identified. A summary of the key risks
• Monitors and acts on related risks                             and uncertainties as well the mitigation factors undertaken
     and report on progress                                      by DLMI to meet the challenges can be in found in the
                                                                 Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls. The
• Responsible for sustainable                                    risks and the mitigation factors for 2021 were shared with
     business policies and practices                             the Board and quarterly updates have been provided to the
                                                                 Board on developments or outcomes of the steps taken.
• Formulates sustainable strategies,
     policies and KPI goals

• Monitors, aligns and facilitates
     adherence to our sustainability
     policy

• Facilitates and supports operating
     divisions to meet sustainability
     goals

• Conducts sustainability awareness
     and engagement activities

• Quarterly sustainability
     performance reporting
78                                                                                                                 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

FY2021 Materiality Matrix

                        Highest                                                                                    Food Quality, Safety and Nutrition

                                                                                                                   Halal Certification

                                                                                                             Customer Satisfaction          Raw Material
                                                                                                                                            Prices

Impact to Stakeholders  High                                                                 COVID-19 Pandemic

                                                         Anti-Corruption and                           Foreign Exchange Rates
                                                      Corporate Governance Innovation and

                                                                                       Digitalisation

                                      Climate Change   Sustainable
                                                      Supply Chain
                                                                                             Competitive Pricing

                        Medium                   National Socio-                            Risk Management        Responsible Advertising
                                      Economic Performance                        Water Management                 (WHO Code Compliance)

                                                                     Recyclable/                                     Talent Management
                                                           Circular Packaging     Energy Consumption

                                                                                  Emissions

                                                           Diversity and
                                                    Equal Opportunity

                                      Biodiversity                                Waste Management
                                                                                  and Recycling

                        Low           Socio Economic Progress of
                                      Local Communities

                                 Low                  Medium                                                 High                           Highest

                                                                                  Impact to Business Model

Sustainability Development Goals

The United Nations has formulated 17 Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”) related to responsible production and
consumption, climate change, sustainable communities, health and well-being and efforts to fight poverty and starvation.
Annual Report 2021                                                                                                79

                                                                                        SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                                     REPORT

Of these 17 goals, DLMI and our parent company, RFC, have identified seven SDGs that we contribute to. These are:

SDG 1: No poverty                                                    SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and
End poverty in all its forms everywhere                              Production
                                                                     Ensure sustainable consumption and
                                                                     production patterns

SDG 2: Zero hunger                                                   SDG 13: Climate Action
End hunger, achieve food security and improve                        Take urgent action to combat climate change
nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture                        and its impacts

SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being                                    SDG 15: Life on Land
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being                          Protect, restore and promote sustainable use
for all at all ages                                                  of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage
                                                                     forests, combat desertification and halt and
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth                               reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable                         loss
economic growth, full and productive
employment and decent work for all

These seven SDGs form the backbone of the RFC’s sustainability principles. They also ensure DLMI’s competitive advantage
in the marketplace and in building a long-term product brand value. The following framework is implemented:

Focus Areas         Economic                          Environmental                     Social
Strategic Goals
                    To strengthen innovation and      To adopt best practice solutions  To act as catalysts for boosting
                    operational efficiency to ensure  through innovative quality        community development and
                    food safety and towards a more    processes                         support systems for long-term
                    balanced resource –efficient                                        talent pipeline
                    management

Material Matters    • Right culture and shared        • Environmental protection        • Equal employment and
                        values                        • Material efficiency                 employee engagement
                                                      • Energy and water
                    • Safety and health                                                 • Talent development
                    • Supply chain dynamics               consumption management        • Community services
                    • Client-centric services         • Waste, noise and effluent
                    • Value for shareholders
                                                          management
80                                                                                     Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

DLMI Sustainability Roadmap: Reinforcing Our Sustainability Commitment for The Future

We worked tirelessly throughout 2021 to bring real meaning and action to our sustainability agenda, underpinned by a clear
sustainability roadmap established at the end of 2020 to drive comprehensive initiatives across 4 focus areas that supports
our Grass to Glass philosophy and RFC’s ‘Nourishing a Better Planet’, which is aligned with 7 out the 17 UN Sustainable
Development Goals.

    DLMI Sustainability Roadmap - Aligned to RFC’s Sustainability agenda & UN’s Sustainable Development Goals

    FrieslandCampina’s ‘Nourishing A Better Planet’ agenda is aligned with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG),
    which is supported by the Malaysian Government.

UN

RFC   2  3        4                             1                    3           6                      5

      2. Better living for farmers   1. Better affordable nutrition  3 Better climate,     5. Better packaging,
      3. Better climate, carbon          for everyone                    carbon neutral        100% circular
                                                                         future
          neutral future
      4. Better nature, improving                                    6. Better sourcing,
                                                                         100% responsible
          biodiversity

                         DLMI’s Sustainability Roadmap is aligned with
                  FrieslandCampina’s ‘Nourishing A Better Planet’ agenda

      • Drive dairy farming          • Provide healthy and           • Exercise            Internal
         which focuses on               sustainable nutrition to                           Ensure our
         sustainability for animals     all people, at all ages      production            entire packaging
         and ecosystem, while                                                              portfolio is
         minimising carbon           • Reduce hunger in              processes that        reusable,
         footprint                      Malaysia and promote                               recyclable or both
                                        good health and well-        reduce water
      • Enhance farmer’s skill          being                                              External
         and knowledge                                               and energy            Partnership with
                                     • Educate and amplify the                             MAREA and CAN
      • Drive productivity and          goodness of milk             consumption,          groups
         purchase of raw milk
         from local farmers                                          circular and

DLMI                                                                 CO       neutral
                                                                           2

                                                                     • 100% sourcing
                                                                        responsibly and
                                                                        sustainably

          Farm                                  Nutrition            Carbon Footprint          Post-Consumption
         (Grass)                                  (Glass)                   (Glass)                    (Glass)

                                    Accelerate                                         Defend
Annual Report 2021                                                                                      81

                                                                             SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                          REPORT

The sustainable actions and initiatives  The following sections discuss the various efforts DLMI has undertaken in 2021 to
in 2021 focused on leading sustainable   meet the 4 pillars of our strategic roadmap.
action at the farm, nourishing
Malaysians with better and affordable
nutrition and ensuring our business
operations were in balance with nature
via our carbon footprint and post-
consumption.

We achieved commendable progress in      PILLAR 1:                PILLAR 2:   PILLAR 3:     PILLAR 4:
2021 across the 4 key areas, reflecting    FARM                  NUTRITION     CARBON           POST
our commitment to the sustainability                                         FOOTPRINT
roadmap and the prominence and                                                           CONSUMPTION
value we place on sustainability.

PILLAR 1: FARM

Improving Dairy Self-Sufficiency                                 Memorandum of Collaboration: DVS – DLMI

Our Dairy Development Programme (DDP) helps accelerate
the development of local dairy farmers by raising milk quality
and safety, increasing farm productivity and supporting
farmers in selling their milk. In 2021 we provided continuous
support to local dairy farmers in creating a market for their
milk.

Our DDP also represents our proactive initiative in supporting
the Government’s plan to achieve 100% self-sufficiency in
domestic milk production by 2025.

DLMI inked a memorandum of collaboration (MoC) with
the Department of Veterinary Services Malaysia (DVS) in
2021 to implement sustainable dairy farming practices. The
strategic partnership involves the participation of local dairy
farmers in our DDP and Farmer2Farmer (F2F) Programme.
These initiatives involve Dutch dairy farmers transferring
their skills and knowledge to local dairy farmers to improve
the quality and quantity of local raw milk. Since 2011, DDP
has helped produce 37.9 million litres of local fresh milk.

Through our F2F initiative, milk production which we
purchased from local dairy farmers increased by 88% from
2.5 million litres in 2011 to 4.72 million litres in 2021.

                                                                 KSTNMB Female farmer (Madam Vijaya)
82                                                                                   Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad

SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

536  farmers trained          37.9     litres local
     (2013 - 2021)                     fresh milk
                              million  (2011 - 2021)

F2F continued to conduct virtual safety training for raw milk tanker drivers. 2021   KOPTEN Female farmer
also saw the introduction of F2F Video Blogs (Vlogs) in our training of local dairy  (Madam Wong Siew Moi)
farmers with a total of 70 Malaysian local dairy farmers trained virtually during
the COVID-19 Pandemic.                                                               Agro Dairy Farm

As for our virtual Good Dairy Farming Practice Training sessions conducted, 144
farmers were trained in 2021 in the areas of milk hygiene and quality, safety,
animal health and soft skills relevant to farmers.

We also celebrated International Women’s Day on 8 March 2021 to recognise our
women farmers.

We embarked on the F2F initiative in 2013 as part of our long-term commitment
to increase the supply of local milk and empower farmers to build sustainable
businesses and improve their livelihoods. To date, F2F has benefitted 536 farmers.

PILLAR 2: NUTRITION

Quality & Balanced Nutrition                                  DLMI Halal Toyyiban & Good Practices Commitment

The need for consistent and sustainable provision of quality  All our locally produced and imported products are Halal-
nutrition to provide the right nutrients to our consumers     certified. We also ensure our products manufactured
grows in tandem with the continued growth of the world’s      abroad obtain Halal Certification from the relevant Halal
population. As such, ensuring the availability of sufficient  certification bodies and authorities recognised by Jabatan
nutritious food to help combat undernourishment and a         Kemajuan Islam Malaysia (JAKIM). As such, we remain
shortage of nutrients forms one of the four cornerstones of   committed to providing Halal products to our consumers
our parent company RFC’s own CSR priorities.                  by putting in place Halal systems that comply with JAKIM
                                                              and Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) requirements.
On the local front, DLMI aims to continue our efforts         The requirements cover the highest standards of hygiene,
in combating Malaysia’s dual problems of malnutrition:        quality and safety conditions from the purchasing of raw
undernutrition and overnutrition (obesity) and nutrient       materials to the distribution of our products.
deficiency by ensuring our products are responsibly
manufactured, of high quality, healthy and available in       DLMI’s Internal Halal Committee (IHC) was established in 2011
various choices and portion sizes.                            to ensure our collective responsibility towards ensuring our
                                                              compliance with Halal Policy and Procedures is in alignment
We innovate to provide our consumers with more product        with JAKIM and JAIS’ requirements. IHC is responsible
offerings to attract more consumers to drink milk at all      for ensuring, developing, implementing, monitoring and
occasions. In addition, we educate our consumers on healthy   controlling the effectiveness of our JAKIM Halal Assurance
eating, to have a strong start to the day with breakfast      System (HAS) and compliance with the requirements of
and the need to make lifestyle changes, emphasising the       Malaysian Halal Certification. In 2021, DLMI’s IHC comprised
importance of being active with daily exercise.               of 13 members from various fields and divisions within the
                                                              company. Five of our IHC members are certified by the
                                                              JAKIM Halal Professional Board (HPB) as Halal Executives.
