GROUP FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS

                                                                        2019       2020      2021      2022                                                                     2023
                                                                                                                                                                            RM’000
                                                                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                                                                        3,148,901

Revenue                                                                 2,681,563 2,118,949 2,426,936 2,915,570                                                                31,962
Profit before tax from continuing operations                                78,295 133,668 96,904 179,444                                                                     (26,677)
Tax expense                                                                (17,693) (24,661) (35,881) (25,444)
Profit from continuing operations                                           60,602 109,007 61,023 154,000                                                                       5,285
Profit from discontinued operations,
                                                                                -  (88,423)  137,519            -                                                                      -
 net of tax                                                             60,602     20,584    198,542   154,000                                                                  5,285
Profit for the year                                                     (17,351)   (15,171)  (24,633)                                                                         (11,966)
Minority interests                                                                                       (8,955)
Profit/(Loss) attributable to equity                                                                                                                                            (6,681)
                                                                        43,251     5,413 173,909 145,045                                                                     537,262
 holders of the Company                                                                                                                                                    1,341,954
Issued share capital (RM’000)                                           527,571 530,665 535,623 535,902
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000)                                                                                                                                                        131
Net assets per share (sen) *                                            1,094,312 1,070,859 1,254,314 1,364,416                                                                  (0.65)a
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (sen) **                                                                                                                                          6.31
Gross dividends (%)                                                     109        106       123       134                                                                 1,022,893
* Based on number of shares (’000)
** Based on weighted average                                            4.51       0.54      17.08     14.22a                                                              1,021,580

    number of shares (’000)                                             5.72       1.92      3.81      5.71

Note:                                                                   1,004,095 1,010,282 1,019,653 1,020,210
a. As disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
                                                                        958,710 1,007,587 1,018,156 1,019,923

Revenue (RM’Million)                                                               Shareholders' Fund (RM’Million)

2,682
             2,119

                          2,427
                                        2,916
                                                     3,149

                                                                                                              1,094
                                                                                                                           1,071

                                                                                                                                         1,254
                                                                                                                                                      1,364
                                                                                                                                                                    1,342

2019 2020 2021 2022 2023                                                           2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

Basic Earnings Per Share (Sen)                                                     Proﬁt Before Tax (RM’Million)

17.08                                                                              78
             14.22                                                                              134

4.51                                                                                                         97
             0.54                                                                                                          179
                                                     (0.65)
                                                                                                                                        32

                                              2019 2020 2021 2022 2023             2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

84 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company, its
subsidiaries and joint ventures (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and
enhance long-term shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account
the interest of all stakeholders.
The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG 2021”) in its
corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016, the Board always keep
abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other relevant regulations to
uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
financial year ended 31 December 2023 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
discloses the Company’s application of each practice set out in the MCCG 2021.
This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
principles of the MCCG 2021 as follows:
A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

I. Board Responsibilities

     Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
     The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
     of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
     Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
     direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
     succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
     and various stakeholders.
     Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
     • Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
     • Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly

          managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
     • Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
     • Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate

          internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks
     • Review the adequacy of the internal control systems

                                                85 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            • Review succession and human resource plans

            • Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
                 and significant capital expenditure

            The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Executive Deputy Chairman cum
            Managing Director who further cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Executive
            Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and management team remain accountable to the Board
            for the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the general business environment, financial
            performance, operational progress, business outlook and action plans of the Company, the operating
            subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company on a quarterly basis.

            Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:

            • Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group

            • Declaration of dividends

            • Approval of annual budget

            • Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff

            • Proposed corporate exercise

            • Borrowings from financial institutions

            • Acquisition and disposal of assets

            • New investments such as joint venture

            As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment of
            Director and key management positions. The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director updates
            the Board from time to time on the details of the programmes for management development such as
            coaching, leadership and technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration of the Directors and
            key Senior Management to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently attractive to attract
            and retain the talents.

            Separation of positions of the Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director

            The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Executive
            Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such
            that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.

            Datuk Oh Chong Peng, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Board.
            He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board effectiveness and compliance with corporate
            governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and general meetings to ensure that the meetings
            are carried out smoothly according to their agenda.

            Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company and leads the
            day-to-day management of the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate
            business strategies and plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and
            profitability to meet the stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and
            decisions of the Board and coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.

            The Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director have regular dialogues over all
            operational matters. Between Board meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the
            Board and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director, expects to be kept informed by
            the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the
            Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.

86 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Board Meetings and Time Commitment

The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.

For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.

All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.

In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.

The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their full attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year as set out in the table below:

Name of Directors                       Board  Audit & Risk        Nomination Remuneration
                                               Management          Committee Committee
                                                Committee
Non-Independent
                                                      5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                     6/6            -           1/1*  4/4
                                                      3/3*
Teh Wee Chye                            6/6            -           -     2/2*
                                                       -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 6/6          -           1/1   -

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                 6/6                        1/1*  4/4

Azhari Arshad                           6/6                        -     -

Lim Pang Boon                           6/6                        -     -

Independent

Quah Poh Keat                           6/6    5/5                 0/0#  -

Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti  6/6    -                   1/1   4/4
Ideris

Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil          6/6    5/5                 -     4/4

* Resigned as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023
# Appointed as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023

All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.

Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.

                                               87 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
            companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
            sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well as
            monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in their other
            directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.

            Access to Advice and Information

            In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
            with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Board
            Committee members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting
            in advance so that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the
            meeting.

            Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
            views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
            issues that may be raised by Directors.

            In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
            discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.

            Qualified and Competent Company Secretary

            In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
            Secretary who satisfied the qualifications as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
            Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
            to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
            by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
            authorities.

            The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
            the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
            are made and properly kept.

            The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
            listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
            accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
            of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
            procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
            with the Listing Requirements.

            The Company Secretary always keeps abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
            corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
            on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.

            Directors’ Continuing Development

            The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
            they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
            regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.

            From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
            relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
            with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
            and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
            controls, sustainability initiatives, corporate governance and finance as well as global and local business
            environment.

88 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.

The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.

For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences, workshop
and courses covering leadership, corporate governance, economy, environmental sustainability, grains,
poultry and agriculture of the following topics:

• Leadership Conference
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
• Soyabean Meal Workshop
• International Conference on Tropical Agriculture
• Suite Talk – Inside Stories of Sustainability Champions
• Congress of the World Veterinary Poultry Association
• Bursa: Conflict of Interest (“COI”) and Governance of COI

Board Charter

The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how business
is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate Governance. The
Board Charter was last revised in 2023 to reflect the changes in the composition of the Independent and
Non-Independent Directors in the Board, changes in Board Committees and set a limit on the tenure of
an Independent Director to not more than a cumulative period of 12 years. The Board Charter is available
on the Company’s website.

Code of Conduct

The Company’s Code of Conduct (“Code”) is in force across the Group and all employees must comply
with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty for non-compliance with
the Code. The Code sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all employees are expected to comply
with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider
community and the environment.

Every employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s philosophy
and core values. The following Code of Conduct must be adhered to at all times by all employees within
the Group:

a. Demonstrating commitment
b. Living the core values of the Group
c. Avoiding conflict of interest
d. Preventing bribery and corruption
e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
g. Protecting company assets and resources
h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
j. Prohibiting insider trading
k. Complying with Antitrust and Competition Laws

The Code is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company. The
Code was last revised in 2022 to enhance the policy with new clauses, definitions and disclosure form.

                                              89 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            As personal commitment to the Code, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
            he/she has been furnished a copy of the Code, has read and understood the Code, accepted to comply
            with the Code and understood that any breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken
            against him/her. The Code is available on the Company’s website.
            Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment
            In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
            as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
            with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group has
            adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Policy and Guidelines”) on 6 July 2020.
            The Policy and Guidelines apply to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual
            employees, consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).
            The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Policy and Guidelines to avoid conflict of
            interest or the appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing
            between the Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s
            reputation or be in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.
            The Policy and Guidelines were published on the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing
            employees as well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email. All new recruits will also
            be briefed on the Policy and Guidelines during the onboarding programme.
            For enhancement, the Policy and Guidelines were revised in 2022 with new clauses, definitions and
            declaration form.
            The Policy and Guidelines are also published on the Company’s website.
            Whistle Blowing Policy
            The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
            & Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:
            a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;
            b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than

                 overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
                 legal standards; and
            c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
                 regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
                 appropriate actions.
            A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.
            All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud,
            misconduct or any integrity concerns to Mr Quah Poh Keat, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
            of the Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.
            Sustainability Management
            The Board together with the Management are committed and responsible towards the governance of
            sustainability in the Group including setting the sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. Detailed
            information on the Group’s approaches towards addressing sustainability risks and opportunities are
            provided in the Sustainability Report on pages 28 to 83 of this Annual Report.

90 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
II. Board Composition

     Composition and Balance of the Board

     There are currently 9 Directors on the Board comprising 2 Executive Directors and 7 Non-Executive
     Directors of whom 3 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board provides for a
     diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations and decision-
     making.

     The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
     with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
     public services, education and legal.

     The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
     a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.

     The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender,
     age, cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business
     development and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge. Currently, the Board
     comprises amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity, age and gender diversity with
     2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.

     The size and composition of the Board are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee via the
     Performance Evaluation. The Board is satisfied with the current composition in terms of size, skills and
     experience, diversity of age, gender and background which has ensured well-balanced views to facilitate
     effective decision making.

     As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
     appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
     to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 5 to 13 of this Annual
     Report.

     Appointment and Re-election of Directors

     The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. The Company has a Directors’
     Fit and Proper Policy (“Policy”) which serves as a guide to the Nomination Committee and the Board
     in their review and assessment of candidates for appointment onto the Board as well as Directors who
     are seeking for re-election. The Policy also sets out the fit and proper criteria for the appointment and
     re-election of Directors. The Policy is to ensure that each of the Directors possesses the character,
     integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time commitment to discharge
     his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.

     The Nomination Committee shall assess each candidate for new appointment as Director based on the fit
     and proper criteria as spelt out in the Policy before recommending to the Board for approval.

     For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
     candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
     and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
     Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.

     As for the appointment of Key Senior Management of the Group, it is based on merit and with due regards
     for diversity in skills, experience, age and gender.

     The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
     General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.

                                                91 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.

A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.

Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.

Independence of Directors

The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.

In line with the amended Listing Requirements, the Board Charter provides that the tenure of an
Independent Director shall not be more than a cumulative period of 12 years. Consequently, two long
serving Independent Directors impacted by this limitation, Datuk Oh Chong Peng and Dato’ Seri Zainal
Abidin bin Mahamad Zain, were redesignated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company effective from 31 May 2023.

Each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual
Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation to ensure that each
of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the Listing Requirements.

Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.

Board Committees

The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.

The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.

Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as follows:

Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris (Chairman)  Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Quah Poh Keat                                             Independent Non-Executive Director

92 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:

a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
     Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
     Committees of the Board;

b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
     vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
     Chairman and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director;

c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
     Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
     Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;

d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
     the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;

e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
     Executive or Non-Executive Director;

f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and

g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary
     to fulfill its responsibilities.

The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
and Individual Director for year 2023 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director
on a confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised a Board and Board Committees Performance
Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
composition, operations, roles and responsibilities, addressing the Company’s material sustainability
risks and opportunities and performance of the Chairman.

In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
of its Chairman.

Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed based on his/her contribution to interaction, quality
of input, understanding of his/her role and fit and proper criteria to ensure that each of the Directors
possesses the character, integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time
commitment to discharge his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.

Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
achieved the strong ratings.

Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
to the Board that:

• The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities
     professionally and effectively.

• Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her
     role and responsibility towards an effective Board.

• All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the
     Listing Requirements.

                                              93 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

• All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and
     in exercising their decision-making.

• Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Mr Quah Poh Keat,
     Datin Paduka Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon who are retiring by rotation and being
     eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.

III. Remuneration

     Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management

     The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
     of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
     The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
     Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
     package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
     incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
     Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
     and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long-term goals of the Group.

     The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
     Directors are paid Directors’ fees, Board Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance for each
     Board and Board Committee meeting they attend. In addition, the Company reimburses reasonable
     expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their duties.

     Remuneration Committee

     The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
     consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors as
     follows:

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon (Chairman)                  Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                 Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris       Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Maznah bin Abdul Jalil                        Independent Non-Executive Director

The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:

a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the
     Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;

b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company
     or Group;

c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination
     payments and compensation commitments;

d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the
     Company or Group;

e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will
     form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and

f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it
     deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.

94 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’ fees, Board
     Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees,
     the Committee ensures that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with
     their scope of responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee
     also reviews and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior
     Management for the Board’s approval.
     Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
     Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
     the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
     remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
     the shareholders at the AGM.
     Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
     in respect of financial year 2023 are disclosed in the CG Report.

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit & Risk Management Committee

     The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
     report are presented on pages 101 to 104 of this Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

     The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
     operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal control provides reasonable but
     not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.
     The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 105 to 109 of this Annual
     Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
                    RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

I. Engagement with Stakeholders

     Financial Reporting
     The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
     financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
     of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
     contained in this Annual Report as important source of information for shareholders, analysts and investors
     to review the Group’s financial and business performance.
     The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
     approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
     are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
     consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.

                                                95 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            Corporate Disclosure
            The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
            a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
            stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
            compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.
            Communication with Stakeholders
            The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and
            Circular/Statement to Shareholders as well as the announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
            and Press Releases on quarterly financial announcements, material information and corporate proposals
            are the principal channels for dissemination of information to its investors, stakeholders and the public
            generally.
            The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
            information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the Corporate Profile,
            Directors’ Profile, Financial Results, Annual Reports, Announcements released to Bursa Malaysia
            Securities Berhad, Research Reports, Constitution of the Company, Board Charter, Terms of Reference
            of Board Committees, Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report,
            Sustainability Report, Minutes of General Meetings, Code of Conduct, Policy and Guidelines on Gifts
            and Entertainment, Whistle Blowing Policy, Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust, Directors’ Fit and Proper
            Policy, Human Rights and Labour Standard Policy, dividend information, corporate news, operations and
            products of the Group.
            From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
            analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.
            In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
            via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.
            As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns to
            an independent director, the Board had appointed Mr Quah Poh Keat as the Senior Independent Non-
            Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and shareholders may
            contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.
            The Group continues to engage with each of its stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, regulators,
            customers, suppliers, employees and other communities through a variety of approaches to address their
            concerns and maintain an open communication. The summary of the engagement platforms with the
            various stakeholders is provided in the Sustainability Report on page 34 of this Annual Report.

      II. Conduct of General Meetings

            The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
            and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
            to participate in the proceedings.
            In line with best corporate governance practice, the Notice of AGM is issued to the shareholders 28 days
            prior to the meeting to provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting
            decision at the AGM.
            The Company had successfully conducted its virtual AGM on 16 May 2023 through live streaming and
            online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities.

96 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The conduct of the virtual General Meeting was in compliance with the Constitution of the Company
which allows General Meeting to be held using any technology or electronic means.
As precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and taking into consideration
the well-being of shareholders and all participants, only the Chairman, the Board, Chief Financial Officer,
Company Secretary and other essential persons were allowed to be physically present at the broadcast
venue while the meeting participants participated in the AGM remotely.
As an effort to encourage engagement with the shareholders, questions in relation to the agenda items,
business and performance of the Company may be emailed to the Company by the shareholders prior to
the General Meeting at any time from the day of notice of General Meeting and up to 48 hours before the
meeting. On the day of the meeting, every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions and
seek clarification during the live webcast by posing questions through the messaging window facility of
the Virtual Meeting Portal which was opened concurrently with the Virtual Meeting Portal an hour before
the commencement of the meeting.
Questions posed by shareholders were read out during the “Questions and Answers” session and the
Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director or Chief Financial Officer had responded
to all the relevant questions raised and provided clarification accordingly. As such, the shareholders had
experienced real time interaction with the Board during the General Meeting.
During the AGM, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director had also presented the overview
of the financial performance of the Group and business outlook.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were
voted by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions
using the RPEV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed
to verify all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were
displayed on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same
day.
The full minutes of the AGM detailing the meeting proceedings, including issues and concerns raised by
the shareholders together with the responses of the Company, were published on the Company’s website
for the information and benefit of all the shareholders of the Company no later than 30 business days after
the conclusion of the General Meeting.

                                              97 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Additional Compliance Information

The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.

1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposals

     (a) Disposal of 49% equity interest pursuant to strategic partnership with Tyson International Holding
          Company (“Tyson”).

          On 31 May 2021, the share purchase agreement (“SPA”) entered into between the Company and
          Tyson for the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd (“DTSB”), a wholly-owned
          subsidiary of the Company, to Tyson for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to
          be satisfied wholly by cash, in conjunction with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson, was
          completed.

          The disposal consideration is to be received in 3 tranches - Initial Consideration, First Earnout
          Consideration and Second Earnout Consideration. The Initial Consideration and the First Earnout
          Consideration have been received in 2021 and 2023 respectively. The Second Earnout Consideration
          will be assessed, subject to conditions being met, based on the financial targets of DTSB Group for
          the financial year ended (“FYE”) 2023.

          Based on the Profit Guarantee Account, the EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
          amortisation) of DTSB Group for the FYE 2021 was less than RM54 million and as such Tyson was
          entitled to the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million. On 16 August 2022, the Company remitted
          the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million to Tyson. The net Initial Consideration proceeds were
          RM169.944 million after deducting the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million.

          The summary of the utilisation of Initial Consideration proceeds is as follows:-

Description of                   Initial              Actual     Balance of Initial   Expected Time
Utilisation of Proceeds    Consideration            Utilisation   Consideration           Frame for
                                                    (RM’000)          Proceeds
                              Proceeds                           Unutilised as at       Utilisation of
                              (RM’000)                            31 March 2024       Proceeds (from
                                                                      (RM’000)       date of receipt of
                                                                                       the proceeds)

Repayment of bank          170,944                  170,944         -                Within 6 months
borrowings

Estimated expenses in

relation to the Strategic  14,000                   # 14,060        -                Within 1 month

Partnership

Total                      184,944                  185,004         -

Profit Guarantee           (15,000)
Payment

Net Total                  169,944

# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.

98 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
For FYE 2022, DTSB Group’s EBITDA was greater than the targeted EBITDA of RM141 million but the
net Debt was higher than the targeted net Debt of RM44 million. As such, the First Earnout Consideration
was adjusted to RM119.971 million and received on 13 December 2023, which was lower than the
estimated First Earnout Consideration of RM140 million.

The summary of the utilisation of First Earnout Consideration proceeds is as follows:-

Description of           First Earnout    Actual        Balance of      Expected Time
Utilisation of Proceeds  Consideration  Utilisation   First Earnout         Frame for
                                        (RM’000)      Consideration
Repayment of bank           Proceeds                                      Utilisation of
borrowings                  (RM’000)                     Proceeds       Proceeds (from
                                                     Unutilised as at  date of receipt of
Total                    119,971        119,971      31 March 2024       the proceeds)

                                                         (RM’000)       Within 6 months

                         119,971        119,971                -

                                                               -

(b) Rights Issue

     The Company has on 28 January 2019 completed its Rights Issue of Redeemable Convertible
     Unsecured Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and Rights Issue of Shares with free Warrants and Bonus Shares
     (collectively referred to as the “Rights Issue”). Pursuant to the Rights Issue, 165,084,641 RCULS at
     100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 and 220,113,744 Rights Shares of RM0.50 each were issued
     and cash proceeds of RM275,141,513 were raised.

     The summary of the utilisation of Rights Issue proceeds is as follows:-

Description of           Rights Issue     Actual        Balance of      Expected Time
Utilisation of Proceeds    Proceeds     Utilisation    Rights Issue         Frame for
                           (RM’000)     (RM’000)
Capital expenditure and                                  Proceeds         Utilisation of
repayment of revolving                               Unutilised as at   Proceeds (from
credit loans drawn                                   31 March 2024     date of receipt of
to finance the capital                                                   the proceeds)
expenditure                                              (RM’000)

Repayment of revolving   216,761        216,761      -                 @ Within 3 years
credit loans drawn to
finance working capital  54,798         54,798       -                   Within 1 year
requirement                                                            Within 1 month
                         3,583          # 3,954      -
Estimated expenses for
the Rights Issue         275,142        275,513      -

Total

@ The time frame for the utilisation of proceeds has been extended for another 1 year from
     28 January 2021 until 28 January 2022.

# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.

                                                 99 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Additional Compliance Information (cont’d)

The proceeds to be raised from the exercise of the 137,570,667 Warrants issued pursuant to the
Rights Issue at the exercise price of the Warrants of RM0.68 each are dependent on the total number
of Warrants exercised during the tenure of the Warrants. Such proceeds, if and when the Warrants are
exercised, will be used for working capital purposes.

Up to the Warrants’ expiry date of 23 January 2024, cash proceeds of RM690,256 were raised from
the exercise of 1,015,082 Warrants. Upon expiry date, the total number of Warrants which remained
unexercised was 136,555,585 and has automatically lapsed.

Upon RCULS’s maturity date of 24 January 2024, a total of 216,110,328 new ordinary shares were
issued and allotted arising from the full conversion of RM108,055,164 nominal value of RCULS at the
conversion price of RM0.50 each.

2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

     The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
     PLT, member firms of KPMG International Limited and local affiliates of KPMG PLT by the Group and the
     Company for financial year 2023 are as follows:

                                                      Group    Company
                                                     (RM’000)  (RM’000)

Audit Fees                                           413       130

Non-Audit Fees                                       126       104

Total                                                539       234

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

     There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
     and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2023 or entered into since the end
     of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 28 to the financial
     statements on pages 189 and 190 of this Annual Report.

4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature

     The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 28 to the
     financial statements on page 189 of this Annual Report.

100 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Composition

Chairman:    Quah Poh Keat
             (Independent Non-Executive Director)

Members:     Datuk Oh Chong Peng
             (Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman)

		Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
                                  (Independent Non-Executive Director)

The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 3 members, a majority of whom are
Independent Non-Executive Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).

Chairman of the Committee, Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) whilst Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.

The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.

Meetings

During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:

Members                                                                 Attendance
Quah Poh Keat                                                                 5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                                           5/5
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil                                                5/5
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                                     3/3*

* Resigned as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023

At the request of the Committee, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.

The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function had attended the quarterly meetings of the Committee to
report on the internal audit plan and internal audit and risk management reports.

During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.

The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary maintains minutes
of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.

                                                                        101 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Audit & Risk Management
    Committee Report (cont’d)

       Terms of Reference

         The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
         responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.

       Summary of the Work of the Committee

         The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
         of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
         a. Financial Reporting

               i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
                    to the Board for approval.

               ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
                    and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.

               iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
                    standards and treatments used in the financial statements.

         b. Internal Audit
               i. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
                    which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
                    to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
                    adequate scope and coverage of the activities of the Group.
                    Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
                    Internal Audit and Risk Management Function at its quarterly meeting.
               ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Internal
                    Audit and Risk Management Function at the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The Committee
                    appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in resolving
                    audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.

         c. External Audit
               i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
                    audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan for the Group for financial year
                    2023 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus areas.
               ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
                    and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
                    auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
               iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
                    and findings noted in the course of the audit.
               iv. Reviewed and approved the non-assurance services to be performed by KPMG PLT which were
                    separate from the statutory audit of financial statements and required pre-approval from Those
                    Charged with Governance. The non-assurance services were mainly the corporate tax advisory for
                    tax compliance related matters.

102 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     v. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
          and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
          of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
          for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
          Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
          accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

          The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
          to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.

          Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
          Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
          the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
          auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
          auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
          competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
          audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
          the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
          at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.

d. Risk Management

     i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
          the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.

     ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
          by the Committee, being the delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the
          SORMIC.

          Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
          assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
          disclosure in the Annual Report.

          The Committee authorised the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company
          and the Chief Financial Officer to sign the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC,
          for and on behalf of the Committee.

Internal Audit Function

The Group outsourced its internal audit and risk management function to an independent professional
company, Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng Governance Sdn Bhd, which operates independently from the operating
units. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function (“IARMF”) undertook the internal audit functions
based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by the Committee.

The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARMF as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.

The IARMF reported directly to the Committee who reviewed and approved the IARMF’s annual audit plan,
financial budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function was adequately resourced with
competent and proficient internal auditors.

During the year, the IARMF conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
internal audit plan to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems.

                                                103 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Audit & Risk Management
    Committee Report (cont’d)

         On a quarterly basis, the results of the internal audit reviews and recommendations for improvement were
         presented at the Audit & Risk Management Committee Meetings, and subsequently reported to the Board.
         In addition, the status of the implementation of corrective actions to address control weaknesses is also
         followed up by the IARMF to ensure that these actions have been satisfactorily implemented.
         The total costs incurred for maintaining the IARMF for year 2023 were approximately RM206,118.

104 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“MFM”) is pleased to present this
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

Board Responsibility

The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks

     to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to

     ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Internal Control

Risk Management

The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.

Risk Management Framework

The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.

                                                105 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statement on Risk Management
    and Internal Control (cont’d)

         Internal Audit and Risk Management Function will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
         them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
         Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
         highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.

        Control Structure

         • The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
               findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
               measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
               the system of internal control.

         • An independent Internal Audit and Risk Management Function reports directly to the Audit & Risk
               Management Committee. Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management
               Committee and the plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal
               control and to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including
               policies and procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that
               appropriate actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.

         • The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
               procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
               ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.

106 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
     and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
     a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
     and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.

• The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly
     to review and resolve key operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including
     issues of risks and internal controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.

• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
     cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.

• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
     and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
     training courses.

• The Group Code of Conduct is established to set out the ethical standards to all employees in their
     dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community
     and the environment.

• The Group has adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment as part of its measures to
     avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance with Section 17A of the
     Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009.

• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
     raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.

• The Group has the Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust (“the Policy”) in place to comply with all applicable
     antitrust and competition laws wherever it does business with. As any violation of the antitrust laws can
     have serious consequences to the Group, it is the responsibility of every employee of the Group to fully
     comply with the Policy.

Significant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group

a. Business risks

     The Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
     As such, the Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
     demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase
     in the cost of labour and raw material prices. We continuously seek to limit these risks through amongst
     others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of our business.

b. Availability and cost of raw materials

     Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of our total cost
     of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent on market
     conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect the Group’s profitability and results of
     operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, we may find it difficult to obtain the amount
     of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. We have taken relevant steps to hedge
     our exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts. In addition, we have good
     business relationships with our long term major suppliers and where possible, source our supplies from
     a variety of suppliers.

                                                107 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statement on Risk Management
    and Internal Control (cont’d)

        c. Biosecurity

               In combating biosecurity risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
               and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
               exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
               will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.

               Disease and Virus

               Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
               Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds. The Group has strict biosecurity
               measures in place at its hatchery facilities and poultry farms, closed house system at the poultry farms
               and structured vaccination programs with pharmaceutical companies for disease prevention and control.
               These, lower the risk of bird mortality, ensure undisrupted operations for food security as well as protect
               the environment and the health of the workers.

               COVID-19

               The COVID-19 pandemic has developed rapidly in 2020, with a significant number of cases. Measures
               taken by the government to contain the virus have affected economic activities. We have taken a number
               of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our
               people (e.g. social distancing, working from home and others) and securing the supply of materials that
               are essential to our production process.

               As we operate in the food industry (an essential service), we expect demand for our products to continue.
               We will continue our operations in the best and safest way possible without jeopardising the health of our
               people.

        d. Food Safety & Quality

               Ensuring safe and nutritious food products are crucial for the Group to meet the relevant food standards,
               consumer expectations, its branding and reputation. As its commitment to food safety and quality, the
               Group has obtained the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) certification, Food Safety
               System Certification (“FSSC”) 22000, HALAL certification, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice
               for Food), ISO 9001 (Quality Management System), ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management System),
               Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices Certification Scheme (“myGAP”) and MeSTI (Food Safety is
               Responsibility of the Industry) certification. With all these certifications and food management systems,
               food safety and quality are addressed through the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and
               physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution
               and consumption of the finished products.

        e. Foreign exchange fluctuations

               The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases of raw materials and borrowings that
               are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities. The
               currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”) and Vietnamese Dong (“VND”).

               As such, we have taken sufficient steps to monitor closely our exposure to the foreign currency movements
               and where appropriate, hedge our financial exposure to the foreign currency fluctuations by entering into
               forward contracts. However, there can be no assurance that any significant changes in exchange rate
               fluctuations or foreign exchange control regulations will not have any adverse impact upon the Group’s
               business.

108 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Review of this Statement by External Auditors

The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause them to
believe that this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has not been
prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether this Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.

Conclusion

Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer in this respect. Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards
operating a sound system of internal control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed,
added or updated in line with the changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, its subsidiaries and joint venture
company, Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd and its subsidiaries only. Joint venture company, PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia, is excluded as it has its own internal audit function while an associate is excluded because it has
ceased its operation. However, the Group’s interests in its material joint venture and associate are served
through representations on the Board of Directors of the respective joint venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 4 April 2024.

                                                109 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
REPORTS &
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     112 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
                     113 Directors’ Report
                     120 Balance Sheets
                     122 Income Statements
                     124 Statements of Comprehensive Income
                     125 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
                     126 Statement of Changes in Equity
                     127 Statements of Cash Flows
                     131 Notes to the Financial Statements
                     191 Statement by Directors
                     192 Statutory Declaration
                     193 Independent Auditors’ Report
    Directors’ Responsibility Statement

       For the Audited Financial Statements

         In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
         Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
         affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
         In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the Directors have:
         • Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
         • Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
         • Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures

               disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
         The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
         reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
         the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
         taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
         and other irregularities.

112 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report

for the year ended 31 December 2023

The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

Principal activities

The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

Subsidiaries

The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

Results

				 Group                                                                                      Company
				RM’000                                                                                        RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to:  (6,681)                                            (70,444)
 Owners of the Company				                   11,966                                                     -
 Non-controlling interests

				 5,285                                                                                      (70,444)

Reserves and provisions

There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except as disclosed in the financial statements.

Dividends

Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:

(i) an interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM15,315,000 in
        respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 24 March 2023; and

(ii) an interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM15,338,000 in
        respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 on 29 September 2023.

On 29 February 2024, the Directors declared a second interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary
share totalling approximately RM18,587,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023, which
was paid on 29 March 2024.

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

                                     113 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Directors’ Report

       for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)

         Directors of the Company
         Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:

           Datuk Oh Chong Peng
           Teh Wee Chye
           Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
           Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
           Azhari Arshad
           Quah Poh Keat
           Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
           Lim Pang Boon
           Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
         List of Directors of subsidiaries
         Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
         the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:
           Datuk Oh Chong Peng
           Teh Wee Chye
           Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
           Azhari Arshad
           Lim Pang Boon
           Le Cong Anh
           Pham Ngoc Tien
           Tran Quoc Hoang
           Huynh Duc Chinh
           Hideki Oya
           Chua Kiat Hwa
           Khng Poh Leng, Douglas
           Tan Keng Seng
           Shota Takahashi (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
           Takuya Mori (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
           Ryuichiro Yasuda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)
           Yoshito Manda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)

114 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests

The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks
(“RCULS”) and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries)
of those who were Directors at financial year end (including the interests of the spouses or children of the
Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings are as follows:

                                                           Number of ordinary shares

								                                   At			                                            At
								
                                           1.1.2023        Acquired   Disposed 31.12.2023

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest                            123,764,911             -  - 123,764,911
Teh Wee Chye                                      23,087           -
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                 8,250          -  -               23,087
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                          -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                       7,078,500            -  -               8,250
Lim Pang Boon                                   488,585    60,000
Azhari Arshad                                   540,000               - 7,078,500

                                                                      -               488,585

                                                                      -               600,000

Deemed interest

Teh Wee Chye

- own						63,954,360                                      -          - 63,954,360

- others*					 63,000                                      -          -               63,000

Azhari Arshad                              31,239,800      -          - 31,239,800

Datin Paduka Setia Dato’

Dr Aini binti Ideris*			                   34,000          -          -               34,000

Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye

in subsidiary companies

Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.         7,000,001       -          - 7,000,001
                                                                      - 10,200,000
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd.                    10,200,000      -

                                           Interest in capital contribution denominated in

                                                           Vietnamese Dong (VND)

								                                   At			                                            At
								
								                                   1.1.2023        Acquired   Disposed 31.12.2023

                                           VND’000         VND’000    VND’000         VND’000

Vimaflour Ltd.                             345,961,284     -          - 345,961,284
 

                                                           115 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report

for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)

Directors’ interests (cont’d)

                                                                   Number of RCULS

								                                             At			                                At
								
                                                     1.1.2023      Acquired  Disposed 31.12.2023

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest

Teh Wee Chye                                         37,659,395    -                   - 37,659,395

Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                  2,000         -                   -  2,000

Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain            1,500         -                   -  1,500

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                              1,287,000     -                   - 1,287,000

Lim Pang Boon                                        66,120        -                   -  66,120

Deemed interest                                      11,628,065    -                   - 11,628,065
Teh Wee Chye
Azhari Arshad                                        50,000        -                   -  50,000

                                                                   Number of Warrants

								                                             At			                                At
								
                                                     1.1.2023      Acquired  Disposed 31.12.2023

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest                                      27,200,944    -                   - 27,200,944
Teh Wee Chye                                                4,387
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                         1,250  -                   -  4,387
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                               1,072,500    -                   -  1,250
Azhari Arshad                                             62,500
                                                                   -         (12,500) 1,060,000

                                                                   -                   -  62,500

Deemed interest                                      9,690,052     -                   - 9,690,052
Teh Wee Chye

* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the Companies
      Act 2016 in Malaysia.

By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.

None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2023 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.

 

116 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ benefits

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a
related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in
which the Director has a substantial financial interest.

The Directors’ benefits paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2023 are as follows:

					From

				 From the subsidiary

				 Company companies

				RM’000                                              RM’000

Directors of the Company:                        924    -
 Fees
 Remuneration                                    8,242  372
 Estimated monetary value of any other benefits
                                                 92     -

										                                       9,258  372

There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

Issue of shares

During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company increased from
RM535,902,000 to RM537,262,000 by way of:

(i) issuance of 2,621,656 new ordinary shares amounting to RM1,311,000 pursuant to the conversion of
        1,310,828 RCULS; and

(ii) issuance of 60,607 new ordinary shares amounting to RM49,000 pursuant to the exercise of warrants.

The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.

There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.

Options granted over unissued shares

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

Indemnity and insurance costs

During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
Company was RM18,564.

                                                 117 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Directors’ Report

       for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)

         Other statutory information
         Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
         steps to ascertain that:
         (i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and
         (ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been

                  written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
         At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
         (i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts

                  in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
         (ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and

                  of the Company misleading, or
         (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of

                  the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
         (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated

                  in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
         At the date of this report, there does not exist:
         (i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial

                  year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
         (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the

                  financial year.
         No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
         to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
         opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
         their obligations as and when they fall due.
         In the opinion of the Directors, except for the loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable
         amounting to RM71,065,000 and impairment of investment in a joint venture amounting to RM35,765,000 as
         disclosed in Note 21, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended
         31 December 2023 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and
         unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the end of that
         financial year and the date of this report.
          

118 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company during the year are RM273,000 and RM169,000
respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
4 April 2024

                                                119 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Balance Sheets

as at 31 December 2023

		Group                                                                        Company

                                   Note              2023       2022           2023           2022

		 RM’000                                                       RM’000         RM’000         RM’000

Assets                             3                 446,408      444,476        233,678        245,469
 Property, plant and equipment                                      19,028         13,912         15,675
 Right-of-use assets               4                 16,605             566            805            351
 Intangible assets                                                   4,883          4,555          4,612
 Investment properties             5                 1,450                  -
 Investments in subsidiaries                                                     141,348        141,348
 Investments in joint ventures     6                 4,826        693,598        611,617        647,382
 Investment in an associate                                          1,061
 Deferred tax assets               7                 -               5,771                 -              -
 Other receivables                                                                         -              -
                                   8                 709,051        71,065                 -      71,065

                                   9                 -          1,240,448      1,005,915      1,125,902

                                   10                6,164

                                   11                -

Total non-current assets		 1,184,504

Trade and other receivables,

including derivatives              11                408,797    572,297          192,351        355,564
                                                        5,408      7,393            3,377          5,649
Prepayments
                                                     523,921    627,831          158,436        202,887
Inventories                        12                   4,446      5,932            1,355          2,291
                                                                                           -              -
Current tax assets		                                 332,717    157,219
                                                      87,350     86,710            52,952         32,715
Fixed deposits                     13
                                                                                 408,471        599,106
Cash and cash equivalents          14                                              33,597         33,597

		 1,362,639                                                    1,457,382        442,068        632,703
                                                                    33,597
Asset classified as held for sale  15                33,597                    1,447,983      1,758,605

Total current assets		 1,396,236                                1,490,979
Total assets		 2,580,740                                        2,731,427

Equity                                               537,262      535,902      537,262        535,902
 Share capital		                                      77,410        78,694      77,410         78,694
 RCULS - Equity		
 Reserves		                                          727,282      749,820      308,738        409,842

Total equity attributable to       16                1,341,954  1,364,416      923,410        1,024,438
 owners of the Company                                            101,677               -                 -
                                   7                 104,027
Non-controlling interests                                       1,466,093      923,410        1,024,438

Total equity		 1,445,981

120 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
		Group                                                Company

                           Note  2023       2022       2023           2022

		 RM’000                                   RM’000     RM’000         RM’000

Liabilities

Deferred tax liabilities   10    18,136      10,538        17,119         10,534
                                         -     2,126               -       2,126
RCULS - Liabilities        16
                                 72,060     120,711        51,000         85,000
Loans and borrowings       17     9,857      11,353         9,379         10,555

Lease liabilities		                         144,728        77,498       108,215

Total non-current liabilities		 100,053                     2,702          5,026

RCULS - Liabilities        16    2,702         5,026       50,575         51,141
                                                         392,483        568,037
Trade and other payables,                   125,304
                                            984,981         1,315          1,748
including derivatives      18    110,127                           -              -
                                               2,070
Loans and borrowings       17    913,622       3,225     447,075        625,952

Lease liabilities		 1,639                                524,573        734,167

Current tax liabilities		        6,616                 1,447,983      1,758,605

Total current liabilities		 1,034,706       1,120,606

Total liabilities		 1,134,759               1,265,334
Total equity and liabilities		 2,580,740    2,731,427

The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                         121 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Income Statements

for the year ended 31 December 2023

		Group                                                                        Company

                                       Note          2023         2022         2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                         RM’000       RM’000     RM’000

Revenue                                19            3,148,901    2,915,570    779,166    678,546
                                                     (2,912,486)  (2,674,172)  (677,265)  (601,462)
Cost of goods sold		
                                                                     241,398   101,901      77,084
Gross profit		 236,415

Other income		                                       18,829       17,263       40,633     126,663
Distribution expenses		                              (92,648)     (89,880)     (47,447)   (45,023)
Administrative expenses		                            (31,427)     (29,110)     (20,574)   (19,026)
Net (loss)/gain on impairment of
                                                      (1,357)       1,494      (873)      (156)
 financial instruments		                              (1,342)     (15,961)      (21)      (264)
Other expenses		

Results from operating activities                    128,470      125,204      73,619     139,278

Interest expense		 (57,154)                                       (41,768)     (28,138)   (21,199)
Interest income		 25,548                                          17,186         4,247      2,134

Net finance costs		 (31,606)                                      (24,582)     (23,891)   (19,065)

Results from operating activities

after net finance costs		                            96,864       100,622      49,728     120,213
                                                     (71,065)        8,819     (71,065)      8,819
(Loss)/Write back on remeasurement of                                      -   (35,765)            -
                                                             -                                     -
contingent consideration receivable 21                 5,932       70,020              -           -
                                                                        (17)           -
Impairment of investment in a joint                      231                   (57,102)   129,032
                                                                               (13,342)     (4,760)
venture                                8.1                                     (70,444)
                                                                                          124,272
Share of profit of equity-accounted

joint ventures, net of tax             8

Share of profit/(loss) of equity-

accounted associate, net of tax		

Profit/(Loss) before tax		 31,962                                 179,444
                                                                  (25,444)
Tax expense                            20            (26,677)
                                                                  154,000
Profit/(Loss) for the year             21            5,285

122 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
		Group                                                        Company

                                      Note  2023     2022      2023       2022

		 RM’000                                            RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

(Loss)/Profit attributable to:              (6,681)  145,045   (70,444)   124,272
Owners of the Company		                     11,966      8,955          -           -
Non-controlling interests
                                                               (70,444)   124,272
Profit/(Loss) for the year		 5,285                   154,000

Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary

share (sen)                           22    (0.65)   14.22

Basic earnings per ordinary share

(sen) (adjusted)*                     22    6.30     13.36

Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary

share (sen)                           22    (0.46)   10.67

Diluted earnings per ordinary share

(sen) (adjusted)*                     22    5.29     10.03

* The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share exclude the loss on remeasurement of contingent
      consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 in the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: write
      back on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000).

The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                         123 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Comprehensive Income

for the year ended 31 December 2023

		Group                                                    Company

		 2023                                           2022     2023                                                   2022

		 RM’000                                         RM’000   RM’000                                                 RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year		 5,285                154,000  (70,444)                                               124,272

Other comprehensive income/(expense)
 for the year, net of tax

Item that is or may be reclassified               1,190    -                                                      -
 subsequently to the income statement

Foreign currency translation differences for
 foreign operations		 16,050

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for  21,335  155,190  (70,444)                                               124,272
 the year		

Total comprehensive income/(expense)       8,122  145,008  (70,444)                                               124,272
 attributable to:                         13,213   10,182          -                                                       -

Owners of the Company		
Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for  21,335  155,190  (70,444)                                               124,272
 the year		

                       The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.

124 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 December 2023

			                                     Attributable to owners of the Company

		 		                                   Non-distributable		     Distributable

							Other				 Non-

				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		 controlling                                         Total
                                                                                                             equity
Group		                       Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings      Total interests     RM’000

				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2022		 535,623             78,179   17,770 93,065  (34,407) 564,084 1,254,314         96,242 1,350,556

Foreign currency translation                  -
                                              -
differences for foreign
                                              -
operations		 -                             515   -           -  (37)           -        (37)       1,227 1,190
                                                                                                   8,955 154,000
Profit for the year		             -           -  -           -  - 145,045 145,045
                                              -
Total comprehensive

(expense)/income for the

year			                           -              -           -  (37) 145,045            145,008    10,182   155,190
                                                                                             794         -       794
Conversion of RCULS           16 279             -           -  -              -              ***        -        ***

Exercise of warrants          16  *              **          -  -              -

Dividends to owners of the

Company		                     23  -              -           -  - (35,700) (35,700)                (4,747) (40,447)

At 31 December 2022		 535,902 78,694 17,770 93,065 (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16

			                                     Attributable to owners of the Company

		 		                                   Non-distributable		     Distributable

							Other				 Non-

				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		 controlling                                         Total
                                                                                                             equity
Group		                       Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings      Total interests     RM’000

				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2023		 535,902             78,694   17,770 93,065  (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093

Foreign currency translation                  -
                                              -
differences for foreign
                                              -
operations		 -                          (1,284)  -           -  14,803         - 14,803 1,247 16,050

(Loss)/Profit for the year		      -           -  -           -  - (6,681) (6,681) 11,966 5,285
                                              -
Total comprehensive

income/(expense) for the

year			 -                                        -           -  14,803         (6,681)  8,122      13,213   21,335
                                                                      -              -     27            -       27
Conversion of RCULS           16 1,311           -           -        -              -     42            -       42

Exercise of warrants          16  49             (7)         -

Dividends to owners of the

Company		                     23  -              -           -  - (30,653) (30,653) (10,863) (41,516)

At 31 December 2023		 537,262 77,410 17,763 93,065 (19,641) 636,095 1,341,954 104,027 1,445,981
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16

* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.

     The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                              125 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 December 2023

                                                     Non-distributable  Distributable

		                                       Share RCULS - Warrant Retained                                              Total
                                                                                                                    equity
Company                              Note capital       Equity reserve earnings                                   RM’000

		RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2022		 535,623                             78,179          17,770  303,500 935,072

Profit and total comprehensive

income for the year

Profit for the year                                  -  -               - 124,272 124,272

Other comprehensive income for the

year		-                                                 -               -       -                                 -

Total comprehensive income for the

year		-                                                 -               - 124,272 124,272

Conversion of RCULS                  16  279            515             -       -                                 794

Exercise of warrants                 16              *  -               **      -                                 ***

Dividends to owners of the Company 23                -  -               -       (35,700) (35,700)

At 31 December 2022/                                    78,694          17,770  392,072 1,024,438
 1 January 2023		 535,902

Loss and total comprehensive

expense for the year

Loss for the year		                                  -         -        -       (70,444) (70,444)

Other comprehensive income for the                             -

year		-                                                        -        -       -                                 -
                                                        (1,284)
Total comprehensive expense for the
                                                               -
year		-                                                        -        -       (70,444) (70,444)

Conversion of RCULS                  16  1,311                          -       -                                 27

Exercise of warrants                 16  49                             (7)     -                                 42

Dividends to owners of the Company 23                -                  -       (30,653) (30,653)

At 31 December 2023		 537,262                           77,410          17,763  290,975 923,410

                                         Note 16 Note 16 Note 16

* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.

                       The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.

126 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2023

		Group                                                               Company

                                         Note  2023     2022          2023       2022

		 RM’000                                               RM’000        RM’000     RM’000

Cash flows from operating activities           31,962   179,444       (57,102)   129,032
Profit/(Loss) before tax

Adjustments for:

Amortisation of intangible assets        5     330            257         260          165
                                                                  -        (23)            -
Bad debt recovered		                           (23)                         57
                                                                58                       58
Depreciation of investment properties 6        57         39,372      16,722
                                                                        1,913      20,147
Depreciation of property, plant and                         2,881                    2,168
                                                                  -   35,765
equipment                                3     34,210             -                        -
                                                                 (4)          -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets      4     2,610                  (25,350)             -
                                                             (218)               (112,296)
Impairment of investment in a joint                                        (48)
                                                           (8,819)                    (218)
venture                                  8.1   -                35

Impairment of investment in an                               (196)
                                                          41,768
associate                                9     197       (17,186)
                                                           (1,494)
Dividend income		                              (3)
                                                              295
Net gain on disposal of property, plant                  (70,020)

and equipment and intangible assets		          (102)            17
                                                            4,860
Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement
                                                        171,050
of contingent consideration
                                                         (75,010)
receivable                               21    71,065   (130,849)     71,065     (8,819)
                                                                              -       88
Loss on liquidation of subsidiaries		          -            6,560           (9)
                                                                                    (196)
Gain on lease modification		                   (9)                    28,138     21,199
                                                                      (4,247)    (2,134)
Interest expense		 57,154
                                                                          873        156
Interest income		 (25,548)
                                                                           19         58
Net loss/(gain) on impairment of
                                                                              -          -
financial assets		                             1,357
                                                                              -          -
Property, plant and equipment
                                                                      (2,263)     3,348
written off		 20
                                                                      65,770     52,756
Share of profit of equity-accounted

joint ventures, net of tax               8     (5,932)

Share of (profit)/loss of equity-

accounted associate, net of tax		              (231)

Net unrealised (gain)/loss on

foreign exchange		 (2,127)

Operating profit before changes in

working capital		                              164,987

Changes in working capital:

Trade and other receivables,

prepayments and other financial

assets		 164,165                                                      164,635    (91,841)
                                                                       44,451    (58,236)
Inventories		 103,910
                                                                         4,625    (4,550)
Trade and other payables and

other financial liabilities		                  (6,225)

                                                        127 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)

		Group                                                                       Company

                                      Note           2023        2022         2023         2022

		 RM’000                                                        RM’000       RM’000       RM’000

Cash generated from/(used in)

operations		 426,837                                             (28,249)     279,481      (101,871)
                                                                 (40,058)     (27,094)      (19,489)
Interest paid		 (56,110)                                         17,186                        2,134
                                                                 (28,244)        4,247        (2,647)
Interest received		 25,548                                                      (5,830)

Net income tax paid                                  (14,550)

Net cash from/(used in) operating                                (79,365)     250,804      (121,873)
 activities		 381,725

Cash flows from investing activities

Acquisition of intangible assets      5              (774)            (257)      (670)         (204)

Acquisition of property, plant and                               (50,000)     (5,013)      (14,098)
                                                                          4   25,350       34,575
equipment                             3              (34,792)
                                                                 163,233              -            -
Dividend received		                                  3
                                                                      218          67          218
(Increase)/Decrease in fixed deposits		              (175,498)
                                                                          -           -            -
Proceeds from disposal of property,

plant and equipment		                                132

Proceeds from advances to an

associate                             9              892

Net cash (used in)/from investing                                113,198      19,734       20,491
 activities		 (210,037)

Cash flows from financing activities

Dividends paid to non-controlling

interests                             7               (10,863)    (20,572)              -          -
                                                                               (30,653)    (35,700)
Dividends paid to owners of the                       (30,653)    (35,700)    (212,482)    97,149

Company                               23             (126,835)   (102,790)       (5,458)    (5,481)
                                                        (5,458)     (5,481)      (1,750)    (1,234)
(Repayment of)/Proceeds from loans                      (2,068)     (1,545)
                                                             42            -          42           -
and borrowings, net		
                                                                              (250,301)    54,734
RCULS coupon payment                  16
                                                                                20,237     (46,648)
Payment of lease liabilities                                                            -          -

Exercise of warrants                  16                                        32,715     79,363

Net cash (used in)/from financing                                (166,088)      52,952     32,715
 activities		 (175,835)

Net (decrease)/increase in cash

and cash equivalents		                               (4,147)     (132,255)
                                                      4,787          4,888
Effect of exchange rate                              86,710
                                                                 214,077
fluctuations on cash held		

Cash and cash equivalents

at 1 January                          14

Cash and cash equivalents             14             87,350      86,710
 at 31 December

128 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
(a) Cash outflows for leases as a lessee

		Group                                                   Company

                                    Note  2023    2022    2023     2022

		 RM’000                                         RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Included in net cash from

operating activities

Payment relating to short-term

leases                              21    118       385   11       270
                                                      67
Payment relating to leases of
                                                  1,785
low-value assets                    21    71        558   67       63

Payment relating to variable lease

payments not included in the

measurement of lease liabilities 21       1,884           829      843

Interest paid in relation to lease

liabilities		 478                                         403      460

Included in net cash from                 2,068   1,545   1,750    1,234
 financing activities                                     3,060    2,870

Payment of lease liabilities

Total cash outflows for leases		 4,619            4,340

(b) Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following balance
sheets amounts:

		Group                                                   Company

                                    Note  2023    2022    2023     2022

		 RM’000                                         RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Deposits placed with licensed banks 14    25,763  30,033  13,644       434
                                          61,587  56,677  39,308   32,281
Cash and bank balances              14

								                                  87,350  86,710  52,952   32,715

                                                  129 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                                                                                Statements of Cash Flows

                                                                                                                                                                        for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)

130 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
(c) Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities

		Net				At 31                                                         Net					

		 changes				 December changes					

                        At  from Acquisition		 Foreign 2022/           from Acquisition		 Foreign                         At 31

                        1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange 1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange December

                        2022 cash flows      lease  of lease movement  2023 cash flows          lease  of lease movement  2023

                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Group

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits       994,114 (56,045)     -      - (3,630) 934,439 (97,183)                  -                  - 5,362 842,618

Unsecured term loans    217,998 (46,745)     -      -      - 171,253 (29,652)                   -                  - 1,463 143,064

Lease liabilities       15,050 (1,545)       23     (105)  - 13,423 (2,068)                     180                (39)  - 11,496

Total liabilities from  1,227,162 (104,335)  23     (105) (3,630) 1,119,115 (128,903)           180                (39) 6,825 997,178
 financing activities

Company

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits       405,054 131,149      -      - (2,166) 534,037 (178,482)                 -                  - 2,928 358,483

Unsecured term loans    153,000 (34,000)     -      -      - 119,000 (34,000)                   -                  -     - 85,000

Lease liabilities       13,619 (1,234)       23     (105)  - 12,303 (1,750)                     180                (39)  - 10,694

Total liabilities from  571,673 95,915       23     (105) (2,166) 665,340 (214,232)             180                (39) 2,928 454,177
 financing activities

                        The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Notes to the
Financial Statements

Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office, which
is also its principal place of business is as follows:

Registered office and principal place of business
Suite 28.01, Level 28
Menara Citibank
165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur

The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and
individually referred to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and joint ventures.

The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements.

These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 4 April 2024.

1. Basis of preparation

       (a) Statement of compliance

                 The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
                 with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards as
                 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the
                 requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

                 The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments of the MFRSs that
                 have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been
                 adopted by the Group and the Company:

                 MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                 after 1 January 2024
                 • Amendments to MFRS 16, Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
                 • Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities

                         with Covenants and Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
                 • Amendments to MFRS 107, Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments:

                         Disclosures – Supplier Finance Arrangements
                  

                                                131 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)

        MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
        after 1 January 2025
        • Amendments to MFRS 121, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lack of

                 Exchangeability

        MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
        after a date yet to be confirmed
        • Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments

                 in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
                 its Associate or Joint Venture

        The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
        interpretations and amendments:

        • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2024 for the amendments that are effective
                 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.

        • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2025 for the amendments that are effective
                 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025.

        The initial application of the abovementioned accounting standards, interpretations or
        amendments is not expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and
        prior period financial statements of the Group and of the Company.

(b) Basis of measurement

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for
the following item, which is measured based on the measurement base stated below:

Item				                                             Measurement base
Derivative financial instruments                     Fair value

(c) Functional and presentation currency

        These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
        functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the
        nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.

(d) Use of estimates and judgements

        The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to
        make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies
        and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ
        from these estimates.

132 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

       (d) Use of estimates and judgements (cont’d)

                 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
                 estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
                 affected.

                 There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
                 accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
                 statements other than those disclosed in the following notes:

                 • Note 4 – e xtension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases
                                             entered into during the year

                 • Note 8 – investments in joint ventures
                 • Note 25 – measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)

2. Changes in material accounting policies

       2.1 Global minimum top-up tax

                 The Group has adopted the amendments to MFRS 112, Income Taxes – International Tax
                 Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules upon their release on 2 June 2023. The amendments provide
                 a temporary mandatory relief from deferred tax accounting for the top-up tax which is applied
                 retrospectively. Since the newly enacted tax legislation in Malaysia and Vietnam will only come
                 into effect in year 2025 and 2024 respectively, there is no current tax impact for the current year
                 ended 31 December 2023. The Group does not expect to be subjected to the top-up tax in
                 relation to its operations in both Malaysia and Vietnam.

       2.2 Material accounting policy information

                 The Group also adopted amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements and
                 MFRS Practice Statement 2 – Disclosures of Accounting Policies from 1 January 2023. The
                 amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’, rather than ‘significant’, accounting policies. The
                 amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting
                 policies, assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that
                 users need to understand other information in the financial statements.

                 Although the amendments did not result in any changes to the Group’s accounting policies, it
                 impacted the accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements. The material
                 accounting policy information is disclosed in the respective notes to the financial statements
                 where relevant.

                                                133 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

3. Property, plant and equipment

		Freehold                                                    Plant,				

		                                                   land,    machinery,		 Capital		

		 buildings                                                  fixtures and Motor work-in-

Group                          Note and jetty                 equipment vehicles progress       Total

		 RM’000                                                     RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2022		                                  359,142  372,411     21,746     48,782     802,081
                                                                 9,513        492    35,887      50,000
Additions		 4,108                                                  (275)     (900)                (1,175)
                                                                   (248)          -          -       (719)
Disposals		                                          -                            -       (41)           -
                                                               46,970             -  (46,954)        (212)
Write-off		 (430)                                                  (212)          -               (3,946)
                                                                       -                     -
Transfers		                                          (16)                             (3,946)

Transfer to intangible assets  5                     -

Reclassifications		                                  -

Effect of movements in

exchange rates		                                     1,358    2,296       196        443 4,293

At 31 December 2022/

1 January 2023		                                     364,162  430,455     21,534     34,171     850,322
                                                                 4,508        618    29,547      34,792
Additions		                                          119           (255)     (663)                   (918)
                                                                   (764)       (29)          -       (793)
Disposals		                                          -                            -          -           -
                                                               11,042             -  (40,386)        (449)
Write-off		                                          -                 -                 (449)           -
                                                                           2,438             -
Transfers		 29,344                                              (2,438)

Transfer to intangible assets  5                     -

Reclassifications		                                  -

Effect of movements in

exchange rates		                                     1,042    2,407       163        605 4,217

At 31 December 2023		                                394,667  444,955 24,061 23,488 887,171

134 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

		Freehold                                     Plant,				

		                                land,        machinery,		 Capital		

		 buildings                                   fixtures and Motor work-in-

Group                          Note and jetty  equipment vehicles progress  Total

		 RM’000                                      RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Accumulated depreciation

At 1 January 2022		               111,261      236,718     17,723     - 365,702
                                                28,891      1,248
Depreciation for the year		       9,233             (275)     (900)   - 39,372
                                                    (230)          -
Disposals		                       -                     8          -  - (1,175)

Write-off		 (194)                                                     -     (424)

Transfer to intangible assets  5  -                                   -     8

Effect of movements in

exchange rates		                  662          1,569       132        - 2,363

At 31 December 2022/

1 January 2023		                  120,962      266,681     18,203     - 405,846
                                                23,933      1,130
Depreciation for the year		       9,147             (234)     (662)   - 34,210
                                                    (745)       (28)
Disposals		                       -              (2,259)    2,259     -     (896)

Write-off		                       -                                   -     (773)

Reclassifications		               -                                   -     -

Effect of movements in

exchange rates		                  644          1,619       113        - 2,376

At 31 December 2023		             130,753      288,995 21,015         - 440,763

Carrying amounts                  247,881      135,693     4,023 48,782 436,379
At 1 January 2022		

At 31 December 2022/              243,200      163,774     3,331 34,171 444,476
 1 January 2023		

At 31 December 2023		             263,914      155,960     3,046 23,488 446,408

                                               135 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

			Plant,				

			machinery,		 Capital		

		 Buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-

Company                        Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress                      Total

		 RM’000                                                     RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2022		                                  245,993  198,686     9,558     12,436     466,673
                                                                 8,412      459       5,130     14,098
Additions		                                          97            (275)   (900)            -    (1,175)
                                                                   (180)        -        (41)       (221)
Disposals		                                          -                          -                       -
                                                               17,350           -   (17,350)        (212)
Write-off		                                          -             (212)                    -

Transfers		                                          -

Transfer to intangible assets  5                     -

At 31 December 2022/

1 January 2023		                                     246,090  223,781     9,117        175     479,163
                                                                 3,519      255     1,239         5,013
Additions		                                          -             (240)   (452)                    (692)
                                                                   (764)       (4)         -        (768)
Disposals		                                          -           1,143          -          -            -
                                                                       -        -   (1,143)          (51)
Write-off		                                          -                                  (51)

Transfers		                                          -

Transfer to intangible assets  5                     -

At 31 December 2023		                                246,090  227,439     8,916     220 482,665

Accumulated depreciation

At 1 January 2022		                                  70,112   135,868     8,897     - 214,877
                                                               14,902       335
Depreciation for the year		                          4,910         (275)   (900)    - 20,147
                                                                   (163)        -
Disposals		                                          -                 8        -   - (1,175)

Write-off		                                          -                              -          (163)

Transfer to intangible assets  5                     -                              -          8

At 31 December 2022/

1 January 2023		                                     75,022   150,340     8,332     - 233,694
                                                               11,491       321
Depreciation for the year		                          4,910         (229)   (451)    - 16,722
                                                                   (745)       (4)
Disposals		                                          -                              -          (680)

Write-off		                                          -                              -          (749)

At 31 December 2023		                                79,932   160,857     8,198     - 248,987

Carrying amounts                                     175,881  62,818      661 12,436 251,796
At 1 January 2022		

At 31 December 2022/                                 171,068  73,441      785       175 245,469
 1 January 2023		

At 31 December 2023		                                166,158  66,582      718       220 233,678

136 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

3.1 Borrowing costs

Included in additions of the Group are borrowing costs capitalised at 3.90% - 6.00% (2022:
2.50% - 4.03%) per annum amounting to RM2,499,000 (2022: RM97,000).

3.2 Material accounting policy information

(a) Recognition and measurement

Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

(b) Depreciation

Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.

The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:

• buildings and jetty                                             10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment                        4 - 20 years
• motor vehicles                                                  5 - 10 years

4. Right-of-use assets                         Leasehold land     Buildings               Total
                                                          RM’000    RM’000             RM’000
        Group
        At 1 January 2022                      7,064              14,683               21,747
        Additions                                    -                 23                   23
        Depreciation
        Lease modification                      (496)             (2,385)              (2,881)
        Effect of movements in exchange rates        -                 91                   91
                                                                          -                 48
        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023         48
        Additions                                                 12,412               19,028
        Depreciation                           6,616                  180                  180
        Lease modification                           -
        Effect of movements in exchange rates                     (2,111)              (2,610)
                                                (499)                  (30)                 (30)
        At 31 December 2023                          -                    -                 37

                                                   37             10,451               16,605

                                               6,154

                                               137 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)                      Leasehold land     Buildings     Total
                                                                RM’000    RM’000   RM’000
        Company
        At 1 January 2022                            4,431              13,298     17,729
        Additions                                          -                 23         23
        Depreciation
        Lease modification                            (134)             (2,034)    (2,168)
                                                           -                 91         91
        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023
        Additions                                    4,297              11,378     15,675
        Depreciation                                       -                180        180
        Lease modification
                                                      (130)             (1,783)    (1,913)
        At 31 December 2023                                -                 (30)       (30)

                                                     4,167               9,745     13,912

The Group leases buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that typically run for a
period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.

4.1 Extension options

        Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
        by the Group. Where applicable, the Group seeks to include extension options in new leases to
        provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and
        not by the lessors. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain
        to exercise the extension options. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to
        exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
        its control.

        As at 31 December 2023, the Group has included all potential future cash flows of exercising the
        extension options in the lease liabilities.

4.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease

        The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it
        is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and
        circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset
        if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.

        The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing
        rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates
        before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term,
        security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.

138 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)

        4.3 Material accounting policy information

                 Recognition exemption

                 The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
                 leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
                 recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
                 basis over the lease term.

                 When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the
                 sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to the right-
                 of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head
                 lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described above, then it
                 classifies the sublease as an operating lease.

5. Intangible assets

		                                              Computer software

                                             Note Group Company

		RM’000                                                RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2022		                             9,045   6,182
                                                          204
Additions		257                                            212
                                                         (401)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment  3  212           -

Write-off		(401)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		         52

At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		            9,165   6,197
                                                          670
Additions		774                                              51
                                                           (16)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment  3  449          (8)
                                                              -
Write-off		(16)

Disposal		(9)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		         43

At 31 December 2023		                           10,406  6,894

                                             139 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

5. Intangible assets (cont’d)

		                                                      Computer software

                                                     Note Group Company

		RM’000                                                       RM’000

Accumulated amortisation

At 1 January 2022		                                     8,704  6,090
                                                                 165
Amortisation for the year		                             257     (401)
                                                                    (8)
Write-off		(401)                                                     -

Transfer from property, plant and equipment          3  (8)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		                 47

At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		                    8,599  5,846
                                                                 260
Amortisation for the year		                             330       (16)
                                                                    (1)
Write-off		(16)                                                      -

Disposal		(1)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		                 44

At 31 December 2023		                                   8,956  6,089
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022		                                       341      92
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		                      566    351
At 31 December 2023		                                   1,450    805

5.1 Intangible assets

        Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
        of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
        the computer software for its intended use.

5.2 Material accounting policy information

        Recognition and measurement

        Computer software acquired by the Group is stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation
        and any accumulated impairment losses.

        Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line
        basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.

        The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.

        Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting
        period and adjusted, if appropriate.

140 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
6. Investment properties                     Freehold    Buildings     Total
                                                   land    RM’000   RM’000
        Group
                                              RM’000
        Cost
        At 1 January 2022/31 December 2022/  3,943       2,836      6,779

          1 January 2023/31 December 2023          -     1,838      1,838
                                                   -         58         58
        Accumulated depreciation                   -
        At 1 January 2022                          -     1,896      1,896
        Depreciation for the year                  -         57         57

        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023   3,943       1,953      1,953
        Depreciation for the year            3,943
                                             3,943         998      4,941
        At 31 December 2023                                940      4,883
                                                           883      4,826
        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2022                    3,672       2,836      6,508

        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023         -     1,838      1,838
                                                   -         58         58
        At 31 December 2023                        -
                                                   -     1,896      1,896
        Company                                    -         57         57

        Cost                                 3,672       1,953      1,953
        At 1 January 2022/31 December 2022/  3,672
                                             3,672         998      4,670
          1 January 2023/31 December 2023                  940      4,612
                                                           883      4,555
        Accumulated depreciation
        At 1 January 2022
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2023

        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2022

        At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023

        At 31 December 2023

                                             141 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

6. Investment properties (cont’d)

6.1 Other income/expenses recognised in the income statements in relation to investment
        properties

		                                                                                  Group and Company

				2023                                                                                     2022

			RM’000                                                                                    RM’000

Lease income			479                                                                           458

Direct operating expenses:

- income generating investment properties			                                        54                 53

6.2 Fair value information

Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:

                                                              Group                 Company

		 2023                                                              2022           2023     2022

		 RM’000                                                            RM’000         RM’000   RM’000

Level 3                                              133,956         124,335        128,956  119,475
Freehold land and buildings		

Level 3 fair value

The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.

 Description of valuation                                       Significant         Inter-relationship between
technique and inputs used                                unobservable inputs         significant unobservable

Comparison method of                                 Recent transactions of             inputs and fair value
valuation which entails                              similar properties at or near          measurements
comparing the property with                          reporting period with similar
similar properties that were                         land usage, land size and      The estimated fair value
sold recently and those that                         location.                      would increase/(decrease)
are currently offered for sale                                                      if recent transactions of
in the vicinity.                                                                    similar properties at or near
                                                                                    reporting period with similar
                                                                                    land usage and land size
                                                                                    were higher/(lower).

        Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value

        The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison
        method. The comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of
        comparable properties in the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location,
        size and shape of land, age and condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other
        relevant characteristics.

6.3 Material accounting policy information

        Investment properties carried at cost are properties which are owned or right-of-use asset held
        under a lease contract to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for
        sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or
        for administrative purposes. Investment properties initially and subsequently measured at cost
        are accounted for similarly to property, plant and equipment. Freehold land is not depreciated.

142 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries

		Company

				2023                                                                               2022

				RM’000                                                                             RM’000

At cost

Unquoted shares			141,800                                                              141,800
                                                                                            (452)
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			                                         (452)

				141,348                                                                            141,348

Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

Name of subsidiary      Principal place of                                             Effective
                        business/Country                                              ownership
                        of incorporation Principal activities
                                                                                        interest

                                                                                 2023  2022
                                                                                  %     %

Dindings Soya &         Malaysia              Manufacture and sale of animal     100   100
                                               feeds and sale of related raw
Multifeeds Sdn. Berhad                         materials

Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia              Trading in corn, soybean meal      51    51

                                              and other feed ingredients

Vimaflour Ltd.*         Vietnam               Milling and selling wheat flour    70    70

                                              together with its allied products

MFM International Ltd. # British Virgin       Investment holding                 100   100
                                     Islands

MFM Property Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia               Investment holding                 100   100

MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia               Dormant                            100   100

Semakin Dinamik         Malaysia              Dormant                            100   100
 Sdn. Bhd.

MFM LTD.                Malaysia              Dormant                            100   100

Muda Fibre              Malaysia              Dormant                            60    60
 Manufacturing
 Sdn. Bhd.

Dindings Broiler Breeder Malaysia             Dormant (in member’s voluntary 100       100
 Farm Sdn. Bhd.^
                                              liquidation)

Syarikat Pengangkutan Malaysia                Dormant (in member’s voluntary 100       100
 Lumut Sdn. Bhd.^
                                              liquidation)

                                                       143 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (cont’d)

Name of subsidiary     Principal place of                                                 Effective
                       business/Country                                                  ownership
Dindings Grand Parent  of incorporation Principal activities
 Farm Sdn. Bhd.^                                                                           interest

                                                                                         2023  2022
                                                                                          %     %

                       Malaysia                      Dormant (in member’s voluntary      100   100
                                                      liquidation)

AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd.^      Malaysia                      Dormant (in member’s voluntary 100        100

                                                      liquidation)

Subsidiary of MFM                                    Milling and selling wheat flour     100   100
 International Ltd.

Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.* Vietnam

                                                      together with its allied products

* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International.

# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.

^ These subsidiaries are in member’s voluntary liquidation.

7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries

The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment. The Group’s
subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:

			 Other

		 Subsidiaries subsidiaries

		 with                                                                                  with

		 material immaterial

		 NCI*                                                                                  NCI      Total
                                                                                               RM’000
		 RM’000                                                                             RM’000

2023                                                                99,081               4,946 104,027
Carrying amount of NCI		

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI                     13,219               (6) 13,213

2022                                                                96,882               4,795 101,677
Carrying amount of NCI		

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI                     10,186               (4) 10,182

* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..

144 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)

		                                                                  Subsidiaries with

		                                                                  material NCI*

			2023                                                                            2022

			RM’000                                                                       RM’000

Summarised financial information before

         intra-group elimination

As at 31 December

Non-current assets			103,442                                                    104,935
                                                                                687,532
Current assets			654,569
                                                                                   (8,278)
Non-current liabilities			                                          (4,120)     (471,421)

Current liabilities			                                              (436,532)

Net assets			317,359                                                            312,768

Year ended 31 December

Revenue			1,840,896                                                             1,708,015
                                                                                    38,021
Profit for the year			                                              37,757          42,109

Total comprehensive income			                                       41,913

Cash flows from operating activities			                             108,185       5,067
Cash flows used in investing activities			                          (83,241)    (29,726)
Cash flows (used in)/from financing activities			                   (44,947)    26,767

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents		              (20,003)       2,108

Dividends paid to NCI			                                            10,863         4,747

        * Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..

7.2 Material accounting policy information

        Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
        impairment losses.

8. Investments in joint ventures

                                                Group               Company

		                                Note  2023            2022        2023           2022

			 RM’000                                              RM’000      RM’000      RM’000

At cost

Unquoted shares		 656,057                               656,057     647,382     647,382
                                                                 -  (35,765)             -
Less: Impairment loss             8.1    -                                               -
                                                         37,541              -
Share of post-acquisition reserves		    52,994                                  647,382
                                                                    611,617
			 709,051                                             693,598

                                                        145 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

8.1 Impairment loss of investment in a joint venture

As at 31 December 2023, the net assets of a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia
(“BFMI”), of RM153,413,000 was lower than its initial cost of investment. Hence, there was an
indication of impairment which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the
investment in the joint venture.

For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the joint venture was determined
based on its value-in-use.

Management estimated the recoverable amount of the Company’s investment in BFMI of
RM157,100,000 and an impairment loss of RM35,765,000 is recognised in the income statement.

8.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to impairment assessment of
        investment in a joint venture

The Company applied significant judgements and assumptions in performing impairment testing
which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investment in a joint
venture and to provide impairment loss when required. The Company considered the joint
ventures’ cash flow projections in determining the recoverable amount of the investment in a
joint venture.

The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value and
the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation.

 Description of valuation                                  Level 3 fair value       Inter-relationship between
technique and inputs used                                       significant          significant unobservable

The valuation method                                     unobservable inputs            inputs and fair value
considers the discounting of                                                                measurements
future cash flows expected                           • Pre-tax discount rate of
to be generated.                                         11% (2022: 13%).           • The estimated fair value
                                                                                        would increase/decrease
                                                     • Annual revenue growth            if the discount rate were
                                                         of 6% for the years 2024       lower/higher.
                                                         to 2026 and 2% for
                                                         the years 2027 to 2033     • The estimated fair value
                                                         (2022: annual revenue          would increase/decrease
                                                         growth of 20%, 8% and          if the annual revenue
                                                         9% for 2023, 2024 and          growth rate were higher/
                                                         2025 respectively, 5% for      lower.
                                                         the years 2026 to 2027
                                                         and 4% for the years       • The estimated fair value
                                                         2028 to 2032).                 would increase/decrease
                                                                                        if the terminal growth rate
                                                     • Terminal growth rate of          were higher/lower.
                                                         2% (2022: 1%).

146 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

8.3 Sensitivity to changes in assumption

The above estimate is particularly sensitive to the annual revenue growth rate.

Group

A decrease of 1 percentage point in the annual revenue growth rate would have resulted in an
impairment loss of RM8,968,000.

Company

        A decrease of 1 percentage point in the annual revenue growth rate would have increased the
        impairment loss by RM12,655,000.
 
The joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:

Name of joint venture     Principal place                                        Percentage of
                          of business/                                             ownership
                          Country of
                          incorporation Principal activities

                                                                                 2023  2022
                                                                                  %     %

Dindings Tyson Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia          Investment holding                   51    51
 (“DTSB”) #

Subsidiaries of DTSB      Malaysia          Breeding and sale of day-old         51    51
Dindings Poultry
                                            chicks (“DOC”), poultry grow-
 Development Centre
 Sdn. Bhd. #                                out farm, purchase and contract

                                            farming activities, manufacture

                                            and sale of animal feeds and

                                            sale of related raw materials

Dindings Poultry Processing Malaysia        Processing and sale of poultry       51    51
 Sdn. Bhd. #                                 products

Dindings Foods Sdn. Bhd. # Malaysia         Dormant                              51    51

PT Bungasari Flour Mills  Indonesia         Milling and selling of wheat flour 30      30
 Indonesia (“BFMI”) *
                                            together with its allied products

# Although the Group has majority voting rights in DTSB, there are substantive rights shared with the
     other shareholder pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement. Accordingly, DTSB and its subsidiaries
     are classified as joint ventures of the Group.

* Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.

                                                     147 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

The following table summarises the financial information of the joint ventures, as adjusted for any
differences in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to
the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures, which is accounted for using the equity
method.

                                                     DTSB        BFMI                    Total

                             2023                          2022  2023        2022        2023     2022

                             RM’000 RM’000                       RM’000 RM’000           RM’000 RM’000

Summarised financial         906,578                 895,685 884,011 774,905 1,790,589 1,670,590
 information                 432,594                 437,365 852,914 872,985 1,285,508 1,310,350
                                                      (15,208) (97,921) (99,597) (107,870) (114,805)
As at 31 December               (9,949)              (268,175) (1,127,628) (1,002,162) (1,356,442) (1,270,337)
Non-current assets           (228,814)
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Net assets                   1,100,409 1,049,667 511,376 546,131 1,611,785 1,595,798

Year ended 31 December

Revenue                      1,141,459 1,109,578 2,224,740 1,815,020 3,366,199 2,924,598

Profit/(Loss) for the year   50,742 151,045 (66,490) (23,376) (15,748) 127,669

Reconciliation of net        490,569                 464,690     153,413     163,839     643,982  628,529
 assets to carrying           65,069                  65,069              -           -   65,069   65,069
 amount as at
 31 December                                                     153,413     163,839     709,051  693,598

Group’s share of net assets
Goodwill

Carrying amount in the       555,638 529,759
 balance sheet

Group’s share of results     25,879 77,033 (19,947)                          (7,013)     5,932 70,020
 for year ended
 31 December

Group’s share of profit/
 (loss) for the year

148 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

        8.4 Contingent liabilities

                 PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”)

                 Corporate guarantee

                 The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD15.0 million (2022:
                 USD15.0 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint venturer,
                 BFMI. As at 31 December 2023, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to USD3.6
                 million (2022: USD7.6 million).

                 Dindings Poultry Development Centre Sdn. Bhd. (“DPDC”)

                 Litigation

                 On 5 August 2022, DPDC received a Notice of Proposed Decision issued by the Malaysia
                 Competition Commission (“MyCC”) pursuant to Section 36 of the Competition Act 2010 (“the
                 Act”) (“Proposed Decision”). The Proposed Decision is premised primarily on the allegation that
                 DPDC had engaged in agreements and/or concerted practices to fix the quantum of poultry feed
                 price which is in breach of Section 4(1) read together with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Act.

                 DPDC strongly denies the allegation of the aforesaid infringement which is without merit and
                 intends to defend such unfounded allegation vigorously. DPDC has appointed external legal
                 counsel to represent it and submit written representations and make an oral representation before
                 MyCC. However, in the event of any findings to the contrary, MyCC has proposed a financial
                 penalty equivalent to 10% based on the relevant turnover and based on MyCC’s calculations
                 for the alleged period which amounts to RM70 million. DPDC denies that it is liable for the said
                 penalty and refutes the basis of the calculation applied by MyCC. DPDC submitted its written
                 submission to MyCC on 31 January 2023 rebutting the allegation of the aforesaid infringement
                 and made its oral representation on 29 and 31 May 2023.

                 On 22 December 2023, DPDC received MyCC’s Notice of Finding of An Infringement under
                 Section 40 of the Competition Act 2010 together with the Decision of Infringement under Section
                 4(1) read with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Competition Act 2010 dated 11 December 2023
                 (“the Decision”). MyCC maintains its finding of price-fixing infringement with imposition of
                 financial penalty of RM70 million on DPDC.

                 The legal counsel is of the view that there are sufficient grounds to challenge the Decision. On
                 9 January 2024, DPDC filed a Notice of Appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal to appeal
                 against the Decision and applied for a stay of the Decision pending appeal.

                 Based on the advice of the legal counsel, the Directors concur with DPDC’s view that no provision
                 is required in the financial statements at this juncture.

        8.5 Material accounting policy information

                 Investments in joint ventures are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
                 impairment losses.

                                                149 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

9. Investment in an associate

		Group

				2023                                                                                          2022

				RM’000                                                                                        RM’000

At cost                                                                                  15           15
- Unquoted shares                                                                      197        1,105
- Advances to an associate                                                              (15)
Share of post-acquisition reserves                                                     (197)         (59)
Impairment loss                                                                                         -

                                                                                       -          1,061

In previous financial years, advances to an associate of RM1,105,000 was capitalised as cost of
investment.

During the financial year, advances to an associate amounting to RM892,000 was repaid in cash and
RM16,000 was offset against amount due to an associate.

Details of the associate are as follows:

Name of entity                                       Principal place of  Nature                Effective
                                                     business/Country    of the               ownership
                                                     of incorporation    relationship
                                                                                                interest

                                                                                       2023       2022
                                                                                        %          %

Freeman Properties Holding Ltd.                      Cambodia            Investment           49  49

(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)

9.1 Material accounting policy information

        Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
        impairment losses.

150 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

10.1 Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                             Assets                Liabilities                      Net

                             2023       2022       2023       2022       2023            2022

                             RM’000 RM’000         RM’000 RM’000         RM’000 RM’000

Group

Property, plant and                  -        -    (28,314)   (26,444)   (28,314)        (26,444)
 equipment                           -        -     (3,225)    (3,646)    (3,225)         (3,646)
                              2,566     2,953              -          -    2,566           2,953
Right-of-use assets              648    1,716              -          -      648           1,716
Lease liabilities             4,031     3,353              -          -    4,031           3,353
RCULS
Provisions                           -  5,493              -          -          -         5,493
Reinvestment
                             10,862     9,350              -          -  10,862            9,350
 allowances
Unabsorbed capital            2,439     1,719              -          -    2,439           1,719
                                  83      739       (1,062)           -      (979)           739
 allowances
Tax losses

 carry-forward
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)     20,629 25,323         (32,601)   (30,090)   (11,972)        (4,767)
Set-off of tax               (14,465) (19,552)     14,465     19,552             -              -

Net tax assets/              6,164      5,771 (18,136) (10,538) (11,972) (4,767)
 (liabilities)

Company

Property, plant and                -          -    (20,805)   (20,621)   (20,805)        (20,621)
 equipment                         -          -     (3,225)    (3,646)    (3,225)         (3,646)
                             2,566      2,953              -          -    2,566           2,953
Right-of-use assets            648      1,716              -          -      648           1,716
Lease liabilities            3,614      3,008              -          -    3,614           3,008
RCULS
Provisions                         -    5,493              -          -          -         5,493
Reinvestment                     83       563              -          -        83            563

 allowances
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)     6,911 13,733          (24,030)   (24,267)   (17,119)        (10,534)
Set-off of tax               (6,911) (13,733)        6,911    13,733             -               -

        Net tax liabilities  -          - (17,119) (10,534) (17,119) (10,534)
 

                                                   151 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

10.2 Movement in temporary differences during the year

		Recognised			Recognised

		                                                   in the Recognised		  in the Recognised

		 income directly in                                       At income directly in

                   At statements                     equity 31.12.2022/ statements  equity   At

                   1.1.2022 (Note 20) (Note 16) 1.1.2023 (Note 20) (Note 16) 31.12.2023

                   RM’000     RM’000                 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000           RM’000 RM’000

Group

Property, plant    (23,200)   (3,244)                    -  (26,444)      (1,870)   - (28,314)
 and equipment
                    (4,255)      609                     -   (3,646)         421    -        (3,225)
Right-of-use         3,269      (316)                    -    2,953         (387)
 assets              2,872      (906)                (250)    1,716       (1,059)   -        2,566
                     3,142       211                     -    3,353          678
Lease liabilities                                                                   (9)      648
RCULS                7,399    (1,906)                    -    5,493       (5,493)
Provisions                                                                          -        4,031
Reinvestment         8,200    1,150
                                                                                    -        -
 allowances          3,809    (2,090)
Unabsorbed             (385)  1,124                  -      9,350         1,512     - 10,862

 capital                                             -      1,719         720       -        2,439
 allowances
Tax losses                                           -      739           (1,718)   -        (979)
 carry-forward
Others

                   851        (5,368)                (250)  (4,767)       (7,196)   (9) (11,972)

Company

Property, plant    (17,564)   (3,057)                    -  (20,621)        (184)   - (20,805)
 and equipment
                    (4,255)      609                     -   (3,646)         421    -        (3,225)
Right-of-use         3,269      (316)                    -    2,953         (387)
 assets              2,872      (906)                (250)    1,716       (1,059)   -        2,566
                     2,471       537                     -    3,008          606
Lease liabilities                                                                   (9)      648
RCULS                7,399    (1,906)                    -    5,493       (5,493)
Provisions              (67)     630                     -      563         (480)   -        3,614
Reinvestment
                                                                                    -        -
 allowances
Others                                                                              -        83

                   (5,875)    (4,409)                (250) (10,534)       (6,576)   (9) (17,119)

152 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

10.3 Unrecognised deferred tax assets

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items (stated at gross):

		Group

				2023                                                                        2022

				RM’000                                                                      RM’000

Unabsorbed capital allowances                                         1,431      1,431
Tax losses carry-forward                                             19,858     24,925
Other deductible temporary differences
                                                                         341        351

                                                                     21,630     26,707

The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except
for the tax losses carry-forward. Pursuant to the Finance Act 2021, the tax losses carry-forward
can only be carried forward up to 10 consecutive Years of Assessment.

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not
probable that sufficient future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise
the benefits there from.

11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives

                                                  Group              Company

                                   Note  2023            2022        2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                RM’000      RM’000     RM’000

Non-current

Other receivables

- contingent consideration

receivable                         11.1  -               71,065      -          71,065

Current

Trade receivables from

contracts with customers		               384,475         428,348     99,387     104,806
                                                                  -  82,258     116,477
Amounts due from subsidiaries 11.2       -
                                                            9,547     4,157        2,708
Other receivables                  11.3  17,208
                                                         119,971             -  119,971
Contingent consideration                                  10,601      5,461      10,601
                                                            3,817                  1,001
receivable                         11.1  -                               990
                                                                13                       -
Amounts due from joint ventures 11.4     5,531                            98

Deposits		 1,292

Derivatives at fair value through

profit or loss:

- future and option contracts		          291

		 408,797                                               572,297     192,351    355,564

		 408,797                                               643,362     192,351    426,629
 

                                                  153 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives (cont’d)

        11.1 Contingent consideration receivable

                 On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in DTSB
                 for a total cash consideration of RM445,028,000. During the year, contingent consideration of
                 RM119,971,000 was received, with a final contingent consideration due in 2024 based on the
                 financial targets as at 31 December 2023.

                 As at 31 December 2023, management assessed the final contingent consideration and has
                 recognised a loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000
                 (2022: write back on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000) in
                 the income statements.

                 In the previous financial year, the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value
                 and the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation is shown in the table
                 below.

        Description of                                     Level 3 fair value     Inter-relationship between
    valuation technique                                         significant        significant unobservable

       and inputs used                                   unobservable inputs          inputs and fair value
                                                                                           measurement
The valuation method                                 Discount rate of 4% derived
considered the estimated                             based on the counterparty’s  The estimated fair value
consideration receivable                             credit risk adjusted with a  would increase/decrease
from the joint venturer based                        reasonable risk premium.     if the discount rate were
on the achievability of certain                                                   lower/higher.
financial targets.

11.2 Amounts due from subsidiaries

        The amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and subject to interest
        ranging from 2.61% - 5.50% (2022: 1.97% - 4.00%) per annum.

11.3 Other receivables

        Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM4,685,000 (2022:
        RM4,644,000) and interest receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks of RM10,553,000
        (2022: RM2,522,000).

        Included in other receivables of the Company are advances paid to suppliers of RM2,336,000
        (2022: RM414,000).

11.4 Amounts due from joint ventures

        The amounts due from joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.

154 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
12. Inventories

                                                  Group           Company

		 2023                                                  2022     2023      2022

		 RM’000                                                RM’000   RM’000    RM’000

Raw materials		 471,774                                  570,295  141,423   181,575
Finished goods		 33,366                                   32,548   10,826    13,844
Consumables		18,781                                       24,988     6,187     7,468

			 523,921                                              627,831  158,436   202,887

Recognised in the income statements:   2,742,778  2,535,562       601,433   531,836
Inventories recognised as cost

 of goods sold		

12.1 Material accounting policy information

        Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is
        calculated using the weighted average method.

13. Fixed deposits

		Group

				2023                                                                    2022

				RM’000                                                                  RM’000

Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks with                    332,717   157,219
 maturity of more than 3 months				

Fixed deposits represent time deposits at banks with maturity of more than 3 months to less than
12 months.

Included in fixed deposits are deposits received from customers amounting to RM15,413,000 (2022:
RM14,980,000) which are subject to restriction in use in accordance with agreements with customers.

14. Cash and cash equivalents

                                                  Group           Company

		 2023                                                  2022     2023      2022

		 RM’000                                                RM’000   RM’000    RM’000

Deposits placed with licensed banks		  25,763            30,033   13,644        434
Cash and bank balances		               61,587            56,677   39,308    32,281

			 87,350                                               86,710   52,952    32,715

                                                  155 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

15. Asset classified as held for sale

Certain plant and equipment previously classified as property, plant and equipment was presented as
an asset held for sale following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset during the year.
Efforts to sell the plant and equipment have commenced, and a sale is expected in financial year 2024.

		                                                                            Group and Company

				2023                                                                                  2022

				RM’000                                                                                RM’000

Asset classified as held for sale                                             33,597      33,597
Plant and equipment				

The carrying value of the asset held for sale is the same as its carrying value before it was reclassified
from property, plant and equipment.

16. Capital and reserves

Share capital

                                                                Group and Company

			 Number		Number

		                                                   Amount     of shares     Amount of shares

		 2023                                                         2023          2022        2022

		 RM’000                                                       ’000          RM’000      ’000

Issued and fully paid shares with no                 535,902    1,020,210     535,623     1,019,653
 par value:                                             1,311        2,622         279            557
 Ordinary shares                                            49            61           *              *
   At 1 January		
   Conversion of RCULS		
   Exercise of warrants		

At 31 December		                                     537,262 1,022,893        535,902 1,020,210

* Denotes 50 ordinary shares amounting to RM41.

16.1 Ordinary shares

        The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time,
        and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

156 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

16.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)

		                                                           Group and Company

				2023                                                              2022

				RM’000                                                            RM’000

RCULS - Equity portion                                       77,410   78,694

RCULS - Liability portion                                          -  2,126
 Non-current                                                 2,702    5,026
 Current

                                                             2,702    7,152

                                                             80,112   85,846

On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of
5-year 5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for
every ten (10) existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis
of one (1) Bonus Share A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A
on the basis of one (1) Free Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed
following the listings and quotation on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.

The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:

(i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior
        to conversion of the RCULS;

(ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”)
        with the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of
        RM1.00 surrendered;

(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment
        and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
        they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
        which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;

(iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up
        to 24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);

(v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on
        the Maturity Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such
        RCULS up to the Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being
        served no less than 30 days or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity
        Date; and

(vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity
        Date, shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion
        Price on the Maturity Date.

                                       157 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

16.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)

                                                                Group and Company

			 Equity                                                                  Liability

			 component component                                                                   Total
                                                                                       RM’000
			 RM’000                                                                  RM’000

As at 1 January 2022			                                         78,179      11,967     90,146
Conversion of RCULS to share capital*		                            (259)         (20)     (279)
RCULS coupon payment			                                                 -
Interest expense on RCULS			                                            -   (5,481)    (5,481)
RCULS liabilities reduction arising from                                     1,710      1,710
                                                                 1,024
 conversion of RCULS to share capital		                                     (1,024)            -
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):                                     (250)
                                                                                    -     (250)
 - on conversion			

As at 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		                         78,694      7,152      85,846
                                                                                (36)   (1,311)
Conversion of RCULS to share capital#		 (1,275)                                        (5,458)
                                                                            (5,458)     1,044
RCULS coupon payment			                                         -           1,044
                                                                                             (9)
Interest expense on RCULS			                                    -                  -

Deferred tax effect (Note 10):

- on conversion			                                              (9)

As at 31 December 2023			                                       77,410      2,702      80,112

* In the previous financial year, 556,880 new ordinary shares amounting to RM279,000 were
      issued resulting from the conversion of 278,440 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
      RM0.50 each.

# During the financial year, 2,621,656 new ordinary shares amounting to RM1,311,000 were
      issued resulting from the conversion of 1,310,828 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
      RM0.50 each.

As at 31 December 2023, 108,094,759 RCULS remained unconverted.

16.3 Warrant reserve

                                                                Group and Company

			                                                             Number of		            Number of
		 Amount                                                                                warrants
		 2023                                                         warrants    Amount             2022
								 RM’000                                                                                 ’000
                                                                2023        2022

                                                                ’000        RM’000

At 1 January		                                       17,770     136,689     17,770     136,689
Exercised during the year		                                (7)        (61)          *           *

At 31 December		                                     17,763     136,628     17,770     136,689

* Denotes 50 warrants amounting to RM7.

158 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

        16.3 Warrant reserve (cont’d)

                 On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights
                 Shares and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).

                 The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the
                 Rights Issue. The warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed
                 Poll”). The salient features of the warrants are as follows:

                 (i) Each warrant entitles the warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
                         Company at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on 23 January
                         2024 (“Exercise Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with provisions of
                         the Deed Poll;

                 (ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any warrants which have not been exercised shall
                         automatically lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and

                 (iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will, upon allotment
                         and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
                         they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
                         which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.

                 In the previous financial year, 50 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to RM34.
                 This resulted in the issuance of 50 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant reserve of RM7
                 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised amounted to RM41.

                 During the financial year, 60,607 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to
                 RM42,000. This resulted in the issuance of 60,607 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant
                 reserve of RM7,000 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised
                 amounted to RM49,000.

                 As at 31 December 2023, 136,627,710 warrants remained unexercised.

        16.4 Other capital reserve

                 Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
                 reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.

        16.5 Translation reserve

                 The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of
                 the financial statements of foreign operations.
         

                                                159 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

17. Loans and borrowings

                                                              Group             Company

		 2023                                                              2022       2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Non-current                                          72,060          120,711    51,000     85,000
Unsecured term loans		

Current                                              842,618         934,439    358,483    534,037
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/                       71,004          50,542     34,000     34,000

 Unsecured revolving credits		                                                  392,483    568,037
Unsecured term loans		
                                                                                443,483    653,037
						 913,622                                                       984,981

Total loans and borrowings		                         985,682  1,105,692

18. Trade and other payables, including derivatives

                                                              Group             Company

                             Note                    2023            2022       2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Trade payables		                                     40,275          49,933     10,907      9,185
                                                                             -  11,076     11,188
Amounts due to subsidiaries  18.1                    -
                                                                      1,874             -          -
Amounts due to joint ventures 18.2                   3,110           63,582     27,327     24,671

Other payables and accruals  18.3                    65,382               44

Derivatives at fair value                                             9,871

through profit or loss:

- future and option contracts		                      -                                  -       44
                                                                                 1,265      6,053
- foreign currency forward                                                      50,575     51,141

contracts		 1,360

		110,127                                                            125,304

18.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries

        The amounts due to subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free, except
        for RM265,000 (2022: RM365,000) which is subject to interest at 5.50% (2022: 4.00%) per annum.

18.2 Amounts due to joint ventures

        The amounts due to joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.

18.3 Other payables and accruals

        Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits from
        customers of RM22,531,000 (2022: RM21,653,000) and RM254,000 (2022: RM214,000)
        respectively.

160 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
19. Revenue

                                                   Group            Company

		 2023                                                   2022      2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                 RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Revenue from contracts with customers 3,148,901    2,915,570        779,166    678,546

Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.

20. Tax expense/(credit)

20.1 Recognised in the income statements

                                                   Group            Company

		 2023                                                   2022      2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                 RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Income tax expense		                      26,677          25,444    13,342     4,760
Share of tax of equity-accounted          (3,061)         (25,554)
                                                                    -          -
 joint ventures

Total income tax expense/(credit)         23,616          (110)     13,342     4,760

Current tax expense                       18,687          21,304    5,979      1,588
- current year		                              794         (1,228)     787      (1,237)
- under/(over) provision in prior
                                                                    6,766         351
   year		

Total current tax expense		               19,481          20,076

Deferred tax expense                      3,979           4,577      3,455     3,697
Origination of temporary                  3,217             791      3,121       712
                                                                     6,576
 differences		                                                                 4,409
Under provision in prior year		                                             -
                                                                    13,342           -
Total deferred tax expense		              7,196           5,368                4,760

Share of tax of equity-accounted          (3,061)         (25,554)
 joint ventures

Total tax expense/(credit)		              23,616          (110)

                                                   161 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

20. Tax expense/(credit) (cont’d)

20.2 Reconciliation of tax expense/(credit)

                                                             Group              Company

		 2023                                                             2022        2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                           RM’000      RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year		                          5,285         154,000     (70,444)   124,272
Total tax expense/(credit)		                         23,616              (110)  13,342        4,760

Profit/(Loss) before tax		                           28,901         153,890     (57,102)   129,032

Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24%                     6,936          36,934      (13,704)   30,968

Effect of tax rates in foreign                                       (6,395)

jurisdictions                                        (4,136)            166     -          -
                                                                      3,621
Difference in effective tax rate in                                  (3,552)

equity-accounted joint ventures                      474             (4,934)            -          -
                                                                                29,328       2,855
Non-deductible expenses		                            22,922         (42,101)    (6,084)    (23,428)

Non-taxable income		                                 (5,954)        16,812
                                                                        (224)
Difference in effective tax rate

for foreign source income		                          1                          1          (4,934)

Recognition of deferred tax

assets		 (1,199)                                                                -          -

Deferred tax assets not

recognised		                                         -                              -          -
                                                                                (107)      (176)
Others		 561

		 19,605                                                           327         9,434      5,285
                                                                    (437)
Under/(Over) provision in

prior year		                                         4,011                       3,908      (525)
                                                                                13,342     4,760
		 23,616                                                           (110)

20.3 Income tax recognised directly in equity

                                                             Group              Company

                                Note                 2023           2022        2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                           RM’000      RM’000     RM’000

        RCULS                     10                 9              250         9          250
        - Deferred tax
 

162 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
21. Profit/(Loss) for the year

                                                 Group             Company

                                   Note  2023           2022       2023       2022

		 RM’000                                               RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting):

Auditors’ remunerations

Audit fees:

- KPMG PLT		                             234            234        130        130

- Member firms of KPMG

International Limited		179                              129        -          -

- Other auditors		                       105            75         90         7

Non-audit fees:

- KPMG PLT		                             39             39         39         39

- Local affiliates of KPMG PLT		         87             894        65         845

Material expenses/(income)

Amortisation of intangible assets 5      330                257        260          165
                                                              58
Depreciation of investment                                               57           58
                                                        39,372
properties                           6   57               2,881    16,722       20,147
                                                                -    1,913        2,168
Depreciation of property, plant                             (187)
                                                                   (25,347)   (112,292)
and equipment                        3   34,210         (16,606)       (985)       (157)
                                                            (382)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4    2,610                  -
                                                             (11)
Dividend income from
                                                            (187)
subsidiaries (unquoted)		                -

Insurance recoveries		(2,240)

Interest income of financial

assets calculated using the

effective interest method that are:

- at amortised cost:

- deposits placed with

licensed banks		(24,218)                                             (704)      (687)
                                                                       (95)       (79)
- debtors		 (327)
                                                                   (2,445)    (1,170)
- subsidiaries		                         -                           (944)        (11)

- joint ventures                         (944)                         (59)     (187)

- at fair value through profit or

loss (“FVTPL”):

- liquid investment		                    (59)

                                                 163 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

21. Profit/(Loss) for the year (cont’d)

                                                                 Group             Company

                                    Note                2023            2022       2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                               RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting): (cont’d)

Material expenses/(income)

(cont’d)

Interest expense of financial

liabilities that are not at FVTPL:

- recognised in the income

statements:

- unsecured bankers’

acceptances/unsecured

revolving credits		 48,713                                              32,593     21,421     12,175
                                                                         6,907       5,139     5,203
- unsecured term loans		                                6,919                   -      131     1,651
                                                                         1,710       1,044     1,710
- subsidiaries		                                        -                   558        403        460

- RCULS		 1,044                                                          3,742         720        230
                                                                            770        (143)       40
- lease liabilities		                                   478
                                                                        14,359         (770)     (920)
Net loss/(gain) on future and                                            4,860      (2,263)    3,348

option contracts:                                                       (8,819)    71,065     (8,819)
                                                                                -
- realised		5,132                                                               -  (35,765)           -

- unrealised		                                          (322)            7,545             -          -
                                                                        72,679
Net (gain)/loss on foreign

exchange:

- realised		                                            (3,269)

- unrealised		 (2,127)

Loss/(Write back) on

remeasurement of contingent

consideration receivable            11.1                71,065

Impairment of investment in a

joint venture                       8.1                 -

Impairment of investment in an

associate                                            9  197

Personnel expense (including

key management personnel):

- Contributions to Employees

Provident Fund		 8,261                                                              5,586      5,179
                                                                                   51,823     45,999
- Wages, salaries and others		                          81,083

Other expenses/(income)

arising from leases

Expenses relating to short-term

leases		 118                                                            385        11         270

164 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
21. Profit/(Loss) for the year (cont’d)

                                                  Group             Company

		 2023                                                  2022       2023                2022

		 RM’000                                                RM’000     RM’000              RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting): (cont’d)

Other expenses/(income)

arising from leases (cont’d)

Expenses relating to leases of

low-value assets		 71                                        67     67                  63
                                                         1,785
Expenses relating to variable
                                                               -
lease payments not included in

the measurement of lease

liabilities		1,884                                                  829                 843

Income from subleasing

right-of-use assets (excluding

subleasing of investment

properties)		                                  -                    (1,155)             (1,155)

Net loss/(gain) on impairment        1,357               (1,494)    873                 156
 of financial instruments

Financial assets at amortised cost:
 - Trade receivables		

22. Earnings per ordinary share

22.1 Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share was based on the (loss)/profit
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding, calculated as follows:

		Group

				2023                                                                                2022

				RM’000                                                                              RM’000

(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  (6,681)             145,045

				’000                                                                                       ’000
                 Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,021,580  1,019,923

				Sen                                                                                   Sen
                                                                                        14.22
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share			                         (0.65)

                                                  165 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

22. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)

22.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)

		Group

				2023                                                                                2022

				RM’000                                                                              RM’000

(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  (6,681)             145,045
                                                                                          (8,819)
Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement of contingent consideration

receivable				71,065

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the                 64,384              136,226
 Company (adjusted)

				’000                                                                                       ’000
                 Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,021,580  1,019,923

				Sen                                                                                   Sen
                                                                                        13.36
Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)                        6.30

22.3 Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share was based on (loss)/profit attributable
to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have
been in issue upon the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding
warrants, calculated as follows:

		Group

				2023                                                                                2022

				RM’000                                                                              RM’000

(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  (6,681)             145,045
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			                            1,044                  1,710

				 (5,637)                                                                            146,755

				’000                                                                                       ’000

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December                               1,019,923
                                                                                          218,811
(basic)				1,021,580                                                                      136,688

Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS		                 216,190             1,375,422

Potential dilution arising from outstanding warrants		              72*

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December
 (diluted)				1,237,842

				Sen                                                                                 Sen

Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share			                       (0.46)              10.67

                           *	Actual warrants exercised subsequent to the balance sheet date and up to the warrants
                                 expiry date of 23 January 2024.

166 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
22. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)

22.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)

		Group

				2023                                                                             2022

				RM’000                                                                           RM’000

      (Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  (6,681)    145,045
      Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			                            1,044         1,710

      				 (5,637)                                                                   146,755
      Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement of contingent consideration                   (8,819)

       receivable				71,065

      				 65,428                                                                    137,936

      				’000                                                                              ’000
                                                                                     1,375,422
      Weighted average number of ordinary shares at                       1,237,842
       31 December (diluted)				

      				Sen                                                                          Sen
                                                                                     10.03
      Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)                      5.29

23. Dividends

Dividends recognised by the Company are:

				                   Sen                            Total		

				                   per share                      amount              Date of payment

					                                                 RM’000

2023

Interim 2022 ordinary  1.50                           15,315              24 March 2023
                                                      15,338              29 September 2023
Interim 2023 ordinary  1.50
                                                      30,653
					

2022

Interim 2021 ordinary  2.00                           20,398              25 March 2022
                                                      15,302              23 September 2022
Interim 2022 ordinary  1.50
                                                      35,700
					

On 29 February 2024, the Directors declared a second interim dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share
totalling approximately RM18,587,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023, which
was paid on 29 March 2024.

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

                                            167 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Operating segments

Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management reports on a regular basis.

The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:

• Flour and grain trading                            Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and other
		                                                   allied products

• Poultry integration                                Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
                                                     poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
                                                     day-old-chicks and contract farming activities

• Others                                             Manufacture and sale of aqua feeds and remeasurement of
                                                     contingent consideration receivable

Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.

The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
assets is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.

               Flour and grain		

               trading                               Poultry integration     Others             Consolidated

               2023        2022                      2023  2022              2023      2022     2023      2022

               RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                                   RM’000 RM’000      RM’000 RM’000

Business       3,065,456  2,843,606                  -                    -  83,445    71,964 3,148,901 2,915,570
 segments         26,084     24,885                                                 -
                                                     -                    -            -        26,084 24,885
Revenue from
 external
 customers

Inter-segment
 revenue

Total segment

revenue        3,091,540 2,868,491                   -                    -  83,445    71,964 3,174,985 2,940,455

Results from   125,346    127,724                    -                    -  3,124     (2,520)  128,470 125,204
 operating
 activities                                                                  (1,780)   (1,704)  (57,154) (41,768)
                                                                               127           -   25,548 17,186
Interest expense (55,374) (40,064)                   -                    -

Interest income 25,421    17,186                     -                    -

(Loss)/Write

back on

remeasurement

of contingent

consideration

receivable     -           -                         -                    -  (71,065)  8,819    (71,065)  8,819

168 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Operating segments (cont’d)

                    Flour and grain		

                    trading                 Poultry integration     Others            Consolidated

                    2023      2022          2023      2022          2023       2022   2023   2022

                    RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                     RM’000 RM’000     RM’000 RM’000

Share of (loss)/    (19,947)  (7,013)       25,879    77,033        -          -      5,932 70,020
 profit of equity-      231      (17)              -         -
 accounted                                                          -          -      231           (17)
 joint ventures,
 net of tax

Share of profit/
 (loss) of equity-
 accounted
 associate,
 net of tax

Profit/(Loss)       75,677    97,816        25,879    77,033        (69,594)   4,595  31,962 179,444
 before tax

Depreciation and

amortisation (33,189) (38,511)              -                    -  (4,018)    (4,057) (37,207) (42,568)

Tax (expense)/

credit              (26,491) (26,047)       -                    -  (186)      603    (26,677) (25,444)

Insurance

recoveries          2,096     187           -                    -  144        -      2,240  187

Non-cash

expense

other than

depreciation

and

amortisation        2,356     (6,364)       -                    -  (318)      70     2,038  (6,294)

Capital

expenditure         (34,878) (48,897)       -                    -      (688)    (1,360) (35,566) (50,257)
                                                                    110,287    112,446 1,871,689 2,036,768
Segment assets 1,761,402      1,924,322     -                    -
                                163,839                                     -
Investments in                           -                                  -

joint ventures 153,413                      555,638 529,759                    - 709,051 693,598

Investment in

an associate        -                       -                    -             1,061  -      1,061

Total segments

assets              1,914,815 2,088,161     555,638 529,759         110,287 113,507 2,580,740 2,731,427

                                                                    169 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Operating segments (cont’d)

Geographical segments

In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical
location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.

                           Malaysia                            Vietnam              Consolidated

                           2023                      2022      2023           2022  2023       2022

                       RM’000 RM’000                       RM’000 RM’000            RM’000 RM’000

Revenue from external  1,821,006 1,638,770 1,327,895 1,276,800 3,148,901 2,915,570
 customers

Non-current assets     1,039,769 1,112,346 144,735 128,102 1,184,504 1,240,448

Major customers

There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: Nil).

25. Financial instruments

25.1 Categories of financial instruments

The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:

(a) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
        - Mandatorily required by MFRS 9

(b) Amortised cost (“AC”)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                                         Note amount              AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                                          RM’000     RM’000

Group

2023                                                       11  408,797              408,506    291
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,                               13  332,717              332,717       -

 including derivatives		                                   14  87,350               87,350        -
Fixed deposits		
Cash and cash equivalents		

			 828,864                                                                         828,573    291

Financial liabilities                                      18  (110,127)            (108,767)  (1,360)
Trade and other payables,                                                                             -
                                                           17  (985,682)            (985,682)         -
 including derivatives		
Loans and borrowings		                                     16        (2,702)        (2,702)
RCULS - Liabilities		

			 (1,098,511) (1,097,151)                                                                    (1,360)

170 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                  Note amount                    AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                         RM’000        RM’000

Company

2023                                               11  192,351     192,253       98
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,                       14  52,952      52,952        -

 including derivatives		
Cash and cash equivalents		

			 245,303                                                        245,205       98

Financial liabilities                              18  (50,575)    (49,310)      (1,265)
Trade and other payables,                                                               -
                                                   17  (443,483)   (443,483)            -
 including derivatives		
Loans and borrowings		                             16  (2,702)     (2,702)
RCULS - Liabilities		

			 (496,760)                                                      (495,495)     (1,265)

Group

2022                                               11  643,362        452,313    191,049
Financial assets                                                      157,219             -
Trade and other receivables,                       13  157,219                            -
                                                                       86,710
 including derivatives		                           14  86,710         696,242    191,049
Fixed deposits		
Cash and cash equivalents		                                          (115,389)     (9,915)
                                                                   (1,105,692)            -
			 887,291                                                                               -
                                                                        (7,152)
Financial liabilities                              18  (125,304)   (1,228,233)     (9,915)
Trade and other payables,
                                                   17 (1,105,692)     235,593    191,036
 including derivatives		                                               32,715             -
Loans and borrowings		                             16  (7,152)
RCULS - Liabilities		                                                 268,308    191,036

			 (1,238,148)

Company

2022                                               11  426,629
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,                       14  32,715

 including derivatives		
Cash and cash equivalents		

			 459,344

                                                       171 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                                   Note amount                 AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                                       RM’000     RM’000

Company

2022                                                 18                (51,141)  (45,044)   (6,097)
Financial liabilities                                                                              -
Trade and other payables,                            17         (653,037)        (653,037)         -

 including derivatives		                             16                (7,152)   (7,152)
Loans and borrowings		
RCULS - Liabilities		

			 (711,330)                                                                    (705,233)  (6,097)

25.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments

                                                                Group            Company

		 2023                                                                2022      2023       2022

                                                     RM’000            RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Net (losses)/gains on:                                 8,511            (7,796)    4,788     (4,771)
Financial assets/(liabilities) at                     (4,810)           (4,512)      (577)      (271)
                                                     (71,065)            8,819
 FVTPL:                                                                          (71,065)     8,819
 Mandatorily required by MFRS 9                            59              187         59       187
 - foreign currency forward                          24,132            18,493
                                                                                   3,315      1,791
     contracts                                       (59,791)          (53,968)
 - future and option contracts                                                   (29,490)   (18,395)
 - other receivables
 - liquid investments                                                            (92,970)   (12,640)
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial liabilities measured at
 amortised cost

                                                     (102,964)         (38,777)

25.3 Financial risk management

        The Group has exposure to the following risks from its financial instruments:

        • Credit risk
        • Interest rate risk
        • Foreign currency risk
        • Liquidity risk

172 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
to prior periods.

Trade receivables

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
evaluations and institutes mitigating actions.  New customers are subject to credit evaluation
process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.

At each reporting date, the Group or the Company assesses whether any of the trade receivables
are credit impaired.

The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
fully) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.

Exposure to credit risk and credit quality

At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.

The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.

Concentration of credit risk

The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region
was:

                                            Group                         Company

		 2023                                            2022         2023               2022

		 RM’000                                          RM’000       RM’000             RM’000

Malaysia		 260,301                                 298,930      99,387             104,806
Vietnam		 124,174                                  129,418              -                   -

		 384,475                                         428,348      99,387             104,806

                                            173 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage their debtors
and take appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within 90 days. The Group’s and the Company’s
debt recovery process are as follows:

(a) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
        structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and

(b) Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
        legal proceeding against the customer.

The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Invoices which are past due 90 days will be considered as credit impaired.

Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.

Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.

                                                            Group                         Company

		 Gross			Gross

		 carrying                                                 Loss      Net carrying        Loss        Net

                           Note amount allowance balance amount allowance balance

		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Not past due		                     379,834                  (353) 379,481      99,551     (297) 99,254
                                        701                                            -
More than 90 days

past due                   25.4.1                                  -  701                          -  -

		 380,535                                                  (353) 380,182 99,551          (297) 99,254

Credit impaired

More than 90

days past due		                                      4,685    (392)   4,293      203      (70)        133
                                                            (1,934)         -  1,220
Individually

impaired		 1,934                                                                          (1,220)     -

		387,154                                                   (2,679) 384,475 100,974       (1,587) 99,387

174 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

                                     Group                        Company

		 Gross			Gross

		 carrying                          Loss      Net carrying       Loss         Net

		 amount allowance balance amount allowance balance

		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2022                        427,407  (337) 427,070 104,499        (255) 104,244
Not past due		

Credit impaired                      (369) 1,278            903   (341)        562
More than 90 days
                                     (649)               -  144   (144)        -
 past due		1,647
Individually impaired		 649

		 429,703                           (1,355) 428,348 105,546      (740) 104,806

25.4.1 More than 90 days past due

Subsequent payment for trade receivables which were more than 90 days past due was
received in January 2024.

The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.

                                     Group                        Company

                            Trade receivables               Trade receivables

                           Lifetime Credit		                Lifetime Credit

                            ECL impaired       Total        ECL impaired       Total

                           RM’000 RM’000 RM’000             RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2022           517      2,366     2,883        302   316          618
Amounts written off             -        (34)      (34)
Net remeasurement                                           -     (34)         (34)
                            (180)    (1,314)   (1,494)
 of loss allowance                                          (47)  203          156

At 31 December 2022/        337      1,018 1,355            255   485          740
 1 January 2023
                            -        (29)      (29)         -     (26)         (26)
Amounts written off
Net remeasurement           16       1,341 1,357            42    831          873

 of loss allowance          -        (4)       (4)          -     -            -
Foreign exchange rate

At 31 December 2023         353      2,326 2,679            297   1,290 1,587

As at 31 December 2023, RM29,000 (2022: RM34,000) and RM26,000 (2022: RM34,000) of trade
receivables for the Group and for the Company, respectively, were written off but they are still
subject to enforcement activities.

                                       175 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Notes to the
    Financial Statements (cont’d)

       25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

                  25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

                           Other receivables

                           In the previous financial year, credit risk on other receivables mainly arose from contingent
                           consideration receivable from a joint venturer which was subject to the achievability of certain
                           financial targets.

                           During the financial year, the Group and the Company recognised a loss on remeasurement
                           contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 (2022: write back on remeasurement of
                           contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000).

                           In the current year, credit risk on other receivables are mainly arising from advances paid to
                           suppliers and interest receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks. At the balance sheet
                           date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is presented by their carrying amounts in the balance
                           sheets.

                           Fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents

                           The fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. At
                           the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
                           amounts in the balance sheets.

                           These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
                           Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.

                           Financial guarantees to banks

                           Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                           The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
                           financing facilities granted to its joint venturer, BFMI. The Company monitors on an ongoing
                           basis the results of the joint venturer and repayments made by the joint venturer.

                           Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                           The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD15.0 million
                           (2022: USD15.0 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venturer.

                           As at 31 December 2023, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD3.6 million
                           (2022: USD7.6 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
                           venturer at the balance sheet date.

                           Financial guarantee to joint venturer

                           Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                           At the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venturer would default on
                           repayment. The Company is of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is
                           not provided for.

                           The Company provides bank guarantee to its joint venturer pursuant to the disposal of 49%
                           equity interest in DTSB amounting to RM13,741,947 (2022: RM13,741,947) in respect of the
                           post-completion adjustment, breach of warranties and profit guarantee as stipulated in the share
                           purchase agreement entered with the joint venturer.

176 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Intercompany advances

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
results of the subsidiaries regularly.

Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheet.

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:

• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for
subsidiaries’ advances as at 31 December.

			                                                     Gross     Impairment
                                                                            loss
			carrying                                                                             Net
                                                                   allowance      balance
Company			 amount                                                      RM’000     RM’000

			 RM’000

2023                                                    82,258                -   82,258
Low credit risk			                                          710           (710)           -
Credit impaired			

			 82,968                                                                (710)   82,258

2022                                                    116,477               -   116,477
Low credit risk			                                           710          (710)            -
Credit impaired			

			 117,187                                                               (710)   116,477

                                                        177 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Intercompany advances (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of subsidiaries’ advances during the
year is as follows:

Company					 Lifetime ECL
					RM’000

At 1 January 2022					                                                                         907
Derecognition upon liquidation of subsidiaries				                                             (197)

At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023/31 December 2023			                                         710

25.5 Interest rate risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.

Exposure to interest rate risk

The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts at the balance sheet date are as follows:

                                                                Group              Company

                           Note                      2023              2022        2023        2022

		 RM’000                                                              RM’000      RM’000      RM’000

Fixed rate instruments

Amounts due from

subsidiaries                    11                   -                          -  82,258      116,477
                                                                       157,219             -            -
Fixed deposits                  13                   332,717
                                                                        30,033     13,644           434
Deposits placed with

licensed banks                  14                   25,763

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits               17                   (842,618)  (934,439)          (358,483)   (534,037)
                                                                 (13,423)           (10,694)    (12,303)
Lease liabilities		 (11,496)                                       (7,152)            (2,702)     (7,152)
                                                                          -             (265)       (365)
RCULS - Liabilities             16                   (2,702)

Amounts due to subsidiaries 18.1                     -

		 (498,336)                                                    (767,762)          (276,242)   (436,946)

Floating rate

instruments

Unsecured term loans            17                   (143,064)  (171,253)          (85,000)    (119,000)

178 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)

Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments

The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would not affect the
income statements.

Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments

A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would
have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis
assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remained constant.

                                                              Profit or loss

		                                       50 bp                50 bp  50 bp                50 bp
                                                                                     decrease
		 increase                                     decrease             increase
                                                                                           2022
		 2023                                                       2023            2022     RM’000

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000   RM’000

Group

Floating rate instruments		              (544)                544             (651)  651

Company

Floating rate instruments		              (323)                323             (452)  452

25.6 Foreign currency risk

        The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
        borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
        of the Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar
        (“USD”) and Euro Dollar (“EUR”).

        Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

        The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
        where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
        to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.

                                                179 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the balance sheet
date was:

                                                           Denominated in

Group                                                Note  USD        EUR

		 RM’000                                                             RM’000

2023

Balances recognised in the balance sheet             17    (9,180)    (20,784)
Unsecured term loans
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/                      17    (182,797)       -

 Unsecured revolving credits

		 (191,977)                                                          (20,784)

Forecast transactions

Forecast purchases		                                       (86,280)        -

Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		          84,920          -

                                                     18    (1,360)         -

Net exposure		 (193,337)                                              (20,784)

2022

Balances recognised in the balance sheet             17    (5,382)    (7,611)
Unsecured term loans                                                    (239)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/                      17    (398,733)

 Unsecured revolving credits

		 (404,115)                                                          (7,850)

Forecast transactions

Forecast purchases		                                       (502,776)       -

Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		          492,905         -

                                                     18    (9,871)         -

Net exposure		 (413,986)                                              (7,850)

180 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)

                                                   Denominated in USD

Company                                     Note   2023      2022

		 RM’000                                                    RM’000

Balance recognised in the balance sheet     17     (73,144)  (189,140)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/

 Unsecured revolving credits

Forecast transactions                              (76,231)  (342,608)
Forecast purchases		                               74,966    336,555
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		

                                            18     (1,265)   (6,053)

Net exposure		 (74,409)                                      (195,193)

Currency risk sensitivity analysis

A 5% (2022: 5%) strengthening/(weakening) of RM against the following currencies at the
balance sheet date would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts
shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained
constant.

		                                                 Profit or loss

                                                   2023      2022

                                                   RM’000    RM’000

Group                                              4,068     3,374
USD                                                  790       298
EUR

Company                                            69        5,602
USD

25.7 Liquidity risk

        Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its financial
        obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises
        principally from its various payables, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities.

        The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
        bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
        have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.

        It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
        earlier, or at significantly different amounts.

                                            181 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments.

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Group                  amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000                        % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               108,767                                    -  108,767 108,767  -  -           -

Unsecured bankers’                                   2.00 - 7.12
                                                     5.28 - 7.97
acceptances/                                         3.50 - 8.50

Unsecured                                                         -
                                                                  -
revolving credits 842,618                                            851,544 851,544  -  -           -

Unsecured term

loans                  143,064                                       152,076   79,705 49,162 23,209        -
                                                                      12,993                         3,613
Lease liabilities      11,496                                           2,702  2,061 2,132 5,187
                                                                                                           -
RCULS liabilities             2,702                                            2,702  -  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                                      30,266 30,266    -  -           -

Derivative financial          1,360                  -               86,280 86,280    -  -           -
 liabilities                        -
                                                     - (84,920) (84,920)              -  -           -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

                       1,110,007		 1,159,708 1,076,405 51,294 28,396 3,613

182 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Group                  amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000          % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2022

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               115,389                      -  115,389 115,389  -     -        -

Unsecured bankers’                     2.78 - 8.00
                                       4.03 - 6.40
acceptances/                           3.50 - 8.50

Unsecured                                      5.10
                                                    -
revolving credits 934,439                              947,226 947,226  -     -        -

Unsecured term

loans                  171,253                         179,840   57,797 51,341 70,702        -
                                                        15,346                         5,009
Lease liabilities      13,423                             8,205  2,525 1,984 5,828
                                                                                             -
RCULS liabilities             7,152                              5,470 2,735  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                        47,106 47,106    -     -        -

Derivative financial          9,871    - 502,776 502,776                -     -        -
 liabilities                        -
                                       - (492,905) (492,905)            -     -        -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option

contracts

(gross settled):

Outflow                       44       -               -         -      -     -        -

Inflow                        -        -               44        44     -     -        -

                       1,251,571		 1,323,027 1,185,428 56,060 76,530 5,009

                                                       183 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Company                amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000                        % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               49,045                                     -  49,045 49,045    -  -         -
                                                             5.50
Amounts due to
                                                     3.70 - 7.12
subsidiaries                  265                            5.28    280     280      -  -         -

Unsecured bankers’                                   3.50 - 5.00
                                                                  -
acceptances/                                                      -

Unsecured

revolving credits 358,483                                            363,478 363,478  -  -         -

Unsecured term

loans                  85,000                                        91,181  37,825 36,019 17,337        -
                                                                     12,074                        3,613
Lease liabilities      10,694                                                1,656 1,792 5,013
                                                                      2,702                              -
RCULS liabilities             2,702                                          2,702    -  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                                      30,266 30,266    -  -         -

Derivative financial          1,265                  -               76,231 76,231    -  -         -
 liabilities                        -
                                                     - (74,966) (74,966)              -  -         -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

                       507,454		 550,291 486,517 37,811 22,350 3,613

184 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Company                amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000          % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2022

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               44,679                       -  44,679 44,679    -     -        -
                                               4.00
Amounts due to
                                       2.78 - 6.20
subsidiaries                  365              4.67    380       380    -     -        -

Unsecured bankers’                     3.50 - 5.00
                                               5.10
acceptances/                                        -

Unsecured

revolving credits 534,037                              540,018 540,018  -     -        -

Unsecured term

loans                  119,000                         129,428   38,961 37,383 53,084        -
                                                        14,084                         5,283
Lease liabilities      12,303                             8,205  2,144 1,582 5,075
                                                                                             -
RCULS liabilities             7,152                              5,470 2,735  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                        47,106 47,106    -     -        -

Derivative financial          6,053    - 342,608 342,608                -     -        -
 liabilities                        -
                                       - (336,555) (336,555)            -     -        -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option

contracts

(gross settled):

Outflow                       44       -               -         -      -     -        -

Inflow                        -        -               44        44     -     -        -

                       723,633		 789,997 684,855 41,700 58,159 5,283

                                                       185 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.8 Fair value information

The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and
payables and short-term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively
short-term nature of these financial instruments.

The tables below analyses other financial instruments at fair value.

					Not

                                                     Carried at			 carried at

                                                     fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying

Group                        Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount

                       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023                         291                     -  -  291          -      291   291
Financial assets
Future and option

 contracts

Financial liabilities        - (1,360)                  - (1,360)       - (1,360) (1,360)
Foreign currency
                             -                       -  -  - (72,060) (72,060) (72,060)
 forward contracts
Unsecured term

 loans (non-current)

                             - (1,360)                  - (1,360) (72,060) (73,420) (73,420)

2022                         -                       - 191,036 191,036  - 191,036 191,036
Financial assets
Contingent                   13                      -  -  13           -      13    13

 consideration
 receivable
Future and option
 contracts

                             13                      - 191,036 191,049  - 191,049 191,049

Financial liabilities        - (9,871)                  - (9,871)       - (9,871) (9,871)
Foreign currency
                             (44)                    -  -  (44)         -      (44)  (44)
 forward contracts
Future and option            -                       -  -  - (120,711) (120,711) (120,711)

 contracts
Unsecured term

 loans (non-current)

                             (44) (9,871)               - (9,915) (120,711) (130,626) (130,626)

186 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)

					Not

                                      Carried at			 carried at

                                      fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying

Company                Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount

                       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023                   98             -  -  98           -      98    98
Financial assets
Future and option

 contracts

Financial liabilities  - (1,265)         - (1,265)       - (1,265) (1,265)
Foreign currency
                       -              -  -  - (51,000) (51,000) (51,000)
 forward contracts
Unsecured term

 loans (non-current)

                       - (1,265)         - (1,265) (51,000) (52,265) (52,265)

2022                   -              - 191,036 191,036  - 191,036 191,036
Financial assets
Contingent

 consideration
 receivable

Financial liabilities  - (6,053)         - (6,053)       - (6,053) (6,053)
Foreign currency
                       (44)           -  -  (44)         -      (44)  (44)
 forward contracts
Future and option      -              -  -  - (85,000) (85,000) (85,000)

 contracts
Unsecured term

 loans (non-current)

                       (44) (6,053)      - (6,097) (85,000) (91,097) (91,097)

Level 2 fair value

Derivatives

The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).

                                            187 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)

                 Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

                 There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
                 (2022: no transfer in either direction).

                 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value

                 Level 3 fair value

                 Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long-term term loans where their fair values
                 approximate their carrying amounts. The fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows
                 using a rate based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at
                 the reporting date.

26. Capital management

The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2023 and at 31 December 2022 were as follows:

                                                           Group

                                                     Note  2023                               2022

		 RM’000                                                                               RM’000

Total borrowings                                     17    985,682    1,105,692
                                                             11,496       13,423
Lease liabilities		
                                                           (332,717)   (157,219)
Less:                                                       (87,350)     (86,710)

Fixed deposits                                       13

Cash and cash equivalents                            14

Net debt		                                                 577,111                      875,186

Total equity		                                             1,445,981 1,466,093

Debt-to-equity ratio		                                     0.40                               0.60

There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

188 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
27. Capital commitments

                                                   Group            Company

		 2023                                                   2022      2023       2022

		 RM’000                                                 RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Property, plant and equipment           46,072            22,419    32,736     943
Contracted but not provided for		

Joint ventures                          12,630            24,467    -          -
Share of capital commitment of the

 joint ventures

28. Related parties

Significant related party transactions

Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below.
The balances related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 11 and 18.

                                                   Group            Company

		 2023                                                   2022      2023       2022

			 RM’000                                                RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

A. Subsidiaries

Sales of goods		                        -                 -         11,545     10,970

Purchases of goods		                    -                 -         -          (407)

Dividend income		                       -                 -         25,347     112,292

Consultancy fees income		               -                 -         1,386      1,324

Management fees income		                -                 -         521        540

Management Information System

fees income		 -                                           -         232        356

Rental of premises		                    -                 -         42         2

Rental of furniture and fittings		      -                 -         42         42

Rental of equipment		                   -                 -         1,667      2,430

Interest income		                       -                 -         2,445      1,170

Interest expense		                      -                 -         (131)      (1,651)

B. Joint ventures

Sales of goods		                        90,790            70,023    35,037     29,815
                                                          (91,627)          -          -
Purchases of goods		                    (115,089)         10,094
                                                                    11,684     10,094
Management fees income		                11,684              5,552
                                                              242    4,538      5,552
Management Information System                                 111       451        242
                                                                        111        111
fees income		 4,538                                         4,387
                                                                11   3,770      4,387
Rental of premises		                    451                             944         11

Rental of furniture and fittings		      111

Rental of equipment		                   3,770

Interest income		                       944

                                                   189 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

28. Related parties (cont’d)

Significant related party transactions (cont’d)

                                                     Group          Company

		 2023                                                     2022    2023     2022

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

C. Key management personnel                                   960     924      960
        Directors of the Company:                           9,419   8,242    8,906
        - Fees		 924
        - Remuneration		 8,614                                  93      92       93
        - Other short-term employee                                 9,258    9,959
            benefits (including estimated
            monetary value of benefits-                                   -        -
            in-kind)		 92

		 9,630                                                    10,472

Directors of the Group entities:

- Remuneration		621                                         685

- Other short-term employee

benefits (including estimated

monetary value of benefits-

in-kind)		143                                               130           -        -
                                                                          -        -
		764                                                       815
                                                                    9,258    9,959
Total short-term employee                                   11,287
 benefits		10,394

190 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement by Directors

pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 190 are drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a
true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2023 and of
their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:

Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director

Teh Wee Chye
Director
4 April 2024

                                                191 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statutory Declaration

       pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016

         I, Yau Tee Peng, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
         do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 190 are, to the
         best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
         declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
         Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Yau Tee Peng, MIA CA15344, at Kuala Lumpur in the
         Federal Territory on 4 April 2024.

         Yau Tee Peng
         Before me:
         Dr. T. Yokheswarem (W540)
         Commissioner for Oaths
         Kuala Lumpur

192 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Independent Auditors’ Report

to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
as at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of
the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
policy information, as set out on pages 120 to 190.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of
the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash
flows for the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting
Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

(i) Valuation of investment in a joint venture

     Refer to Note 1(d) – Use of estimates and judgements and Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures.

     The key audit matter

     As at 31 December 2023, the net assets of a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia, of
     RM153,413,000 was lower than the Company’s initial cost of investment. Hence, there was an indication
     of impairment which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investment in the
     joint venture.

                                                193 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Independent Auditors’ Report

       to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)

        Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
        (i) Valuation of investment in a joint venture (cont’d)

               The key audit matter (cont’d)

               We identified the valuation of investment in a joint venture as a key audit matter because of its significance
               to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the key impairment
               assumptions involves significant judgement which requires significant involvement of our more experienced
               audit engagement team members.
               How the matter was addressed in our audit
               We performed the following audit procedures, among others:

               • We assessed the Group’s and the Company’s assessment on indicators of impairment in investment
                    in a joint venture;

               • We compared the joint venture’s cash flow projections to its approved business plan and previous
                    cash flow projections to actual results to assess the reliability of the Group’s forecasting process;

               • We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the cash flow
                    projections by comparing them to externally derived data as well as our own assessments which
                    takes into account historical trends and other corroborative evidence available;

               • We assessed whether the Group and the Company had adequately provided impairment on the
                    investment in a joint venture; and

               • We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.

        (ii) Valuation of contingent consideration receivable

               Refer to Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures and Note 11 – Trade and other receivables, including
               derivatives.

               The key audit matter

               On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn.
               Bhd. for a total cash consideration of RM445,028,000, with a final contingent consideration due in 2024
               based on the financial targets as at 31 December 2023.

               As at 31 December 2023, management assessed the final contingent consideration and has recognised a
               loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 in the income statements.

               We identified the valuation of contingent consideration receivable as a key audit matter because of its
               significance to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the
               calculation of the contingent consideration requires significant involvement of our more experienced audit
               engagement team members.

194 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)

(ii) Valuation of contingent consideration receivable (cont’d)

     How the matter was addressed in our audit

     We performed the following audit procedures, among others:

     • We read the relevant agreements to determine the significant terms and conditions factored in the
          computation of the Group’s contingent consideration receivable;

     • We assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s computation in measuring the contingent
          consideration receivable; and

     • We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are
also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

                                                195 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Independent Auditors’ Report

       to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)

        Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

         Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
         of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
         an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
         a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
         International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
         can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
         reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
         statements.

         As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
         on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
         We also:

         • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
               Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
               and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
               not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
               fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
               control.

         • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
               are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
               of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.

         • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
               and related disclosures made by the Directors.

         • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
               on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
               may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
               we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
               the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
               are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
               to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
               Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

         • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
               the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
               Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.

         • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
               business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
               We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
               responsible for our audit opinion.

         We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
         audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
         during our audit.

196 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats
or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.

KPMG PLT                  Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758  Approval Number: 02782/09/2024 J
Chartered Accountants     Chartered Accountant

Petaling Jaya
4 April 2024

                          197 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 29 March 2024

Share Capital                          - RM651,092,240.51

Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,239,154,165 ordinary shares

13,656 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share

Size of Holdings                                              No. of               % of              No. of    % of
Less than 100                                        Shareholders       Shareholders      Issued Shares      Issued
100 to 1,000                                                                                                 Shares
1,001 to 10,000                                                1,599              11.71             18,893
10,001 to 100,000                                              1,477              10.81           871,912       0.00
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                       5,880              43.06       32,029,678        0.07
5% and above of issued shares                                  3,993              29.24     130,509,725         2.59
                                                                                            826,350,857       10.53
                                                                 704                5.16    249,373,100       66.69
                                                                     3              0.02                      20.12
                                                                                          1,239,154,165
                                                             13,656             100.00                       100.00

Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                                          No. of Shares      Percentage
1. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd		                                                     91,058,005      Holding (%)

      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                                                                    7.35
2. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd		
                                                                                          81,052,695         6.54
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
3. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd		                                                        77,262,400         6.24

      [Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]                                     60,561,922         4.89
4. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd
5. Astar Commercial Limited                                                               53,583,750         4.32
6. Azlin binti Arshad
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                                  42,513,570         3.43

      (Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)                           39,381,435         3.18
8. Duangmanee Liewphairatana
9. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                 33,380,875         2.69

      (Pledged Securities Account for Zalaraz Sdn Bhd)                                    31,339,800         2.53
10. Yong Kok Yian
11. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd                                                                  31,034,372         2.50
12. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
                                                                                          30,847,500         2.49
      (Exempt An for Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. Ltd)
13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                             30,269,600         2.44

      (Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)                               25,129,449         2.03
14. Azlin binti Arshad
                                                                                          24,806,750         2.00

198 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                            No. of Shares  Percentage
15. Teh Wee Chye                                                               19,158,376  Holding (%)
                                                                               15,425,197
16. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                                            1.55
      (Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
                                                                                                     1.25
17. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      [Employees Provident Fund Board (Pheim)]                              11,490,400         0.93

18. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                   11,018,291         0.89
      (Urusharta Jamaah Sdn Bhd)
                                                                            10,379,230         0.84
19. CIMB Islamic Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (MIDF Amanah Asset Management Berhad for Perbadanan		                 9,594,000          0.77
      Pembangunan Pertanian Negeri Perak)		
                                                                            9,540,000          0.77
20. Teoh Guan Kok & Co Sdn Berhad
                                                                            8,037,000          0.65
21. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)              7,741,500          0.63

22. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                     7,328,158          0.59
      (Pledged Securities Account for Chung Keat Ann)
                                                                            7,000,000          0.57
23. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Teh Wee Chye)                                                        6,508,900          0.53

24. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd                                                    6,391,400          0.52

25. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin                                           5,400,200          0.44

26. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad                       5,122,200          0.41
      [Lembaga Tabung Haji (Al-Wara’)]
                                                                            5,000,000          0.40
27. Maybank Investment Bank Berhad
      [IVT (9) ECD SW-H]

28. Su Ming Keat

29. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
      (Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Eastspring Investments
      Small-Cap Fund)

30. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Toh Hooi Hak)

Substantial Shareholders    Direct Interest                                 Indirect Interest

 Name                       No. of Shares                            %      No. of Shares      %
 Teh Wee Chye
 Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd     199,083,701                              16.07  87,273,490(1)      7.04
 Duangmanee Liewphairatana
 Azlin binti Arshad         60,561,922                               4.89   1,519,119(2)       0.12

                            33,380,875                               2.69   62,081,041(3)      5.01

                            67,320,320                               5.43   31,339,800(4)      2.53

                                           199 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 29 March 2024 (cont’d)

Directors' Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations

                                                     Direct Interest         Indirect Interest

Name                                                 No. of Shares    %      No. of Shares      %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye                                         27,087           0.00   -                  -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                              199,083,701      16.07  87,273,490(1)      7.04
Azhari Arshad
Lim Pang Boon                                        11,250           0.00   -                  -
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
                                                     9,652,500        0.78   -                  -

                                                     600,000          0.05   31,339,800(4)      2.53

                                                     620,825          0.05   -                  -

                                                     -                -      34,000(5)          0.00

Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.

Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber

      Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholding of his spouse.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai

      Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(4) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(5) Deemed interested through shareholding of her child.

200 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties

Description, Location & Size             Existing Use    Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                                Shoplot           Age of            of last     Value At
Freehold land with shop houses                                                                 31-12-23
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4                                  Building    Revaluation/                RM
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4                                      (Year)    Acquisition
Town of Butterworth                                                                           2,795,000
District of Seberang Perai Utara                         63 9 Sept 1996
Penang                                                                                        1,558,000
Total: 1.44 acres                        Commercial      84 4 Dec 1996
                                             land and                                             72,000
Freehold land with residential building       building   -                 1981
GRN 29231                                                                                    16,623,000
Lot 449 Section 67                       Vacant land
District of Kuala Lumpur                                                                         131,000
Federal Territory                        Office and      41-57 6 Oct 1998
Total: 1.00 acre                             factory                                         46,280,000

Freehold land                            Shoplot         44                1991
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of
Lots 5331 & 5332                         Office and      31 3 Feb 1995
District of Dindings                         factory
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres

Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim of Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres

Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim of Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre

Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres

                                                         201 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties (cont’d)

Description, Location & Size                         Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year      Net Book
                                                                            Age of            of last   Value At
Leasehold land with building                                                                           31-12-23
PN 25155 Lot 7114                                                        Building    Revaluation/              RM
(expiring on 22-7-2096)                                                      (Year)    Acquisition
Mukim of Batu Berendam                                                                                   298,000
District of Melaka Tengah                            Shoplot       26                1997
Melaka Darul Azim
Total: 0.13 acre                                     Factory       24                1999              378,000

Freehold land with building                          Vacant land   -                 2011 2,576,000
HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284
Bandar Johor Bahru                                   Factory       11                2020 92,881,000
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim                                   Residential   32                2017              136,000
Total: 0.13 acre                                           house

Leasehold land                                       Vacant land   -                 1997              271,000
HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638
(expiring on 2-4-2072)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 4.57 acres

Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 30844 PT 13524
(expiring on 20-10-2075)
Mukim of Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 23 acres

Freehold land with house
GRN 160946 Lot 45520
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre

Freehold land
Grant 1784, Lot 12653
Mukim of Sitiawan
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres

202 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size       Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year      Net Book
                                                          Age of            of last   Value At
Freehold land                                                                        31-12-23
GM 10137, Lot 23464                                    Building    Revaluation/              RM
Mukim of Bagan Serai                                       (Year)    Acquisition
District of Kerian                                                                              1
Perak Darul Ridzuan                Vacant land   -                 1990
Total: 2.12 acres
                                   Office and    26                1994 54,076,000
Land Use Rights with buildings         factory
(expiring on 31-8-2024)                          21                2000 15,245,000
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province       Office and
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam      factory
Total: 17.30 acres

Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)
Phu My Industrial Zone I
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres

                                                 203 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of
Annual General Meeting

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-Fourth Annual General Meeting (“64th AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be conducted on a virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara
Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 16 May 2024 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:-

Ordinary Business

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
      31 December 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
      thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].

2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
      Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
      themselves for re-election:

(i) Mr Quah Poh Keat                                                                            (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris                                             (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Lim Pang Boon                                                                          (Ordinary Resolution 3)

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per                         (Ordinary Resolution 4)
      annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per annum for
      each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended
      31 December 2023.

4. To approve an amount of up to RM350,000 as benefits payable to the                           (Ordinary Resolution 5)
      Non-Executive Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 64th AGM
      until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the                             (Ordinary Resolution 6)
      financial year ending 31 December 2024 and to authorise the Directors to
      fix their remuneration.

Special Business

To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-

6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
      75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

                “THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant
                authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
                given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
                2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
                terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
                absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
                issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
                of issued shares of the Company for the time being (“General Mandate”)
                and that the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
                for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa
                Malaysia Securities Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force
                until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.

204 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with
the Company’s Constitution, approval be given to waive the statutory pre-
emptive rights conferred upon the shareholders of the Company AND THAT
the Board is exempted from the obligation to offer such new shares first to
the existing shareholders of the Company in respect of the allotment and
issuance of new shares pursuant to the General Mandate.

AND FURTHER THAT the new shares to be issued pursuant to the General           (Ordinary Resolution 7)
Mandate, shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in all respects
with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms
of distribution that which may be declared, made or paid before the date of
allotment of such new shares.”

7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;

THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -

(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
    the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
    it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
    authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or

(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
    after that date is required by law to be held; or

(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
    general meeting,

whichever occurs first;

                                                     205 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of
Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally          (Ordinary Resolution 8)
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”

8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
      accordance with the Companies Act 2016.

By Order of the Board

Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary

Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2024

206 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes:-

1. The 64th AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation
       and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at
       https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.

2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
       remotely via the RPEV facilities.

3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
       requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in
       person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.

4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to
       vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to
       be represented by each proxy.

6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
       1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
       with ordinary shares of the Company.

7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
       owners in 1 securities account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
       the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of
       the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
       Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at
       https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment
       thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Proxy
       Form in place of the original signed copy for the hardcopy submission.

10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 64th AGM, the Company shall be requesting
       Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
       Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2024. Only a depositor whose name
       appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and
       vote on his/her behalf.

11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Bursa Securities Listing
       Requirements”), all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 64th AGM will be put to vote on a poll.

Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business

Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements

This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.

Ordinary Resolutions 1, 2, and 3: Re-election of Directors

Mr Quah Poh Keat, Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon are standing for re-election as Directors of the
Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 64th AGM.

The Board had through the Nomination Committee carried out assessment on the Directors who are standing for re-election and satisfied
that they met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements on character, experience,
integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their role as Directors.

Ordinary Resolutions 4 and 5: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits

Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any benefits payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.

In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Non-Executive Directors at the 64th
AGM:-

Resolution 4: Payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per
annum for each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023; and

                                                207 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Notice of
    Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

            Resolution 5: Payment of benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee
            and Board of Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 64th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the
            Company.
            The benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors comprise Board Committees’ fixed allowance, meeting allowances and benefits-in-
            kind. In determining the estimated total amount of the benefits payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number
            of scheduled and special meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Non-Executive Directors involved in
            these meetings.
            Resolutions 4 and 5, if passed, will facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits as and when required. The Board is of the view
            that the Non-Executive Directors should be paid such fees and benefits upon them discharging their responsibilities and rendering their
            services to the Company.
            Ordinary Resolution 6: Re-appointment of Auditors
            The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board had, on 4 April 2024, considered the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT
            as Auditors of the Company. The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board collectively agreed and are satisfied that Messrs
            KPMG PLT meets the relevant criteria prescribed by Paragraph 15.21 of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements.

            Explanatory Notes on Special Business
            Ordinary Resolution 7: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
            The proposed Resolution 7 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
            empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
            Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
            of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
            in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
            The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
            placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
            acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
            consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
            As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
            63rd AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2023.
            Ordinary Resolution 8: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
            The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
            total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained profits of the Company. This authority,
            unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

            Personal Data Privacy
            By registering for the meeting via remote participation and electronic voting and/or submitting an instrument appointing proxy(ies) and/
            or representatives to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company: (i) consents
            to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents): (a) for processing and administration of proxies and
            representatives appointed for the meeting; (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents
            relating to the meeting (which includes any adjournments thereof); and (c) for the Company’s (or its agents) compliance with any applicable
            laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively the Purpose); (ii) warrants that he/she has obtained such proxy(ies)’ and/or
            representative(s)’ prior consent for the Company’s (or its agents’) processing of such proxy(ies)’ and/or representative(s)’ personal data
            for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company for any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and
            damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
            Note: The term “processing” and “personal data” shall have the meaning as defined in the Personal Data Protection Act, 2010.

208 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement Accompanying Notice
of Annual General Meeting

Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the Company from time to
time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working
capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity deal which requires the
Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors consider it to be in
the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 63rd AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2023.

                                                209 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
This page is intentionally left blank.
   PROXY FORM                MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD                              No. of Shares Held

                                  Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
                                            (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                                                                   CDS Account No.

   I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No._________________

   			       (full name in block letters)

   of_______________________________________________________________________________________________

   					     (full address)

   being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-

             Full Name (In Block)                       NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding

                                                                                    No. of Shares  %

   Address

   * and/or  Full Name (In Block)                       NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
    Address
                                                                                    No. of Shares  %

   or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our
   behalf at the Sixty-Fourth Annual General Meeting (“64th AGM”) of the Company which will be conducted on
   a virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450
   Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 16 May 2024 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.

   My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
   (Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
   will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).

   No.                                     Resolutions                               For           Against

        Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance

        with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-

   1. a. Mr Quah Poh Keat
   2. b. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris
   3. c. Mr Lim Pang Boon
   4. Payment of Directors’ fees

   5. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors

   6. Re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company

   7. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and
         76 of the Companies Act 2016

   8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

   * Strike out whichever not applicable

!  Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2024

                                                                                              ____________________________________
                                                                                               Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder

   Notes:-
   1. The 64th AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”)

         facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.

   2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPEV facilities.

   3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman of
         the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the
         meeting.

   4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to vote in his/her stead. A
         proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

   5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each
         proxy.

   6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least
         1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.

   7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in 1 securities
         account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

   8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
         corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

   9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of the Company’s Share
         Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
         Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than 48 hours before
         the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not
         accept any photocopies of the Proxy Form in place of the original signed copy for the hardcopy submission.

   10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 64th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository
         Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to
         issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2024. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and
         vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.

   11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 64th AGM
         will be put to vote on a poll.
Fold this flap for sealing

1st fold here

                                                   AFFIX
                                                   STAMP
                                                   HERE

               Share Registrar

               BOARDROOM SHARE Registrars SDN BHD

               11th Floor, Menara Symphony
               No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
               Seksyen 13
               46200 Petaling Jaya
               Selangor Darul Ehsan

2nd fold here
