                                                         GROUP FINANCIAL
                                                                   HIGHLIGHTS

                                                             2016      2017       2018   2019                                                     2020
                                                         RM’000    RM’000     RM’000
                                                                                         RM’000 RM’000

Revenue                                                  2,538,686 2,402,283 2,423,774 2,681,563 2,680,670
Profit before tax
Tax expense                                              111,319   96,493     39,933     78,295                                                   36,027
Profit for the year
Minority interests                                       (18,359) (24,530) (12,467) (17,693) (15,443)
Profit attributable to equity
                                                         92,960    71,963     27,466     60,602                                                   20,584
 holders of the Company
Issued share capital (RM’000)                            (12,125)  (3,395)    (9,690) (17,351) (15,171)
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000)
Net assets per share (sen) *                              80,835    68,568     17,776    43,251                                                   5,413
Basic earnings per share (sen) **                        275,120   377,501    377,501
Gross dividends (%)                                      833,105   834,616    819,950    527,571 530,665
* Based on number of shares (’000)
** Based on weighted average                                  151       152        149   1,094,312 1,070,859
                                                            14.69     12.46        3.23
  number of shares (’000)                                   13.00                  5.50  109                                                      106
                                                         550,239        9.50  550,285
Note:                                                              550,285               4.51a                                                    0.54a

a. As disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.                                  5.72                                                     3.43

                                                                                         1,004,095 1,010,282

                                                         550,239 550,270 550,285 958,710 1,007,587

Revenue                                                                       Shareholders’ Fund

(RM’Million)                                                                          (RM’ Million)

2,539
          2,402
                     2,424

                               2,682
                                          2,681
                                                                                                833
                                                                                                           835
                                                                                                                      820

                                                                                                                                1,094
                                                                                                                                           1,071

2016 2017 2018 2019 2020                                                     2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

Basic Earnings Per Share                                                            Proﬁt Before Tax

                    (Sen)                                                                   (RM’ Million)

14.69
          12.46
                     3.23
                               4.51
                                          0.54

                                                                                                 111
                                                                                                           96
                                                                                                                      40
                                                                                                                                 78
                                                                                                                                            36

2016 2017 2018 2019 2020                                                     2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

                                                                                 55 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Corporate Governance
     Overview Statement

         The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
         good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company and
         its subsidiaries (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and enhance long-term
         shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account the interest of all
         stakeholders.
         The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
         transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
         with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
         increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
         The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG 2017”) in
         its implementation of corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia
         Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016,
         the Board always keep abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other
         relevant regulations to uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
         This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
         financial year ended 31 December 2020 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
         Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
         discloses the Company’s application of each recommended practice in the MCCG 2017.
         This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
         principles of the MCCG 2017 as follows:
         A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
         B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
         C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders

      PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

       I. Board Responsibilities

              Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
              The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
              of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
              Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
              direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
              succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
              and various stakeholders.
              Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
              • Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
              • Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly

                   managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
              • Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
              • Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate

                   internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks

56 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• Review the adequacy of the internal control systems

• Review succession and human resource plans

• Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
     and significant capital expenditure

The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Managing Director who further
cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Managing Director and management team
remain accountable to the Board for the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the operational
progress and financial results on a quarterly basis.

Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:

• Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group

• Declaration of dividends

• Approval of annual budget

• Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff

• Proposed corporate exercise

• Borrowings from financial institutions

• Acquisition and disposal of assets

• New investments such as joint venture

As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment of
Director and key management positions. The Managing Director updates the Board annually and from time
to time on the details of the programmes for management development such as coaching, leadership and
technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration of the Directors and key Senior Management
to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently attractive to attract and retain the talents.

Separation of positions of the Chairman and Managing Director

The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Managing
Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered
powers of decision-making.

Tun Arshad bin Ayub, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Company.
He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board effectiveness and compliance with corporate
governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and general meetings to ensure that the meetings
are carried out smoothly according to their agenda. He is the father of Mr Azhari Arshad who is an
Executive Director.

Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Managing Director of the Company and leads the day-to-day management of
the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate business strategies and
plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and profitability to meet the
stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and decisions of the Board and
coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.

The Chairman and Managing Director have regular dialogues over all operational matters. Between Board
meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the Board and the Managing Director, expects
to be kept informed by the Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the Managing
Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.

                                                                        57 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

Board Meetings and Time Commitment

The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters, the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.

For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.

All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.

In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.

During the year under review, 8 Board meetings were held. The attendance of each Director at the Board
meetings is as follows:

Name of Directors                                    Meeting Attendance

Non-Independent

Tun Arshad bin Ayub                                  8/8

Teh Wee Chye                                         8/8

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                              8/8

Azhari Arshad                                        8/8

Lim Pang Boon                                        8/8

Independent

Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                  8/8

Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain            8/8

Quah Poh Keat                                        8/8

Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris  7/8

Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil                       8/8

All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.

The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year.

Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.

In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well
as monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in his other
directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.

58 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Access to Advice and Information

In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Committee
members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting in advance so
that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the meeting.

Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
issues that may be raised by Directors.

In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.

Qualified and Competent Company Secretary

In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who satisfied the qualification as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities.

The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
are made and properly kept.

The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
with the Listing Requirements.

The Company Secretary always keep abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.

Directors’ Continuing Development

The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.

From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
controls, corporate governance and finance.

In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.

The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.

                                                                        59 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Corporate Governance
     Overview Statement (cont’d)

              For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences,
              workshop and courses covering economy, company laws, taxation, risk management, capital markets
              and leadership of the following topics:

              • Companies Act 2016: Practical Guide for Company Directors
              • Fraud Risk Management workshop
              • Industry 4.0 and It’s Impact of Malaysian Capital Market
              • How The US-China Trade War Will Move Forward
              • A New Reality Webinar Series - Asia Pacific after COVID-19
              • Leadership Sharing
              • Tax Update on Budget Proposals

              Board Charter

              The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how
              the business is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate
              Governance. The Board Charter was last revised in 2020 to reflect the changes in the Terms of Reference
              of the Audit & Risk Management Committee. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website.

              Code of Conduct

              The Company’s Code of Conduct (“Code”) is in force across the Group and all employees must comply
              with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty for non-compliance with
              the Code. The Code sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all employees are expected to comply
              with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider
              community and the environment.

              Every employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s philosophy
              and core values. The following Code of Conduct must be adhered to at all times by all employees within
              the Group:

              a. Demonstrating commitment
              b. Living the core values of the Group
              c. Avoiding conflict of interest
              d. Preventing bribery and corruption
              e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
              f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
              g. Protecting company assets and resources
              h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
              i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
              j. Prohibiting insider trading

              The Code is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company.

              As personal commitment to the Code, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
              he/she has been furnished a copy of the Code, has read and understood the Code, accepted to comply
              with the Code and understood that any breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken
              against him/her. The Code is available on the Company’s website.

              Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment

              In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
              as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
              with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group
              has adopted a revised Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Policy and Guidelines”) on
              6 July 2020.

60 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     The Policy and Guidelines apply to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual
     employees, consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).

     The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Policy and Guidelines to avoid conflict of
     interest or the appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing
     between the Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s
     reputation or be in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.

     The Policy and Guidelines were published on the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing
     employees as well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email. All new recruits will also
     be briefed on the Policy and Guidelines during the orientation.

     The Policy and Guidelines are also published on the Company’s website.

     Whistle Blowing Policy

     The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
     & Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:

     a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;
     b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than

          overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
          legal standards; and
     c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
          regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
          appropriate actions.

     A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.

     All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud, misconduct
     or any integrity concerns to Datuk Oh Chong Peng, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the
     Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.

II. Board Composition

     Composition and Balance of the Board

     There are currently 10 Directors on the Board comprising 3 Executive Directors and a strong team of
     7 Non-Executive Directors of whom 5 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board
     provides for a diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations
     and decision-making.

     The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
     with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
     public services, education and legal.

     The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
     a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.

     The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender, age,
     cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business development
     and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge. Currently, the Board, which comprises
     amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity and age, had also achieved the gender diversity
     with 2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.

                                                                            61 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Corporate Governance
     Overview Statement (cont’d)

              As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
              appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
              to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 5 to 12 of this Annual
              Report.

              Appointment and Re-election of Directors

              The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. The Nomination Committee is
              responsible for making recommendation for any appointment to the Board by considering the mix of skills,
              knowledge, expertise and experience which the Director brings to the Board. Amongst the qualifications
              for membership of the Board are:

              • an appropriate knowledge, understanding or experience of the conduct of business;
              • the ability to see the wider picture and perspective, with some benefit of international experience;
              • the ability to make sensible and informed business decisions and recommendations;
              • high ethical standards and sound practical sense;
              • integrity in personal and business dealings; and
              • total commitment to furthering the interest of the shareholders and to achieve the Company’s goals.

              For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
              candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
              and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
              Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.

              The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
              General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.

              In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
              nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
              that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
              subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.

              A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
              his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
              and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.

              Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
              and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.

              Independence of Directors

              The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
              and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
              and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
              strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.

              Currently, the Board Charter provides that there shall be no fixed term of office for an Independent
              Director as the Board believes that continued contribution by long serving Directors provides more
              benefit to the Company and the Group as a whole. Their considerable knowledge of the Company’s
              culture and businesses would facilitate them to discharge their duties and role as Independent Directors
              more effectively. However, each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s
              Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer
              Evaluation to ensure that each of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the
              Listing Requirements.

62 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.

The Nomination Committee and Board also concluded that the length of service of all the Independent
Directors on the Board do not in any way interfere with their exercise of independent judgement and
ability to act in the best interests of the Group and they had continued to possess the following qualities:

• They are respectable personalities in society. Hence, their contributions, views and insights are always
     taken seriously and respected by the management;

• They have the ability to analyse issues, challenge viewpoints of the management with intelligent
     questioning and debate rigorously in the decision-making process; and

• They remain capable of exercising unbiased, objective and independent view, advice and judgement
     in the decision-making process.

Board Committees

The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.

The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.

Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors as follows:

Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain (Chairman)  Independent Non-Executive Director
Tun Arshad bin Ayub                                   Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                   Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                               Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris   Independent Non-Executive Director

The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:

a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
     Board with regards to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
     Committees of the Board;

b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
     vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
     Chairman and the Managing Director;

                                                      63 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Corporate Governance
     Overview Statement (cont’d)

              c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
                   Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
                   Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;

              d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
                   the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;

              e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
                   Executive or Non-Executive Director;

              f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and
              g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary

                   to fulfill its responsibilities.
              The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
              and Individual Director for year 2020 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director on a
              confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised of a Board and Board Committees Performance
              Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
              for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
              composition, operations, roles and responsibilities and performance of the Chairman.
              In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
              level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
              of its Chairman.
              Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed on his contribution to interaction, quality of input and
              understanding of his/her role.
              Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
              Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
              achieved the strong ratings.
              Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
              to the Board that:
              • The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities

                   professionally and effectively.
              • Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her

                   role and responsibility towards an effective Board.
              • All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the

                   Listing Requirements.
              • All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and

                   in exercising their decision-making irrespective of their length of service.
              • Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Mr Quah Poh Keat,

                   Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon who are retiring by rotation
                   and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
              The Nomination Committee meets as and when required and at least once a year. During the year under
              review, 1 meeting was held.

64 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
III. Remuneration

     Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management

     The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
     of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
     The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
     Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
     package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
     incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
     Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
     and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long term goals of the Group.

     The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
     Directors are paid Directors’ and Committee fees and meeting allowance for each Board and Committee
     meeting they attend. Besides these, the Chairman is entitled to the Company’s car benefit. In addition,
     the Company reimburses reasonable expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their
     duties.

     Remuneration Committee

     The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
     consists of 1 Independent Non-Executive Director, 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors and
     1 Executive Director as follows:

Tun Arshad bin Ayub (Chairman)                           Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                      Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                                  Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Teh Wee Chye                                             Managing Director

The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:

a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the
     Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;

b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company
     or Group;

c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination
     payments and compensation commitments;

d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the
     Company or Group;

e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will
     form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and

f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it
     deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.

The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’/Committees’ fees
and meeting allowances. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees, the Committee ensures
that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with their scope of
responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee also reviews
and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior Management for
the Board’s approval.

                                                         65 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
the shareholders at the AGM.

The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required and at least twice a year. During the year
under review, 2 meetings were held.

Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
in respect of financial year 2020 are as follows:

                                                         Salary/

                                                         Bonus/

                                                         Beneﬁts-    Other

                                                    Fees in-kind     Remuneration      Total

                                                    Company Company Subsidiary Company Group

                                                                     RM’000

Executive Directors                                 - 2,403          163           25  2,566 2,591
Teh Wee Chye
Azhari Arshad                                       -    543         31            -   574 574
Lim Pang Boon
Non-Executive Directors                             - 1,176          -       208       1,176 1,384
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                 240  28          34            70  302 372

Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad                120           -  36            -   156 156
Zain
                                                    120           -  27            -   147 147
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
                                                    120           -  24            25  144 169
Quah Poh Keat
                                                    120           -  19            -   139 139
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini
binti Ideris                                        120           -  14            -   134 134

Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil                      120           -  10            -   130 130

Total                                               960 4,150        358     328       5,468 5,796

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit & Risk Management Committee

     The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
     report are presented on pages 71 to 74 of this Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

     The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
     operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal controls provides reasonable but
     not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.

     The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 75 to 79 of this Annual
     Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.

66 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
                    RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

I. Corporate Reporting

     Financial Reporting
     The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
     financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
     of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
     contained in this Annual Report for the shareholders.
     The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
     approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
     are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
     consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.
     Corporate Disclosure
     The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
     a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
     stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
     compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.

II. Communication with Stakeholders

     The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and
     Circular/Statement to Shareholders together with the announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities
     Berhad on material information and corporate proposals are the principal channels for dissemination of
     information to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally.
     The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
     information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the corporate profile,
     directors’ profiles, financial results, annual reports, announcements released to Bursa Malaysia Securities
     Berhad, research reports, board charter, corporate governance statement, summary of AGM proceedings,
     code of conduct, whistle blowing policy, dividend information, corporate news, operations and products
     of the Group.
     From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
     analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.
     In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
     via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.
     As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns to an
     independent director, the Board has appointed Datuk Oh Chong Peng as the Senior Independent Non-
     Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and shareholders may
     contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.

                                                                            67 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
       III. Conduct of General Meetings

              The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
              and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
              to participate in the proceedings.
              The Company serves the Notice of AGM to the shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting to
              provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting decision at the AGM.
              The Company has successfully conducted its first fully virtual AGM on 24 June 2020 during the period
              of Conditional Movement Control Order (“CMCO”) through live streaming and online remote voting using
              Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities.
              The conduct of the fully virtual AGM is in compliance with the Constitution of the Company which allows
              General Meetings to be held using any technology or electronic means as well as in accordance with
              the Securities Commission Malaysia’s Guidance Note on the Conduct of General Meetings for Listed
              Issuers during a period when there is in place or outside of an MCO period but where safe distancing
              requirements remain.
              In view of the attendance limitation of public gatherings for safe distancing to prevent the spread of
              COVID-19 pandemic and taking into consideration the well-being of shareholders and all participants,
              only the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and other essential persons were allowed
              to be physically present at the broadcast venue while the rest of the Directors and meeting participants
              participated in the AGM remotely.
              The Managing Director presented the brief overview of the financial performance of the Group during
              the AGM. Every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions and seek clarification on
              the business and performance of the Group during the live webcast by posing questions through the
              messaging window facility of the Virtual AGM Portal. Shareholders’ suggestions received during AGM are
              reviewed and considered for implementation wherever possible.
              In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were
              voted by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions
              using the RPV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed
              to verify all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were
              displayed on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same
              day.
              Summary of the minutes of the AGM is also posted on the Company’s website for the information and
              benefit of all the shareholders of the Company.

68 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                               Additional Compliance
                                                              Information

The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.

1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposal

     The Company has on 28 January 2019 completed its Rights Issue of Redeemable Convertible Unsecured
     Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and Rights Issue of Shares with free Warrants and Bonus Shares (collectively
     referred to as the “Rights Issue”). Pursuant to the Rights Issue, 165,084,641 RCULS at 100% of its
     nominal value of RM1.00 and 220,113,744 Rights Shares of RM0.50 each were issued and cash proceeds
     of RM275,141,513 were raised.

     The summary of the utilisation of Rights Issue proceeds is as follows:-

Description of Utilisation of          Rights    Actual        Balance of            Revised time
Proceeds                                Issue  Utilisation    Rights Issue                frame
                                     Proceeds  (RM’000)
Capital expenditure and repayment    (RM’000)                   Proceeds             @ Within 3 years
of revolving credit loans drawn to                          Unutilised as at
finance the capital expenditure      216,761 209,022        31 March 2021                   Completed

Repayment of revolving credit loans  54,798    54,798           (RM’000)                    Completed
drawn to finance working capital
requirement                             3,583  # 3,954                     7,739
                                     275,142   267,774
Estimated expenses for the Rights                                                 -
Issue
                                                                                  -
Total                                                                      7,739

@ Construction work is in progress. The time frame has been extended for another 1 year from
    28 January 2021 until 28 January 2022.

# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.

The proceeds to be raised from the exercise of the 137,570,667 Warrants issued pursuant to the Rights
Issue at the exercise price of the Warrants of RM0.68 each are dependent on the total number of Warrants
exercised during the tenure of the Warrants. Such proceeds, if and when the Warrants are exercised, will
be used for working capital purposes.

Up to 31 March 2021, cash proceeds of RM4,284 were raised from the exercise of 6,300 Warrants.

As at 31 March 2021, 137,564,367 Warrants remained unexercised whilst 109,924,827 RCULS remained
unconverted.

                                                            69 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

     The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
     PLT and a firm affiliated to KPMG PLT by the Group and the Company for financial year 2020 are as
     follows:

Audit Fees                                           Group    Company
                                                    (RM’000)  (RM’000)

                                                       459        110

Non-Audit Fees                                      109       44

Total                                               568       154

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

     There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
     and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2020 or entered into since the end
     of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 29 to the financial
     statements on pages 173 and 174 of this Annual Report.

4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature

     The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 29 to the
     financial statements on pages 173 and 174 of this Annual Report.

70 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                           Audit & Risk Management
                                                     Committee Report

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2020.

Composition

Chairman:    Datuk Oh Chong Peng
             (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)

Members:     Tun Arshad bin Ayub
             (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

             Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
             (Independent Non-Executive Director)

             Quah Poh Keat
             (Independent Non-Executive Director)

The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 4 members, all of whom are Non-
Executive Directors and 3 being Independent Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)
(a) and (b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).

Chairman of the Committee, Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) whilst Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the
Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and
a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.

The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.

Meetings

During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:

Members                                                   Attendance
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                             5/5
Tun Arshad bin Ayub                                             5/5
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                       5/5
Quah Poh Keat                                                   5/5

At the request of the Committee, the Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and/or Financial Controller
had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.

The Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management had attended all the quarterly meetings of the
Committee to report on the internal audit plan, internal audit and risk management reports and the review on
the related party transactions.

During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.

                                                          71 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Audit & Risk Management
     Committee Report (cont’d)

         The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary shall maintain
         minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.

      Terms of Reference

         The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
         responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.

      Summary of the Work of the Committee

         The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
         of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 were as follows:
         a. Financial Reporting

              i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
                   to the Board for approval.

              ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
                   and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.

              iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
                   standards and treatments used in the financial statements.

         b. Internal Audit
              i. Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
                   which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
                   to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
                   adequate scope, coverage of the activities of the Group and the resource requirements of internal
                   audit to carry out its functions.
                   Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
                   Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management at its quarterly meeting.
              ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Head of
                   Group Internal Audit and Risk Management at each of the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The
                   Committee appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in
                   resolving audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.
              iii. Reviewed the performance of the Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management and based on
                   the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, approved his salary increment and performance
                   incentive.

         c. External Audit
              i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
                   audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan and Strategy for the Group for
                   financial year 2020 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus
                   areas.
              ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
                   and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
                   auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.

72 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
          and findings noted in the course of the audit.

     iv. Meeting with the external auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors and employees
          of the Company. During the meeting, the external auditors were invited to raise any matter which
          they considered vital for the Committee’s attention. The external auditors had confirmed that the
          management had given its full support, co-operation and unrestricted access to information as
          required by the external auditors to perform their duties.

     v. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
          and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
          of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
          for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
          Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
          accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

          The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
          to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.

          Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
          Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
          the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
          auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
          auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
          competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
          audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
          the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
          at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.

d. Risk Management

     i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
          the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.

     ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
          by the Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management on behalf of the Committee, being the
          delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the SORMIC.

          Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
          assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
          disclosure in the Annual Report.

          The Committee authorised the Managing Director of the Company and the Financial Controller to sign
          the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC, for and on behalf of the Committee.

     iii. Reviewed the revised Terms of Reference of the Committee to oversee the implementation of the anti-
          corruption policies and procedures of the Group and review the policies and procedures at least once
          every 3 years to assess their effectiveness; to review the Whistle Blowing policies and procedures of
          the Group at least once every 3 years to assess their effectiveness; and to provide improvement to
          some of the terms for better clarity before recommending the revised terms for approval by the Board.

     iv. Reviewed the Policy and Guidelines on Foreign Exchange Hedging (“Hedging Policy”) of the Company
          to manage the foreign currency risk exposure before recommending the Hedging Policy to the Board
          for adoption.

                                                                            73 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Audit & Risk Management
     Committee Report (cont’d)

      Internal Audit Function

         The Group has an in-house Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Department (“IARM”) which
         undertakes internal audit functions based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by
         the Committee.
         The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARM as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
         activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.
         The IARM reports directly to the Committee who reviews and approves the IARM’s annual audit plan, financial
         budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function is adequately resourced with competent
         and proficient internal auditors.
         During the year, the IARM conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
         audit plan which covered the review of adequacy of risks management, operational controls, compliance with
         law and regulations, quality of assets, management efficiency and level of customer services amongst others.
         The internal auditors reported internal control deficiencies to the appropriate level of management when
         identified and recommendations were duly acted by the management. Significant matters were reported
         directly to the Committee and Senior Management.
         The total costs incurred for maintaining the Group Internal Audit and Risk Management function for year 2020
         were approximately RM669,759.

74 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                  Statement on Risk Management
                                                    and Internal Control

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is pleased to present the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Listing Requirements.

Board Responsibility

The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks

     to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to

     ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Internal Control

Risk Management

The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.

Risk Management Framework

The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.

                                                                            75 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Statement on Risk Management
     and Internal Control (cont’d)

         Internal Audit & Risk Management department will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
         them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
         Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
         highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.

       Control Structure

         • The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
              findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
              measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
              the system of internal control.

         • An independent internal audit department reports directly to the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
              Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management Committee and the
              plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal control and to
              provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including policies and
              procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that appropriate
              actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.

         • The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
              procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
              ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.

76 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
     and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
     a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
     and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.

• The Group Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly to review and resolve key
     operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including issues of risks and internal
     controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.

• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
     cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.

• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
     and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
     training courses.

• The Group Code of Conduct is established to set out the ethical standards to all employees in their
     dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community
     and the environment.

• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
     raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.
     The policy allows the Management to take appropriate preventive and corrective actions without the
     negative effects that come with public disclosure, such as loss of image or reputation, financial distress,
     loss of investor confidence or a drop in value of the share prices. Through this policy, employees are
     encouraged to disclose concerns about illegal, unethical or improper business conduct which otherwise
     may not be easily detected through normal process or transaction.
     The Group is committed to conduct business dealings with the highest level of integrity and ethics and
     to comply fully with applicable laws and regulatory requirements on anti-corruption. The Group has
     adopted a zero-tolerance approach against all forms of bribery and corruption and takes a strong stance
     against such acts. During the financial year under review, the Group adopted and implemented its own
     Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABAC Policy”), based on the Main Market Listing Requirements of
     Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Section 17A of the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009
     (“MACC Act”). The ABAC Policy sets out the Group’s policies to prevent acts of bribery and corruption,
     and is published on the Company’s website.

Signiﬁcant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group

a. Business risks

     Our Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
     As such, our Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
     demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase
     in the cost of labour and raw material prices. We continuously seek to limit these risks through amongst
     others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of our business.

                                                                            77 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Statement on Risk Management
     and Internal Control (cont’d)

       b. Availability and cost of raw materials

              Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of our total cost
              of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent on market
              conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect our Group’s profitability and results of
              operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, we may find it difficult to obtain the amount
              of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. We have taken relevant steps to hedge
              our exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts. In addition, we have good
              business relationships with our long term major suppliers and where possible, source our supplies from
              a variety of suppliers.

       c. Government policies & regulations including price controls & subsidies

              The price of general-purpose flour in Malaysia is largely regulated and controlled by the Government vide
              the Price Control Act 1946. Thus, our financial performance depends to a certain extent on Government’s
              policies in respect of the flour industry, such as the level of price ceilings and flour subsidy, which are
              beyond our control. With effect from 1st March 2016, the wheat flour subsidy for 25kg bag flour had been
              removed by the Government, whilst, the 1kg general purpose flour subsidy has remained unchanged
              based on the subsidy rationalisation program.

       d. Bio-Security

              In combating bio-security risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
              and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
              exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
              will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.
              Disease and Virus
              Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
              Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds. The Group has embarked upon
              bio-security installations and HACCP (Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points) certification, FSSC 22000,
              HALAL, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice for Food), ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and MyGAP
              Certifications. In essence, HACCP is a management system in which food safety is addressed through
              the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production,
              procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
              COVID-19
              The COVID-19 pandemic has developed rapidly in 2020, with a significant number of cases. Measures
              taken by the government to contain the virus have affected economic activities. We have taken a number
              of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our
              people (e.g. social distancing, working from home and others) and securing the supply of materials that
              are essential to our production process.
              As we operate in the food industry (an essential service), we expect demand for our products to continue.
              We will continue our operations in the best and safest way possible without jeopardising the health of our
              people.

78 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
e. Foreign exchange ﬂuctuations

     All of raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal are imported, whereby the purchase prices are
     largely denominated in USD. As such, we have taken sufficient steps to hedge our financial exposure to
     foreign currency fluctuations by entering into forward contracts. However, there can be no assurance that
     any significant changes in exchange rate fluctuations or foreign exchange control regulations will not have
     any adverse impact upon our Group’s business.

Review of this Statement by External Auditors

The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements
to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause
them to believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has
not been prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.

Conclusion

Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Managing Director and Financial Controller in this respect.
Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards operating a sound system of internal
control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed, added or updated in line with the
changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad and its subsidiaries only. Joint
venture and associate are excluded because the Group does not have full management and control over them.
However, the Group’s interests in its material joint venture and associate are served through representations
on the Board of Directors of the respective joint venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 5 April 2021.

                                                                            79 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
REPORTS & FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

82                           95

Directors’ Responsibility    Statement of Changes in
Statement                    Equity

83                           96

Directors’ Report            Statements of Cash Flows

90                           100

Balance Sheets               Notes to the Financial
                             Statements
92
                             176
Income Statements
                             Statement by Directors
93
                             177
Statements of Comprehensive
Income                       Statutory Declaration

94                           178

Consolidated Statement of    Independent Auditors’ Report
Changes in Equity

                             81 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Directors’ Responsibility Statement

      For the Audited Financial Statements

         In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
         Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
         affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
         In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Directors have:
         • Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
         • Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
         • Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures

              disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
         The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
         reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
         the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
         taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
         and other irregularities.

82 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                     Directors’ Report

                                      for the year ended 31 December 2020

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

Principal activities

The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

Subsidiaries

The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

Results

                                       Group                                                    Company
                                      RM’000                                                      RM’000

Profit for the year attributable to:   5,413                                                    54,178
 Owners of the Company                15,171                                                            -
 Non-controlling interests

                                      20,584                                                    54,178

Reserves and provisions

There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except for the conversion of Redeemable Convertible Unsecured Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and warrants as
disclosed in Note 16 to the financial statements.

Dividends

Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid a second interim dividend of 1.80 sen per
ordinary share totalling approximately RM18,133,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2019
on 27 March 2020.

On 26 February 2021, the Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share totalling
approximately RM10,181,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020, which was paid on
26 March 2021.

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

                                      83 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Directors’ Report

      for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)

         Directors of the Company

         Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:

          Tun Arshad bin Ayub
          Teh Wee Chye
          Datuk Oh Chong Peng
          Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
          Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
          Azhari Arshad
          Quah Poh Keat
          Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
          Lim Pang Boon
          Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil

         List of Directors of subsidiaries

         Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
         the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:

          Tun Arshad bin Ayub
          Teh Wee Chye
          Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
          Azhari Arshad
          Lim Pang Boon
          Bui Thi Thanh Tam
          Le Cong Anh
          Phan Xuan Que
          Chua Kiat Hwa
          Tan Keng Seng
          Keisuke Okada
          Huynh Duc Chinh
          Hideki Oya
          Shigeharu Kato (Appointed on 1 September 2020)
          Koichiro Ito (Ceased on 19 February 2020)
          Kazutaka Kuromiya (Ceased on 31 August 2020)
          Kong Pak Cheong (Ceased on 31 December 2020)
          Dato’ Dr. Kamruddin @ Kardin bin Shukor (Retired on 31 December 2020)
          Wong Su Yen Caroline (Resigned on 28 February 2021)

84 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests

The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, RCULS and Warrants of the Company and of its
related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end
(including the interests of the spouses or children of the Directors who themselves are not Directors of the
Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:

                                              Number of ordinary shares

                                      At      Acquired       Disposed                At
                              1.1.2020                                   31.12.2020

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest               120,023,411                 -  - 120,023,411
Teh Wee Chye                   54,686,170     1,350,750
Tun Arshad bin Ayub                  23,087                  - 56,036,920
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                       -
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin           8,250                 -           23,087
                                 7,078,500                -
 Mahamad Zain                                             -  -           8,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon            488,585                -
Lim Pang Boon                      460,000        40,000     - 7,078,500
Azhari Arshad
                                                             -           488,585

                                                             -           500,000

Deemed interest               63,954,360               -     - 63,954,360
Teh Wee Chye                       63,000              -
                                              200,000        -           63,000
 - own                        15,529,800      200,000
 - others*                    15,529,800                     - 15,729,800
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Azhari Arshad                                                - 15,729,800

Deemed interest of            7,000,001       -              - 7,000,001
 Teh Wee Chye in                                             - 10,200,000
 subsidiary companies         10,200,000      -
                                                             - 106,029,560
Muda Fibre Manufacturing      106,029,560     -
 Sdn. Bhd.

Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd.
Dindings Poultry Development

 Centre Sdn. Bhd.

                                              85 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report

for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)

Directors’ interests (cont’d)                       Interest in capital contribution denominated in

Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye in                                  Vietnamese Dong (VND)
 subsidiary companies (cont’d)
                                                    At                                               At
Vimaflour Ltd
                                                    1.1.2020        Acquired    Disposed 31.12.2020
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad                        VND’000         VND’000     VND’000    VND’000
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye                                        248,953,884     97,007,400          - 345,961,284
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                             At  Number of RCULS
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain              1.1.2020
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                                             Acquired    Disposed               At
Lim Pang Boon                                                                              31.12.2020
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye                                        35,659,395               -          - 35,659,395
Tun Arshad bin Ayub                                 12,306,540      532,500
Azhari Arshad                                                                           - 12,839,040
                                                           2,000             -
Company                                                    1,500             -          -  2,000
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad                         1,287,000               -
Direct interest                                          66,120              -          -  1,500
Teh Wee Chye
Tun Arshad bin Ayub                                                                     - 1,287,000
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                                               -  66,120
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Lim Pang Boon                                       11,628,065      -                   - 11,628,065
Azhari Arshad                                            50,000
                                                         50,000     -                   -  50,000

                                                                At  -                   -  50,000
                                                       1.1.2020
                                                                    Number of Warrants

                                                                    Acquired    Disposed               At
                                                                                           31.12.2020

                                                    25,975,944      -                   - 25,975,944

                                                    6,973,950       -                   - 6,973,950

                                                    4,387           -                   -  4,387

                                                    1,250           -                   -  1,250

                                                    1,072,500       -                   - 1,072,500

                                                    80,085          -                   -  80,085

                                                    62,500          -                   -  62,500

86 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests (cont’d)

                                                   Number of Warrants

                                               At  Acquired  Disposed              At
                                       1.1.2020                        31.12.2020

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)

Deemed interest                        9,690,052   -                   - 9,690,052
Teh Wee Chye

* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the
        Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.

None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2020 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and Warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.

Directors’ beneﬁts

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those fees and other benefits included in the aggregate amount of
remuneration received or due and receivable by Directors as shown in the financial statements) by reason of
a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director
is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than certain
Directors who have substantial financial interests in companies which traded with certain companies in the
Group in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 29 to the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

Issue of shares

During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company was increased from
1,004,094,921 ordinary shares to 1,010,282,021 ordinary shares by way of the issuance of 6,187,100 new
ordinary shares pursuant to the conversion of 3,093,550 RCULS.

The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.

There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.

Options granted over unissued shares

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

                                                   87 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Directors’ Report

      for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)

         Indemnity and insurance costs

         During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
         Company was RM15,000.

         Other statutory information

         Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
         steps to ascertain that:

         (i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and

         (ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been
                 written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

         At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:

         (i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
                 in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or

         (ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
                 of the Company misleading, or

         (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
                 the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or

         (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated
                 in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.

         At the date of this report, there does not exist:

         (i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
                 year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or

         (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
                 financial year.

         No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
         to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
         opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
         their obligations as and when they fall due.

         In the opinion of the Directors, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial
         year ended 31 December 2020 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a
         material and unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the
         end of that financial year and the date of this report.

         Subsequent event

         Details of the subsequent event are disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements.

88 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
Kuala Lumpur
5 April 2021

                                                                            89 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Balance Sheets

at 31 December 2020

                                                                     Group           Company

                                                    Note  2020              2019     2020        2019

                                                          RM’000            RM’000   RM’000      RM’000

Assets                                              3     1,090,278  1,090,312       254,352     253,596
 Property, plant and equipment                                                          8,225       8,027
 Right-of-use assets                                4     30,420            31,087        277         432
 Intangible assets                                                                      4,726       4,782
 Investment properties                              5     3,656             1,733
 Investments in subsidiaries                                                         391,369     391,369
 Investment in a joint venture                      6     4,997             5,053    192,865     154,086
 Investment in an associate
 Deferred tax assets                                7     -                 -                 -           -
                                                                                              -           -
Total non-current assets                            8     164,738           130,912
                                                                                     851,814     812,292
 Trade and other receivables,                       9     1,050             1,074
   including derivatives
                                                    10    18,471            9,751
 Prepayments
 Inventories                                              1,313,610  1,269,922
 Biological assets
 Current tax assets                                 11    380,323           394,112  554,774     531,597
 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                          4,467             4,964    1,305       2,142
Asset classified as held for sale
                                                    12    428,194           510,219  54,901      101,746
Total current assets
                                                    13    48,586            56,860   -           -
Total assets
                                                          2,195             481      -           -
Equity
 Share capital                                      14    404,627           330,753  33,815      34,890
 RCULS - Equity
 Reserves                                                 1,268,392  1,297,389       644,795     670,375
                                                                                              -   14,821
Total equity attributable to                        15    -                 14,821
 owners of the Company
                                                          1,268,392  1,312,210       644,795     685,196
Non-controlling interests
                                                          2,582,002  2,582,132 1,496,609 1,497,488
Total equity
                                                          530,665           527,571  530,665     527,571
                                                           82,479            85,462   82,479      85,462

                                                          457,715           481,279  313,008     276,963

                                                    16    1,070,859  1,094,312       926,152     889,996
                                                                                              -           -
                                                    7     94,048            86,686
                                                                                     926,152     889,996
                                                          1,164,907  1,180,998

90 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                Group           Company

                               Note  2020              2019     2020     2019

                                     RM’000            RM’000   RM’000   RM’000

Liabilities                    10    3,335             2,644    3,335    2,644
 Deferred tax liabilities
 RCULS - Liabilities           16    14,234            18,500   14,234   18,500
 Loans and borrowings
 Lease liabilities             18    227,428           223,058  -        2,200

Total non-current liabilities        3,532             3,377    2,248    2,438

 RCULS - Liabilities                 248,529           247,579  19,817   25,782
 Trade and other payables,
                               16    5,087             5,495    5,087    5,495
   including derivatives
 Loans and borrowings          17    220,335           191,303  170,087  140,347
 Lease liabilities
 Current tax liabilities       18    932,148           947,628  371,964  434,431

Total current liabilities            2,063             1,886    1,573    1,404

Total liabilities                    8,933             7,243    1,929    33

Total equity and liabilities         1,168,566  1,153,555       550,640  581,710

                                     1,417,095  1,401,134       570,457  607,492

                                     2,582,002  2,582,132 1,496,609 1,497,488

The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

                                                                 91 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Income Statements

for the year ended 31 December 2020

                                                        Group            Company

                                     Note  2020                2019      2020                                    2019
                                      19
                                           RM’000              RM’000    RM’000                                  RM’000
                                      20
Revenue                                8   2,680,670    2,681,563        476,181                                 483,667
Cost of goods sold                    21   (2,457,034)  (2,421,298)      (401,405)                               (417,643)

Gross proﬁt                                223,636      260,265          74,776                                  66,024
Other income                                 21,752       12,543         47,027                                  31,926
Distribution expenses                                                    (42,434)                                (42,094)
Administrative expenses                    (134,463)    (129,657)        (20,800)                                (18,513)
Net loss on impairment of financial         (50,902)     (50,539)

 instruments                               (1,190)             (5,978)     (180)                                   (846)
Other expenses                             (6,486)             (4,047)   (3,803)                                 (2,133)

Results from operating activities          52,347              82,587    54,586                                  34,364
Interest expense                           (37,293)            (29,684)  (18,298)                                (19,631)
Interest income                            20,022              11,304    22,821                                  19,901

Net ﬁnance (costs)/income                  (17,271)            (18,380)  4,523                                   270

Operating proﬁt                            35,076              64,207    59,109                                  34,634
Share of profit of equity accounted
                                           967                 14,121    -                                       -
 joint venture, net of tax
Share of loss of equity accounted          (16)                (33)      -                                       -

 associate, net of tax                     36,027              78,295    59,109                                  34,634
                                           (15,443)            (17,693)  (4,931)                                 (8,151)
Proﬁt before tax
Tax expense                                20,584              60,602    54,178                                  26,483

Proﬁt for the year

Proﬁt attributable to:                      5,413              43,251    54,178                                  26,483
Owners of the Company                      15,171              17,351            -                                       -
Non-controlling interests
                                           20,584              60,602    54,178                                  26,483
Proﬁt for the year
                                     22    0.54                4.51
Basic earnings per ordinary
 share (sen)                         22    0.54                3.35

Diluted earnings per ordinary
 share (sen)

                       The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

92 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Comprehensive Income

                   for the year ended 31 December 2020

                                                        Group           Company

                                              2020             2019     2020       2019

                                              RM’000           RM’000   RM’000     RM’000

Proﬁt for the year                            20,584           60,602   54,178     26,483

Other comprehensive income for the year,      (12,013)         (1,095)          -          -
 net of tax                                     8,571          59,507   54,178     26,483

Item that is or may be reclassiﬁed
 subsequently to income statement

Foreign currency translation differences for
 foreign operations

Total comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income attributable to:   (5,431)          42,728   54,178     26,483
Owners of the Company                         14,002           16,779           -          -
Non-controlling interests
                                               8,571           59,507   54,178     26,483
Total comprehensive income for the year

The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

                                                                 93 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 December 2020

                                             Attributable to owners of the Company

                                             Non-distributable          Distributable

                                                               Other                                   Non-
                                                                                                 controlling
                                    Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained    Total interests          Total
                                                                                        RM’000 RM’000             equity
Group                           Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings                             RM’000

                                    RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2019                   377,501  -              -  40,883   (42,223) 443,789 819,950    74,223 894,173

Foreign currency translation                                -        -
                                                            -        -
differences for foreign
                                                            -        -
operations                          -        -        10,730         -  (523)       -   (523)         (572) (1,095)
                                                       7,154         -                              17,351 60,602
Profit for the year                 -        -                       -  - 43,251 43,251
                                                            -        -
Total comprehensive (expense)/                              *
                                                                     -
income for the year                 -        -              -           (523) 43,251 42,728         16,779        59,507
                                                                     -                                    -      136,359
Issuance of RCULS               16  - 125,629               -           -           - 136,359             -      109,161
                                                                                                          -
Issuance of Rights Shares       16 102,007   -                          -           - 109,161             -        7,895
                                                                                                                        1
Conversion of RCULS             16 48,062 (40,167)                      -           - 7,895

Exercise of warrants            16  1        -                          -           -   1

Dividends to owners of the

Company                         23  -        -                          - (21,782) (21,782)         - (21,782)

Dividends to non-controlling

interests                       7   -        -                          -           -   -           (4,316) (4,316)
                                                                                                    86,686 1,180,998
At 31 December 2019                 527,571 85,462 17,884 40,883        (42,746) 465,258 1,094,312

                                    Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16     Note 16

* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised

                                             Attributable to owners of the Company

                                             Non-distributable          Distributable

                                                               Other                                   Non-
                                                                                                 controlling
                                    Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained    Total interests          Total
                                                                                        RM’000 RM’000             equity
Group                           Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings                             RM’000

                                    RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2020                   527,571  85,462   17,884 40,883     (42,746) 465,258 1,094,312  86,686 1,180,998

Foreign currency translation                       -
                                                   -
differences for foreign                            -
                                             (2,983)
operations                          -              -  -         -       (10,844)    - (10,844)      (1,169) (12,013)
                                                   -                                                15,171 20,584
Profit for the year                 -                 -         -       - 5,413 5,413

Total comprehensive (expense)/

income for the year                 -                 -         -       (10,844) 5,413  (5,431)     14,002       8,571
                                                                                          111             -        111
Conversion of RCULS             16 3,094              -         -       -           -

Dividends to owners of the

Company                         23  -                 -         -       - (18,133) (18,133)         - (18,133)

Dividends to non-controlling

interests                       7   -                 -         -       -           -   -           (6,640) (6,640)

At 31 December 2020                 530,665 82,479 17,884 40,883 (53,590) 452,538 1,070,859 94,048 1,164,907
                                    Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16

                       The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

94 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                              Statement of Changes in Equity

                                                     for the year ended 31 December 2020

                                              Non-distributable                  Distributable

                                              Share RCULS - Warrant Retained                       Total
                                                                                                  equity
Company                        Note           capital     Equity reserve earnings               RM’000

                                              RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2019                             377,501     -           - 254,378 631,879

Proﬁt and total comprehensive
 income for the year

Profit for the year                           -           -           -          26,483 26,483
Other comprehensive income
                                              -           -           -          -              -
 for the year

Total comprehensive income

for the year                                           -           -          -  26,483          26,483
                                                       -  125,629     10,730             -      136,359
Issuance of RCULS                         16  102,007                                    -      109,161
                                               48,062              -   7,154             -
Issuance of rights shares                 16           1  (40,167)            -          -         7,895
                                                       -                      *                          1
Conversion of RCULS                       16                       -          -  (21,782)
                                              527,571              -                            (21,782)
Exercise of warrants                      16                          17,884
                                                           85,462
Dividends to owners of the Company 23

At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020                                               259,079 889,996

Proﬁt and total comprehensive
 income for the year

Profit for the year                           -           -           -          54,178 54,178
Other comprehensive income
                                              -           -           -          -              -
 for the year

Total comprehensive income

for the year                                           -  -           -          54,178         54,178
                                                 3,094                                   -          111
Conversion of RCULS                       16              (2,983)     -
                                                       -                         (18,133)       (18,133)
Dividends to owners of the Company 23                     -           -
                                              530,665
At 31 December 2020                                       82,479 17,884          295,124 926,152
                                              Note 16
                                                          Note 16 Note 16

* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised

         The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

                                                                          95 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2020

                                                                      Group              Company

                                                    Note  2020               2019        2020       2019

                                                          RM’000             RM’000      RM’000     RM’000

Cash ﬂows from operating activities

Profit before tax                                         36,027             78,295      59,109     34,634

Adjustments for:                                            1,055                977         236        205
                                                                56                 57          56         57
Amortisation of intangible assets                   5
                                                          67,355             64,537      15,738     18,300
Depreciation of investment properties 6                     3,202              3,448       1,899      2,128
                                                                 (6)                (5)
Depreciation of property, plant                                                          (26,736)   (18,982)
                                                           (8,305)               (258)
and equipment                                       3     37,293             29,684       (8,076)        (68)
                                                          (20,022)           (11,304)    18,298     19,631
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                 4                                    (22,821)   (19,901)
                                                              724                156
Dividend income                                                                                18         82
                                                              (967)          (14,121)
Net gain on disposal of property,                                                                -          -
                                                                16                 33
plant and equipment                                                                              -          -
                                                                 (2)          (1,639)
Interest expense                                                                             550         (12)

Interest income

Property, plant and equipment

written off

Share of profit of equity accounted

joint venture, net of tax                           8

Share of loss of equity accounted

associate, net of tax

Net unrealised (gain)/loss on

foreign exchange

Operating proﬁt before changes                            116,426            149,860     38,271     36,074
 in working capital
                                                           12,565             18,680     (22,340)   (54,749)
Changes in working capital:                                78,775            (43,689)    46,845      (2,779)
 Trade and other receivables,                                                                               -
   prepayments and other                                     8,274             (1,954)           -
   financial assets                                                                                 (14,367)
 Inventories                                               28,305             48,229     28,786
 Biological assets                                                                                  (35,821)
 Trade and other payables                                 244,345            171,126     91,562     (18,322)
   and other financial liabilities                        (36,018)           (28,375)    (17,023)   19,901
                                                           20,022             11,304     22,821
Cash generated from/(used in)                             (23,127)           (14,754)                (1,566)
 operations                                                                               (2,379)
 Interest paid                                            205,222            139,301                (35,808)
 Interest received                                                                       94,981
 Net income tax paid

Net cash generated from/(used in)
 operating activities

96 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                           Group              Company

                                         Note  2020               2019        2020       2019

                                               RM’000             RM’000      RM’000     RM’000

Cash ﬂows from investing activities

Acquisition of intangible assets         5      (2,989)         (135)              (81)      (129)
                                               (69,755)    (213,177)          (16,535)   (30,656)
Acquisition of property, plant and             (38,779)                       (38,779)   (53,797)
                                                            (53,797)          26,736     18,982
equipment                                3             6             5        22,920
                                               23,127                                          78
Increase in investment in                      (88,390)          304           (5,739)   (65,522)
                                                           (266,800)
a joint venture                          8

Dividend income

Proceeds from disposal of

property, plant and equipment

Net cash used in investing activities

Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities

Dividends paid to non-controlling

interests                                7       (6,640)            (4,316)           -            -
                                               (18,133)           (21,782)
Dividends paid to owners of the                                    49,634     (18,133)    (21,782)
                                                 (4,600)          163,740
Company                                  23             -         109,161     (64,263)   (123,782)
                                                        -                             -  163,740
(Repayment of)/Proceeds from                                        (2,953)
                                                 (5,803)            (2,242)           -  109,161
loans and borrowings, net                        (2,249)                       (5,803)      (2,953)
                                                                           1   (2,118)      (1,666)
Proceeds from issuance of RCULS 16                      -                                          1
                                                                  291,243             -
Proceeds from issuance of                      (37,425)
                                                                  163,744
Rights Shares                            16.1   79,407              (1,823)
                                                 (5,533)
RCULS coupon payment                           330,753            168,832

Payment of lease liabilities                   404,627            330,753

Exercise of the warrants

Net cash (used in)/generated from                                             (90,317)   122,719
 ﬁnancing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash                                               (1,075)    21,389
 and cash equivalents                                                                 -          -

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on                                       34,890     13,501
 cash held

Cash and cash equivalents
 at 1 January

Cash and cash equivalents                                                     33,815     34,890
 at 31 December

                                                                  97 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)

Cash outﬂows for leases as a lessee

                                                                   Group           Company

                                                    Note  2020            2019     2020     2019

                                                          RM’000          RM’000   RM’000   RM’000

Included in net cash from

operating activities

Payment relating to short-term leases 20                    399             221    13       32
                                                            190             157
Payment relating to leases of
                                                          4,995           2,541
low-value assets                                    20      263             325    92       96

Payment relating to variable lease

payments not included in the

measurement of lease liabilities                    20                             257      127

Interest paid in relation to lease

liabilities                                                                        192      232

Included in net cash from                                 2,249           2,242    2,118    1,666
 ﬁnancing activities                                      8,096           5,486    2,672    2,153

Payment of lease liabilities

Total cash outﬂows for leases

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following balance sheets
amounts:

                                                                   Group           Company

                                                    Note  2020            2019     2020     2019

                                                          RM’000          RM’000   RM’000   RM’000

Deposits placed with licensed banks 14                    344,207         268,350      421      414
                                                           38,013          43,572  10,987   15,645
Cash and bank balances                              14     22,407          18,831  22,407   18,831

Liquid investments                                  14

                                                          404,627         330,753  33,815   34,890

98 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash ﬂows arising from ﬁnancing activities

                                   Net                               Net

                                   changes                           changes

                        At         from Acquisition Foreign   At 31  from Acquisition Foreign   At 31

                        1 January financing of new exchange December financing of new exchange December

                        2019 cash flows       lease movement  2019 cash flows  lease movement   2020

                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Group

Unsecured bankers’      959,499    (54,083)   - (5,368) 900,048 (8,240)             -  (6,510)  885,298
 acceptances/           166,921    103,717                                          -        -  274,278
 Unsecured                                    -    - 270,638         3,640     2,581         -
 revolving credits        7,231      (2,242)                                                      5,595
                                              274  - 5,263 (2,249)
Unsecured term loans
Lease liabilities

Total liabilities from  1,133,651  47,392     274 (5,368) 1,175,949 (6,849)    2,581 (6,510) 1,165,171
 financing activities

Company

Unsecured bankers’      535,986    (107,922)  - (1,213) 426,851 (56,683)            -     (404) 369,764
 acceptances/            25,640     (15,860)                                        -         - 2,200
 Unsecured                5,357      (1,666)  -    - 9,780 (7,580)             2,097          - 3,821
 revolving credits
                                              151  - 3,842 (2,118)
Unsecured term loans
Lease liabilities

Total liabilities from  566,983 (125,448)     151 (1,213) 440,473 (66,381)     2,097      (404) 375,785
 financing activities

         The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements

                                                                          99 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements

         Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
         is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office, which
         is also its principal place of business is as follows:

         Registered ofﬁce and principal place of business

         22nd Floor, Wisma MCA
         163 Jalan Ampang
         50450 Kuala Lumpur

         The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 December
         2020 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually referred
         to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and a joint venture.

         The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains
         and other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the
         financial statements.

         The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 April 2021.

      1. Basis of preparation

              (a) Statement of compliance

                          The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
                          with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting
                          Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

                          The following are accounting standards, amendments and interpretations that have been issued
                          by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been adopted by the
                          Group and the Company:

                          MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                          after 1 January 2021
                          • Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments, MFRS 139, Financial Instruments:

                                  Recognition and Measurement, MFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, MFRS 4,
                                  Insurance Contracts* and MFRS 16, Leases – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2

                          MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                          after 1 January 2022
                          • Amendments to MFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards

                                  (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)*
                          • Amendments to MFRS 3, Business Combinations – Reference to the Conceptual

                                  Framework
                          • Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards

                                  2018−2020)
                          • Amendments to Illustrative Examples accompanying MFRS 16, Leases (Annual

                                  Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)

100 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

       (a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)

                 MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                 after 1 January 2022 (cont’d)
                 • Amendments to MFRS 116, Property, Plant and Equipment − Proceeds before Intended

                         Use
                 • Amendments to MFRS 137, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets −

                         Onerous Contracts − Cost of Fulﬁlling a Contract
                 • Amendments to MFRS 141, Agriculture (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards

                         2018−2020)

                 MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                 after 1 January 2023
                 • MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
                 • Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Classiﬁcation of

                         Liabilities as Current or Non-current

                 MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
                 after a date yet to be confirmed
                 • Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments

                         in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
                         its Associate or Joint Venture

                 The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
                 interpretations and amendments:

                 • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2021 for those amendments that are
                         effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021, except as marked as
                         (“*”) which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.

                 • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2022 for those amendments that are
                         effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, except as marked as
                         (“*”) which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.

                 • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2023 for the accounting standard and
                         amendments that are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023,
                         except for MFRS 17 which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.

                 During the financial year, the Group has early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16, Leases –
                 COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after
                 1 June 2020.

                 The initial application of the abovementioned accounting standards and amendments are not
                 expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and prior period financial
                 statements of the Group and the Company.

       (b) Basis of measurement

                 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis other than as disclosed
                 in Note 2.

                                                                            101 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

(c) Functional and presentation currency

        These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
        functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the
        nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.

(d) Use of estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRS requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from
these estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
affected.

There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements other than disclosed in the following note:

(i)  Note 4 - extension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases

(ii) Note 13 - valuation of biological assets

(iii) Note 25 - measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)

2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies

        The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
        financial statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities, unless otherwise stated.

        The Group has applied the amendment of MFRS 16, Leases – COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions,
        issued by MASB in June 2020. The amendment introduces an optional practical expedient that
        simplifies how a lessee accounts for rent concessions, arising as a direct consequence of COVID-19
        pandemic. The initial application of the amendment to MFRS 16 did not have any material impact to
        the financial statements of the Group.

       (a) Basis of consolidation

                 (i) Subsidiaries

                         Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. The
                         financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
                         from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.

102 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

                 (i) Subsidiaries (cont’d)

                         The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
                         involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over
                         the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such
                         rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
                         when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the
                         activities of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.

                         Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
                         cost of investments includes transaction costs.

                 (ii) Business combinations

                         Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition
                         date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.

                         For new acquisitions, the Group measures the cost of goodwill at the acquisition date as:
                         • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
                         • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
                         • if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity

                                  interest in the acquiree; less
                         • the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired

                                  and liabilities assumed.

                         When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the
                         income statements.

                         For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling
                         interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s
                         identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.

                         Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities,
                         that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.

                 (iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests

                         The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not
                         result in a loss of control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling
                         interest holders. Any difference between the Group’s share of net assets before and after
                         the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or against Group
                         reserves.

                                                                            103 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

                          (iv) Loss of control

                                  Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities
                                  of the former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity
                                  related to the former subsidiary from the consolidated balance sheets. Any surplus or
                                  deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in the income statements. If the Group
                                  retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
                                  at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted
                                  investee or as a financial asset depending on the level of influence retained.

                          (v) Associates

                                  Associates are entities, including unincorporated entities, in which the Group has significant
                                  influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.

                                  Investments in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements
                                  using the equity method less any impairment losses. The cost of the investments includes
                                  transaction costs. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of
                                  profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates, after adjustments if any,
                                  to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
                                  influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.

                                  When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount
                                  of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition
                                  of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or
                                  has made payments on behalf of the associate.

                                  When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained
                                  interest in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured
                                  at fair value and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset.
                                  The difference between the fair value of any retained interest plus proceeds from the
                                  interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
                                  method is discontinued is recognised in the income statements.

                                  When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of
                                  significant influence, any retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising
                                  from the decrease in interest is recognised in the income statements. Any gains or losses
                                  previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately
                                  to the income statements if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to the
                                  income statements on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.

                                  Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
                                  impairment losses. The cost of investments includes transaction costs.

104 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

                 (vi) Joint arrangements

                         Joint arrangements are arrangements of which the Group has joint control, established by
                         contracts requiring unanimous consent for decisions about the activities that significantly
                         affect the arrangements’ returns.

                         Joint arrangements are classified and accounted for as follows:

                         • A joint arrangement is classified as “joint operation” when the Group or the Company
                                  has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an arrangement.
                                  The Group and the Company account for each of its share of the assets, liabilities
                                  and transactions, including its share of those held or incurred jointly with the other
                                  investors, in relation to the joint operation.

                         • A joint arrangement is classified as “joint venture” when the Group or the Company
                                  has rights only to the net assets of the arrangement. The Group accounts for its
                                  interest in the joint venture using the equity method.

                         Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
                         cost of investment includes transaction costs.

                 (vii) Non-controlling interests

                         Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary
                         not attributable directly or indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented
                         in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of changes in equity within equity,
                         separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-controlling interests
                         in the results of the Group is presented in the consolidated income statements and other
                         comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income
                         for the year between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.

                         Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-
                         controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit
                         balance.

                 (viii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                         Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising
                         from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
                         statements.

                         Unrealised gains arising from transactions with an equity accounted associate and a joint
                         venture are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
                         investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only
                         to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.

                                                                            105 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (b) Foreign currency

                          (i) Foreign currency transactions

                                  Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of
                                  Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.

                                  Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting
                                  period are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.

                                  Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated
                                  at the end of the reporting date, except for those that are measured at fair value which are
                                  retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value
                                  was determined.

                                  Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income
                                  statements, except for differences arising on the retranslation of equity instruments where
                                  they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or a financial instrument
                                  designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.

                                  In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable
                                  from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the
                                  foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item
                                  are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised
                                  in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation
                                  reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.

                          (ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)

                                  The assets and liabilities of operations denominated in functional currencies other than
                                  RM, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated
                                  to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period, except for goodwill and fair
                                  value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the date
                                  when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the
                                  Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations, excluding foreign operations
                                  in hyperinflationary economies, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of the
                                  transactions.

                                  Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and
                                  accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve (“FCTR”) in equity. However, if
                                  the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share
                                  of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign
                                  operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost,
                                  the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign operation is reclassified to the
                                  income statements as part of the gain or loss on disposal.

                                  When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a
                                  foreign operation, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to
                                  non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investments in
                                  an associate or joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining significant
                                  influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified
                                  to the income statements.

106 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (c) Financial instruments

                 (i) Recognition and initial measurement

                         A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheets when, and only
                         when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
                         instrument.

                         A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component)
                         or a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair
                         value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition
                         or issuance. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially
                         measured at the transaction price.

                         An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host
                         contract is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative
                         is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the
                         host contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the
                         event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance
                         with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.

                 (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement

                         Financial assets

                         Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
                         subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its
                         business model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets
                         are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the
                         business model.

                         (a) Amortised cost

                                  Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business
                                  model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and
                                  its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
                                  payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The
                                  financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent
                                  to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using
                                  the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
                                  Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised
                                  in the income statements. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the
                                  income statements.

                                  Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross
                                  carrying amount except for credit impaired financial assets (see Note 2(l)(i)) where
                                  the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.

                                                                            107 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (c) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                          (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)

                                  Financial assets (cont’d)

                                  (b) Fair value through profit or loss

                                           All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other
                                           comprehensive income as described above are measured at fair value through
                                           profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a derivative that
                                           is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group
                                           or the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets
                                           the requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other
                                           comprehensive income as at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates
                                           or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise.

                                           Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
                                           measured at their fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend
                                           income, are recognised in the income statements.

                                  All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss and equity
                                  investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, are subject to
                                  impairment assessment (see Note 2(l)(i)).

                                  Financial liabilities

                                  The categories of financial liabilities at initial recognition are as follows:

                                  (a) Fair value through profit or loss

                                           Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are
                                           derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a
                                           designated and effective hedging instrument), contingent consideration in a
                                           business combination and financial liabilities that are specifically designated into
                                           this category upon initial recognition.

                                           On initial recognition, the Group or the Company may irrevocably designate a
                                           financial liability that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised
                                           cost as at fair value through profit or loss:

                                           (a) if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that
                                                    would otherwise arise;

108 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (c) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                 (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)

                         Financial liabilities (cont’d)

                         (a) Fair value through profit or loss (cont’d)

                                  (b) a group of financial liabilities or assets and financial liabilities is managed
                                          and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a
                                          documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about
                                          the group is provided internally on that basis to the Group’s key management
                                          personnel; or

                                  (c) if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host is not
                                          a financial asset in the scope of MFRS 9, where the embedded derivative
                                          significantly modifies the cash flows and separation is not prohibited.

                                  Financial liabilities categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
                                  measured at their fair value with gains or losses, including any interest expense are
                                  recognised in the income statements.

                                  For financial liabilities where it is designated as fair value through profit or loss upon
                                  initial recognition, the Group and the Company recognise the amount of change
                                  in fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to change in credit risk in
                                  the other comprehensive income and remaining amount of the change in fair value
                                  in the income statements, unless the treatment of the effects of changes in the
                                  liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch.

                         (b) Amortised cost

                                  Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are
                                  subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

                                  Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the
                                  income statements. Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the
                                  income statements.

                 (iii) Derecognition

                         A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights
                         to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or transferred, or control of the asset
                         is not retained or substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial
                         asset are transferred to another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference
                         between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the sum of consideration received
                         (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) is recognised in the
                         income statements.

                                                                            109 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (c) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                          (iii) Derecognition (cont’d)

                                  A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation
                                  specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. A financial liability is also
                                  derecognised when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are
                                  substantially different, in which case, a new financial liability based on modified terms is
                                  recognised at fair value. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the
                                  carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and
                                  the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
                                  recognised in the income statements.

                          (iv) Offsetting

                                  Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the
                                  balance sheets when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally
                                  enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis
                                  or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.

              (d) Property, plant and equipment

                          (i) Recognition and measurement

                                  Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
                                  depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

                                  Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
                                  and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
                                  its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the
                                  site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the
                                  cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised
                                  in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. Cost may also include
                                  transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
                                  purchases of property, plant and equipment.

                                  When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful
                                  lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and
                                  equipment.

                                  The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined
                                  by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and
                                  equipment and is recognised net within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively,
                                  in the income statements.

110 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

(d) Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

(ii) Subsequent costs

The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is
recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic
benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group or the Company, and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is
derecognised to the income statements. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
plant and equipment are recognised in the income statements as incurred.

(iii) Depreciation

Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components
of individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from
the remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.

Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.

The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:

• buildings and jetty                       10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment  4 - 20 years
                                            (2019: 4 - 10 years)
• motor vehicles                            5 - 10 years

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period and adjusted as appropriate.

(e) Leases

        (i) Deﬁnition of a lease

                 A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an
                 identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a
                 contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses
                 whether:

                 • the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly
                         or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the
                         capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution
                         right, then the asset is not identified;

                 • the customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from
                         use of the asset throughout the period of use; and

                                            111 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (e) Leases (cont’d)

                          (i) Deﬁnition of a lease (cont’d)

                                  • the customer has the right to direct the use of the asset. The customer has this right
                                           when it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and
                                           for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and
                                           for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the customer has the right to
                                           direct the use of the asset if either the customer has the right to operate the asset;
                                           or the customer designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what
                                           purpose it will be used.

                                  At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group
                                  allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on
                                  the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of land and buildings in
                                  which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate non-lease components and will
                                  instead account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.

                          (ii) Recognition and initial measurement

                                  (a) As a lessee

                                           The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease
                                           commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which
                                           comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments
                                           made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred
                                           and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore
                                           the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
                                           received.

                                           The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments
                                           that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate
                                           implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the respective
                                           Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
                                           incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.

                                           Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

                                           • fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentives
                                                    receivable;

                                           • variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured
                                                    using the index or rate as at the commencement date;

                                           • amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
                                           • the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably

                                                    certain to exercise; and
                                           • penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably

                                                    certain not to terminate early.

112 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (e) Leases (cont’d)

                 (ii) Recognition and initial measurement (cont’d)

                         (a) As a lessee (cont’d)

                                  The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or
                                  usage of the underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are
                                  recognised in the income statements in the period in which the performance or use
                                  occurs.

                                  The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
                                  for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of
                                  low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these
                                  leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

                         (b) As a lessor

                                  When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each
                                  lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.

                                  To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease
                                  transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the
                                  underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a finance lease; if not, then it
                                  is an operating lease.

                                  If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies
                                  MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone
                                  selling prices.

                                  When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head
                                  lease and the sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease
                                  with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with
                                  reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the
                                  Group applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sublease as an
                                  operating lease.

                 (iii) Subsequent measurement

                         (a) As a lessee

                                  The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method
                                  from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-
                                  of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use
                                  assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment.
                                  In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if
                                  any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.

                                                                            113 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (e) Leases (cont’d)

                          (iii) Subsequent measurement (cont’d)

                                  (a) As a lessee (cont’d)

                                           The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
                                           It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a
                                           change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments,
                                           if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable
                                           under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether
                                           it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.

                                           When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the
                                           carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in the income statements if
                                           the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.

                                  (b) As a lessor

                                           The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income
                                           on a straight-line basis over the lease term as part of “other income”.

              (f) Intangible assets

                          (i) Computer software

                                  Computer software acquired by the Group is stated at cost less any accumulated
                                  amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.

                                  The cost capitalised includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition
                                  of the software licenses and any other development costs directly attributable to the
                                  preparation of the computer software for its intended use.

                          (ii) Subsequent expenditure

                                  Subsequent expenditure on computer software is capitalised only when it increases the
                                  future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other
                                  expenditure is recognised in the income statements as incurred.

                          (iii) Amortisation

                                  Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-
                                  line basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.

                                  The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.

                                  Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each
                                  reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate.

114 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (g) Investment properties

                 Investment properties carried at cost
                 Investment properties are properties which are owned or right-of-use asset held under a lease
                 contract to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary
                 course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative
                 purposes. Investment properties initially and subsequently measured at cost are accounted for
                 similarly to property, plant and equipment.

       (h) Inventories

                 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories
                 is calculated using the weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred in
                 acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing
                 them to their existing location and condition. In the case of work-in-progress and finished goods,
                 cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
                 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the
                 estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

       (i) Asset held for sale

                 Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale or distribution to
                 owners rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale.
                 Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with
                 the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of
                 their carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.

       (j) Biological assets

                 Biological assets comprising of parent stock, hatching eggs and broiler inventories are measured
                 on initial recognition and at the end of each financial year, at fair value less costs to sell. Cost to
                 sell include the incremental selling costs, including estimated costs of transport but excludes
                 finance costs and income taxes.
                 A gain or loss arising on initial recognition of a biological asset at fair value less costs to sell
                 and from a change in fair value less costs to sell of a biological asset is included in the income
                 statements for the period in which it arises.

                                                                            115 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (k) Cash and cash equivalents

                          Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly
                          liquid investments which have an insignificant risk of changes in fair value with original maturities
                          of three months or less, and are used by the Group and the Company in the management of their
                          short term commitments.

              (l) Impairment

                          (i) Financial assets

                                  The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses
                                  (“ECLs”) on financial assets measured at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a
                                  probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                                  The Group and the Company measure loss allowances for trade receivables at an amount
                                  equal to lifetime expected credit loss.

                                  When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly
                                  since initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the
                                  Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available
                                  without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information
                                  and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
                                  and including forward-looking information, where available.

                                  Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible
                                  default events over the expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses
                                  are the portion of expected credit losses that result from default events that are possible
                                  within the 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
                                  estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the
                                  Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                                  The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables
                                  using a provision matrix with reference to historical credit loss experience.

                                  An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised
                                  in the income statements and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use
                                  of an allowance account.

                                  At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets
                                  carried at amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one
                                  or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the
                                  financial asset have occurred.

116 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (l) Impairment (cont’d)

                 (i) Financial assets (cont’d)

                         The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the
                         extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the
                         Group or the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of
                         income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the
                         write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement
                         activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery
                         of amounts due.

                 (ii) Other assets

                         The carrying amounts of other assets (except for deferred tax assets, inventories, biological
                         assets and non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale) are reviewed
                         at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of
                         impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

                         For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group
                         of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of
                         the cash inflows of other assets or cash-generating units.

                         The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in
                         use and its fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
                         cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
                         current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset
                         or cash-generating unit.

                         An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-
                         generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.

                         Impairment losses are recognised in the income statements. Impairment losses recognised
                         in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
                         goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) and then
                         to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of
                         cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.

                         Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting
                         period for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment
                         loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
                         recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is
                         reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
                         amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no
                         impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to the
                         income statements in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.

                                                                            117 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (m) Equity instruments

                          Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
                          subsequently.
                          (i) Issue expenses

                                  Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised
                                  as a deduction from equity.
                          (ii) Ordinary shares
                                  Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

              (n) Compound ﬁnancial instruments

                          A compound financial instrument is a non-derivative financial instrument that contains both a
                          liability and an equity component.
                          Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible notes that can be
                          converted to share capital at the option of the holder, when the number of shares to be issued
                          does not vary with changes in their fair value.
                          The proceeds are first allocated to the liability component, determined based on the fair value of
                          a similar liability that does not have a conversion feature or similar associated equity component.
                          The residual amount is allocated as the equity component. Any directly attributable transaction
                          costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying
                          amounts.
                          Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument
                          is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component of a
                          compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
                          Interest and losses and gains relating to the financial liability are recognised in the income
                          statements. On conversion, the financial liability is reclassified to equity; no gain or loss is
                          recognised on conversion.

              (o) Employee beneﬁts

                          (i) Short-term employee beneﬁts
                                  Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid
                                  annual leave and sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as
                                  the related service is provided.

118 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (o) Employee beneﬁts (cont’d)

                 (i) Short-term employee beneﬁts (cont’d)

                         A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus
                         or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay
                         this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can
                         be estimated reliably.

                 (ii) State plans

                         The Group’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to the income statements
                         in the financial year to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the
                         Company has no further payment obligations.

       (p) Revenue and other income

                 (i) Revenue

                         Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer
                         in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected
                         on behalf of third parties. The Group or the Company recognises revenue when (or as) it
                         transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred when (or
                         as) the customer obtains control of the asset.

                         The Group or the Company transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless
                         one of the following over time criteria is met:

                         (a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the
                                  Group or the Company performs;

                         (b) the Group’s or the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the
                                  customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or

                         (c) the Group’s or the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an
                                  alternative use and the Group or the Company has an enforceable right to payment
                                  for performance completed to date.

                 (ii) Rental income

                         Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statements on a
                         straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rental income from sub-leased property is
                         recognised as “other income”.

                                                                            119 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notes to the
     Financial Statements (cont’d)

      2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

              (p) Revenue and other income (cont’d)

                          (iii) Dividend income

                                  Dividend income is recognised in the income statements on the date that the Group’s or
                                  the Company’s right to receive payment is established.

                          (iv) Interest income

                                  Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method in the
                                  income statements.

              (q) Borrowing costs

                          General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or
                          production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of
                          time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets,
                          until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.

                          The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
                          expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that
                          are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation
                          of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to
                          prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

                          All other borrowing costs are recognised in income statements in the period in which they are
                          incurred.

              (r) Income tax

                          Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are
                          recognised in the income statements except to the extent that it relates to items recognised
                          directly in equity or other comprehensive income.

                          Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year,
                          using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any
                          adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.

                          Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between
                          the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and their tax bases. Deferred
                          tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill,
                          the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination
                          and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the
                          tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based
                          on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

120 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

       (r) Income tax (cont’d)

                 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
                 tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the
                 same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and
                 assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.

                 A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
                 will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are
                 reviewed at the end of each reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
                 probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.

                 Unutilised reinvestment allowance, being tax incentives that is not a tax base of an asset, is
                 recognised as a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that the future taxable profits
                 will be available against the unutilised tax incentive can be utilised.

       (s) Earnings per ordinary share

                 The Group presents basic earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).

                 Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company
                 by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.

                 Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
                 and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held,
                 for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise redeemable convertible
                 unsecured loan stock (“RCULS”) and Warrants.

       (t) Operating segments

                 An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from
                 which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate
                 to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Operating segment results are
                 reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker, to make decisions about resources
                 to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
                 information is available.

       (u) Contingencies

                 Contingent liabilities

                 Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount
                 cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position
                 and is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is
                 remote. Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-
                 occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the
                 probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.

                                                                            121 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)

(v) Fair value measurements

Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.

For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling
it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data
as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on
the input used in the valuation technique as follows:

Level 1:  quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
          Group can access at the measurement date.

Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
          asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

Level 3:  inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is,
          unobservable inputs).

The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.

122 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment

Group                      Land    Buildings            Plant,    Motor      Capital       Total
                        RM’000            and    machinery,     vehicles   work-in-     RM’000
                                         jetty  ﬁxtures and     RM’000     progress
                                                 equipment                  RM’000
                                     RM’000
                                                      RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2019       31,682     509,993      596,301         43,033     326,686      1,507,695
Additions                       -     5,032      10,169          3,146     194,830        213,177
Disposals                       -           -        (209)         (856)                     (1,065)
Write-off                       -    (2,674)      (8,136)          (742)             -     (11,606)
Transfers                       -                60,114          1,541            (54)              -
Effect of movements in              44,723                                 (106,378)
                                -                 (1,207)
 exchange rates                         (731)                   (96)       (9)          (2,043)

At 31 December 2019 /   31,682     556,343      657,032         46,026     415,075      1,706,158
 1 January 2020                 -     9,902      37,207          3,309       19,337         69,755
                                -           -        (199)         (389)             -         (588)
Additions                       -       (414)     (2,187)             (4)            -       (2,605)
Disposals                       -                                1,739                              -
Write-off                          216,852      108,788                    (327,379)
Transfers                       -
Effect of movements in               (1,290)      (2,159)       (199)      (46)         (3,694)

 exchange rates

At 31 December 2020     31,682     781,393      798,482         50,482     106,987 1,769,026

                                                                123 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

Group                                                   Land  Buildings            Plant,    Motor        Capital      Total
                                                     RM’000          and    machinery,     vehicles     work-in-   RM’000
                                                                    jetty  ﬁxtures and     RM’000       progress
                                                                            equipment                    RM’000
                                                                RM’000                       34,892
                                                                                RM’000               -

Depreciation and                                     -        165,240      363,515           34,892     -          563,647
 impairment loss                                                              1,209           2,583
                                                     -        3                                 (840)   -          1,212
At 1 January 2019                                                                               (742)
 Accumulated depreciation                            -        165,243      364,724                   -  -          564,859
 Accumulated impairment loss
                                                     -        17,532       44,422                 (59)  -          64,537
Depreciation for the year
Disposals                                            -        -            (179)             35,834     -          (1,019)
Write-off                                                                                            -
Write-off – impairment loss                          -        (2,663)      (7,433)                      -          (10,838)
Effect of movements in                                                                       35,834
                                                     -        -            (612)              3,436     -          (612)
 exchange rates                                                                                 (389)
                                                     -        (306)        (716)                   (3)  -          (1,081)

At 31 December 2019/                                 -        179,803      399,609              (109)   -          615,246
 1 January 2020                                                                 597
 Accumulated depreciation                            -        3                              38,769     -          600
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                                         -
                                                     -        179,806      400,206                      -          615,846
Depreciation for the year                                                                    38,769
Disposals                                            -        21,667       42,252                       -          67,355
Write-off                                                                                     8,141
Effect of movements in                               -        -            (198)                        -          (587)
                                                                                             10,192
 exchange rates                                      -        (244)        (1,634)           11,713     -          (1,881)

At 31 December 2020                                  -        (551)        (1,325)                      -          (1,985)
 Accumulated depreciation
 Accumulated impairment loss                         -        200,675      438,704                      -          678,148
                                                                                597
                                                     -        3                                         -          600
                                                                           439,301
                                                     -        200,678                                   -          678,748

Carrying amounts                                     31,682   344,750      231,577                      326,686    942,836
At 1 January 2019
                                                     31,682   376,537      256,826                      415,075    1,090,312
At 31 December 2019/                                 31,682   580,715      359,181                      106,987    1,090,278
 1 January 2020

At 31 December 2020

124 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

Company                    Buildings           Plant,    Motor      Capital      Total
                           and jetty    machinery,     vehicles   work-in-   RM’000
                             RM’000    ﬁxtures and     RM’000     progress
                                        equipment                  RM’000    438,723
                                                                              30,656
                                            RM’000                                (270)
                                                                                  (969)
Cost                       204,794     195,244         12,747     25,938              -
At 1 January 2019               973       4,054            125    25,504
Additions                           -        (76)         (194)              468,140
Disposals                           -       (269)         (647)           -   16,535
Write-off                                 7,157                -       (53)       (447)
Transfers                     3,258                               (10,415)        (328)
                                       206,110                                        -
At 31 December 2019/       209,025        2,792        12,031     40,974
 1 January 2020                     5       (143)          642    13,096     483,900
                                    -       (326)         (304)
Additions                           -     2,455              (2)          -  197,391
Disposals                           -                          -          -   18,300
Write-off                              210,888                    (2,455)         (260)
Transfers                  209,030                     12,367                     (887)
                                                                  51,615
At 31 December 2020                                                          214,544
                                                                              15,738
Depreciation               56,888      128,608         11,895     -               (424)
At 1 January 2019           4,147       13,798                                    (310)
Depreciation for the year          -         (66)      355        -
Disposals                          -        (240)                            229,548
Write-off                                              (194)      -
                           61,035      142,100                               241,332
At 31 December 2019/        4,169       11,267         (647)      -
 1 January 2020                    -        (120)                            253,596
                                   -        (308)      11,409     -          254,352
Depreciation for the year
Disposals                  65,204      152,939         302        -
Write-off
                                                       (304)      -
At 31 December 2020
                                                       (2)        -

                                                       11,405     -

Carrying amounts           147,906     66,636          852        25,938
At 1 January 2019
                           147,990     64,010          622        40,974
At 31 December 2019/       143,826     57,949
 1 January 2020                                        962        51,615

At 31 December 2020

                                                       125 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

3.1 Included in additions of the Group are interest expense capitalised amounting to RM2,358,000
        (2019: RM12,277,000).

3.2 During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Group and the Company conducted an
        operational review and as a result, there was a change in the expected useful lives of certain
        assets. The effect of these changes on depreciation expense, in current and future periods is as
        follows:

                                                     2020  2021  2022          2023   2024      Later

                                                     RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Group                                                (8,442) (7,931) (7,388) (5,756) (3,853) 33,370
(Decrease)/Increase in

 depreciation expense

Company                                              (2,289) (2,286) (2,226)   (899)      528   7,172
(Decrease)/Increase in

 depreciation expense

4. Right-of-use assets                                           Leasehold     Buildings           Total
                                                                         land    RM’000         RM’000
        Group
        At 1 January 2019                                            RM’000
        Additions
        Depreciation for the year                                41,962               7,151     49,113
        Transfer to asset classified as held for sale                  86                188        274
        Effect of movements in exchange rates
        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020                        (1,133)             (2,315)    (3,448)
        Additions                                                (14,821)                    -  (14,821)
        Depreciation for the year                                                            -
        Effect of movements in exchange rates                         (31)                           (31)
        At 31 December 2020                                                           5,024
                                                                 26,063               2,566     31,087
                                                                       15             (2,306)     2,581
                                                                                                 (3,202)
                                                                     (896)                94         (46)
                                                                     (140)
                                                                                      5,378     30,420
                                                                 25,042

126 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)                        Leasehold     Buildings     Total
                                                               land    RM’000   RM’000
        Company
        At 1 January 2019                                  RM’000
        Additions
        Depreciation for the year                      19,468        5,357      24,825
        Transfer to asset classified as held for sale          -        151         151
        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020
        Additions                                          (365)     (1,763)     (2,128)
        Depreciation for the year                      (14,821)             -   (14,821)
        At 31 December 2020
                                                         4,282       3,745        8,027
                                                           503       1,594        2,097
                                                           (207)     (1,692)     (1,899)

                                                         4,578       3,647        8,225

The Group and the Company lease buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that
typically run for a period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.

Legal titles to certain leasehold land of the Group with a carrying amount of RM5,950,000
(2019: RM6,059,000) have yet to be received from the state authorities.

4.1 Extension options

        Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
        by the Group. Where applicable, the Group seeks to include extension options in new leases to
        provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and
        not by the lessors. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain
        to exercise the extension options. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to
        exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
        its control.

        As at 31 December 2020, the Group has included all potential future cash flows of exercising the
        extension options in the lease liabilities.

4.2 Signiﬁcant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease

        The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it
        is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and
        circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset
        if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.

        The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing
        rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates
        before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term,
        security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.

                                                       127 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

5. Intangible assets                                 Computer software

        Cost                                         Group Company
        At 1 January 2019
        Additions                                    RM’000     RM’000
        Effect of movements in exchange rates
                                                     11,906     5,962
        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020               135      129
        Additions                                         (30)        -
        Effect of movements in exchange rates
                                                     12,011     6,091
        At 31 December 2020                           2,989         81
                                                          (59)        -
        Amortisation
        At 1 January 2019                            14,941     6,172
        Amortisation for the year
        Effect of movements in exchange rates         9,329     5,454
                                                         977      205
        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020                (28)        -
        Amortisation for the year
        Effect of movements in exchange rates        10,278     5,659
                                                      1,055       236
        At 31 December 2020                               (48)        -

        Carrying amounts                             11,285     5,895
        At 1 January 2019
                                                     2,577      508
        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020
                                                     1,733      432
        At 31 December 2020
                                                     3,656      277

5.1 Intangible assets

        Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
        of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
        the computer software for its intended use.

5.2 Amortisation

        The amortisation is allocated to the income statements on a straight-line basis over the intangible
        assets’ estimated useful lives.

128 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
6. Investment properties                     Freehold    Buildings     Total
                                                   land    RM’000   RM’000
        Group
                                              RM’000
        Cost
        At 1 January 2019/31 December 2019/  3,943       2,836      6,779

          1 January 2020/31 December 2020          -     1,669      1,669
                                                   -         57         57
        Depreciation                               -
        At 1 January 2019                          -     1,726      1,726
        Depreciation for the year                  -         56         56

        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020   3,943       1,782      1,782
        Depreciation for the year            3,943
                                             3,943       1,167      5,110
        At 31 December 2020                              1,110      5,053
                                                         1,054      4,997
        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2019                    3,672       2,836      6,508

        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020         -     1,669      1,669
                                                   -         57         57
        At 31 December 2020                        -
                                                   -     1,726      1,726
        Company                                    -         56         56

        Cost                                 3,672       1,782      1,782
        At 1 January 2019/31 December 2019/  3,672
                                             3,672       1,167      4,839
          1 January 2020/31 December 2020                1,110      4,782
                                                         1,054      4,726
        Depreciation
        At 1 January 2019
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2020

        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2019

        At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020

        At 31 December 2020

                                             129 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

6. Investment properties (cont’d)

The following are recognised in the income statements in respect of investment properties:

                                                              Group                        Company

                                                     2020            2019                  2020     2019

                                                     RM’000          RM’000                RM’000   RM’000

Lease income                                         356                              363  387      394
Direct operating expenses:
- income generating investment                       45                               44   52       52

   properties

Fair value information
Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:

                                                              Group                        Company

                                                     2020            2019                  2020     2019

                                                     RM’000          RM’000                RM’000   RM’000

Level 3                                              123,485         123,485               118,855  118,855
Freehold land and buildings

Level 3 fair value

The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.

   Description of valuation                            Signiﬁcant unobservable         Inter-relationship between
 technique and inputs used                                          inputs              signiﬁcant unobservable

Comparison method of                                 Recent transactions of similar        inputs and fair value
valuation which entails                              properties at or near reporting           measurements
comparing the property with                          period with similar land usage,
similar properties that were                         land size and location.          The estimated fair value
sold recently and those that                                                          would increase/(decrease) if
are currently offered for sale in                                                     recent transactions of similar
the vicinity.                                                                         properties at or near reporting
                                                                                      period with similar land usage
                                                                                      and land size were higher/
                                                                                      (lower).

Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value

The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison method. The
comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of comparable properties in
the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location, size and shape of land, age and
condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other relevant characteristics.

130 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries                                        Company

        At cost                                                       2020      2019
        Unquoted shares
        Less: Accumulated impairment losses                           RM’000    RM’000

                                                                      393,395   393,395
                                                                       (2,026)   (2,026)

                                                                      391,369   391,369

The subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:

                                                                       Effective
                                                                      ownership

                                                                        interest

Name of subsidiary             Principal activities                   2020      2019
                                                                       %         %
Dindings Soya & Multifeeds      Manufacture and sale of animal feeds
 Sdn. Berhad                    and sale of related raw materials     100       100

Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd.         Trading in corn, soybean meal and     51        51
                                other feed ingredients
Dindings Poultry Development                                          100^ 100^
 Centre Sdn. Bhd.               Breeding and sale of day-old chicks,
                                poultry grow-out farm, purchase       100       100
Dindings Poultry Processing     and contract farming activities and
 Sdn. Bhd.                      manufacture and sale of animal feeds  70        70
                                and sale of related raw materials
Vimaflour Ltd *                                                       100       100
 (incorporated in Vietnam)      Processing and sale of poultry
                                products
MFM International Ltd. #
 (incorporated in the British   Milling and selling wheat flour
 Virgin Islands)                together with its allied products

MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.          Investment holding
MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd.
Semakin Dinamik Sdn. Bhd.      Investment holding                     100       100
MFM Ltd.                       Dormant
                               Dormant                                100       100
                               Dormant
                                                                      100       100

                                                                      100       100

                                                   131 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

                                                                                         Effective
                                                                                        ownership

                                                                                          interest

Name of subsidiary                                   Principal activities               2020             2019
                                                                                         %                %

Dindings Broiler Breeder Farm                        Dormant                            100              100
 Sdn. Bhd.

Syarikat Pengangkutan Lumut                          Dormant                            100              100
 Sdn. Bhd.

Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. Dormant                                              60               60

Dindings Grand Parent Farm                           Dormant                            100              100
 Sdn. Bhd.

AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd.                                     Dormant                            100              100

Subsidiary of MFM                                    Milling and selling wheat flour    100              100
 International Ltd.                                  together with its allied products

Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.*
 (incorporated in Vietnam)

* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International

# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT

^ One (1) unit of ordinary share is held by a third party which has no voting rights nor entitled to any
        dividends, rights, allotments or other forms of distribution.

7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries

The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment and the principal
activities and the proportion of ownership interest held by non-controlling interests are disclosed
in the above. The Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as
follows:

                                                              Subsidiaries                       Other      Total
                                                                         with           subsidiaries     RM’000

                                                                   material                        with
                                                                          NCI             immaterial

                                                                    RM’000                         NCI
                                                                                              RM’000

2020                                                                       89,089       4,959            94,048
Carrying amount of NCI

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI                            14,006       (4)              14,002

132 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)

                                          Subsidiaries                   Other      Total
                                                     with       subsidiaries     RM’000

                                               material                    with   86,686
                                                      NCI         immaterial
                                                                                  16,779
                                                RM’000                     NCI
                                                                      RM’000

2019                                                    81,723  4,963
Carrying amount of NCI

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated

to NCI                                                  16,783  (4)

                                                                Subsidiaries with

                                                                material NCI

                                                                2020             2019

                                                                RM’000           RM’000

Summarised ﬁnancial information before                            66,521           73,095
 intra-group elimination                                        584,725          579,846
                                                                (380,661)        (406,485)
As at 31 December
Non-current assets                                              270,585          246,456
Current assets
Current liabilities                                             1,237,602        1,178,166
                                                                    50,159           52,599
Net assets                                                          46,262           50,694

Year ended 31 December                                              49,542           75,594
Revenue                                                            (69,126)         (31,921)
Profit for the year
Total comprehensive income                                           (6,527)             788

Cash flows from operating activities                               (26,111)          44,461
Cash flows used in investing activities
Cash flows (used in)/from financing activities                       6,640            4,316

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Dividends paid to NCI

                                                        133 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

8. Investment in a joint venture

                                                               Group            Company

                                                     2020             2019      2020        2019

                                                     RM’000           RM’000    RM’000      RM’000

At cost                                              192,865          154,086   192,865     154,086
Unquoted shares                                      (28,127)         (23,174)           -           -
Share of post-acquisition reserves
                                                                                192,865     154,086
                                                     164,738          130,912

PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“PT Bungasari”), the only joint venture in which the Group
participates, is principally engaged in the milling and selling of wheat flour together with its allied
products in Indonesia.

During the year, the Company increased its investment in PT Bungasari by subscribing additional 9,300
shares with a nominal value of IDR9,390,000 per share based on the proportionate shareholding for a
cash consideration of RM38,779,000.

The following table summarises the financial information of PT Bungasari, as adjusted for any differences
in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to the carrying
amount of the Group’s interest in PT Bungasari, which is accounted for using the equity method.

                                                                                    Group   2019
                                                                                2020           %

                                                                                   %

Percentage of ownership interest                                                30          30

                                                                                RM’000      RM’000

Summarised ﬁnancial information                                                 740,479     406,357
As at 31 December                                                               538,491     648,094
Non-current assets                                                               (81,869)    (99,066)
Current assets                                                                  (647,974)   (519,011)
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities                                                             549,127     436,374

Net assets                                                                      1,148,037   1,180,264
                                                                                     3,225      47,070
Year ended 31 December
Revenue
Profit for the year

134 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
8. Investment in a joint venture (cont’d)                    Group

        Reconciliation of net assets to carrying amount      RM’000    RM’000
          as at 31 December
                                                             164,738   130,912
        Group’s share of net assets                          164,738   130,912
        Carrying amount in the balance sheet
        Group’s share of results for year ended 31 December       967   14,121
        Group’s share of profit from continuing operations

Contingent liabilities

The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD18.6 million (2019:
USD12.6 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint venture company,
PT Bungasari. As at 31 December 2020, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to USD9.2
million (2019: USD7.0 million).

In 2017, the Indonesian tax authority having performed tax audit in relation to its value-added tax (“VAT”)
has issued a notification letter imposing a total sum of RM17.1 million (additional tax assessment of
RM8.55 million and penalty of RM8.55 million) on PT Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for the
year 2015. In 2018, the Indonesian tax authority has issued another notification letter imposing a total
sum of RM16.8 million (additional tax assessment of RM8.4 million and penalty of RM8.4 million) on PT
Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for the year 2016. In 2019, the Indonesian tax authority has
issued another notification letter imposing a total sum of RM20.3 million (additional tax assessment
of RM10.6 million and penalty of RM9.7 million) on PT Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for
the year 2017. The Group’s 30% share of the potential liabilities are RM5.1 million, RM5.0 million and
RM6.1 million for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively.

PT Bungasari submitted objection letter against the VAT notification letters, accompanied by a sum of
RM9.6 million payment to the tax authority.

In December 2020, the Tax Court in Indonesia ruled in favour of PT Bungasari for the years 2015 and
2016 and the overpayment in 2015 has been refunded in February 2021. Subsequently, the Director
General of Tax (Jakarta) filed a judiciary review at the Supreme Court to overturn the results of the Tax
Court for the years 2015 and 2016. The court case for year 2017 is still ongoing and the management is
confident that no additional provision is required at this juncture given that the court decision for years
2015 and 2016 were in favour of PT Bungasari.

                                                             135 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

9. Investment in an associate

                                                                                                    Group

                                                                                                 2020               2019

                                                                                                 RM’000        RM’000

At cost                                                                                          1,120              1,120
Unquoted shares                                                                                     (70)               (46)
Share of post-acquisition reserves
                                                                                                 1,050              1,074

Details of the associate are as follows:

                                                                                                          Effective

                                                                Principal place of       Nature           ownership
                                                                business/country          of the
Name of entity                                                  of incorporation      relationship        interest

                                                                                       Investment   2020            2019

                                                                                                          %          %

Freeman Properties Holding Ltd.                                 Cambodia                                  49         49

(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)

10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                                                     Assets                Liabilities                         Net

                                                     2020       2019       2020       2019          2020            2019

                                                     RM’000 RM’000         RM’000 RM’000         RM’000 RM’000

Group

Property, plant and                                          -          -  (78,216)   (51,948)      (78,216)        (51,948)
 equipment                                                   -          -   (2,693)    (6,554)       (2,693)         (6,554)
                                                      1,018      1,076             -          -       1,018           1,076
Right-of-use assets                                   4,637      5,758             -          -       4,637           5,758
Lease liabilities                                     8,905      7,101             -          -       8,905           7,101
RCULS                                                 9,914     11,676             -          -       9,914         11,676
Provisions
Reinvestment allowances                              54,148     24,534             -          -     54,148          24,534
Unabsorbed capital                                   17,686     19,529             -          -     17,686          19,529
                                                                               (668)   (4,065)                       (4,065)
 allowances                                              405            -                               (263)
Tax loss carry-forwards
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)                             96,713 69,674         (81,577)   (62,567)      15,136          7,107
Set off of tax                                       (78,242) (59,923)     78,242     59,923                -             -

Net tax assets/(liabilities)                         18,471     9,751      (3,335) (2,644) 15,136                   7,107

136 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

                                     Assets                 Liabilities                        Net

                                     2020     2019          2020       2019         2020            2019

                          RM’000 RM’000                     RM’000 RM’000           RM’000 RM’000

Company

Property, plant and                        -          -     (19,988)   (21,398)     (19,988)        (21,398)
 equipment                                 -          -      (1,974)    (1,926)      (1,974)         (1,926)
                                       917        922               -          -        917             922
Right-of-use assets                  4,637     5,758                -          -      4,637           5,758
Lease liabilities                    2,973     2,149                -          -      2,973           2,149
RCULS                                9,914    11,676                -          -      9,914         11,676
Provisions
Reinvestment allowances                    -   3,156                -          -            -         3,156
Unabsorbed capital                     186            -             -   (2,981)         186          (2,981)

 allowances
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)             18,627 23,661          (21,962)   (26,305)     (3,335)         (2,644)
Set off of tax                       (18,627) (23,661)      18,627     23,661              -               -

Net tax liabilities                  -        -             (3,335)    (2,644)      (3,335) (2,644)

Movement in temporary differences during the year

                                     Recognised Recognised             Recognised Recognised

                                     in income directly in             At in income directly in

                          At statements       equity 31.12.2019/ statements         equity                   At
                                                                                                  31.12.2020
                          1.1.2019 (Note 21) (Note 16) 1.1.2020 (Note 21) (Note 16)
                                                                                                      RM’000
                          RM’000 RM’000       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                  RM’000

Group

Property, plant and       (47,595)   (4,353)        -       (51,948)     (26,268)              - (78,216)
 equipment                        -  (6,554)        -        (6,554)       3,861
                                  -  1,076          -         1,076           (58)             -    (2,693)
Right-of-use assets               -           6,153           5,758       (1,086)
Lease liabilities                      (395)        -         7,101        1,804               -    1,018
RCULS                       6,062    1,039          -       11,676        (1,762)
Provisions                11,676                                                    (35)            4,637
Reinvestment allowances                    -        -       24,534       29,614
Unabsorbed capital        17,188                    -       19,529        (1,843)              -    8,905
                          14,670     7,346          -        (4,065)       3,802
 allowances                (5,079)   4,859                                                     -    9,914
Tax loss carry-forwards              1,014
Others                                                                                         -    54,148

                                                                                               -    17,686

                                                                                               -    (263)

                          (3,078)    4,032    6,153         7,107        8,064      (35) 15,136

                                                                       137 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

Movement in temporary differences during the year (cont’d)

                                                     Recognised Recognised            Recognised Recognised

                                                     in income directly in  At in income directly in

                         At statements                        equity 31.12.2019/ statements     equity                      At
                                                                                                                 31.12.2020
                         1.1.2019 (Note 21) (Note 16) 1.1.2020 (Note 21) (Note 16)
                                                                                                                     RM’000
                         RM’000 RM’000                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000              RM’000

Company

Property, plant and      (21,424)                        26         -       (21,398)  1,410                - (19,988)
 equipment                       -                   (1,926)        -        (1,926)     (48)
                                 -                                  -           922        (5)             -     (1,974)
Right-of-use assets              -                      922   6,153           5,758
Lease liabilities                                      (395)        -         2,149   (1,086)              -     917
RCULS                      2,432                       (283)        -       11,676       824
Provisions               11,676                                                                            (35)  4,637
Reinvestment allowances                                    -        -         3,156   (1,762)
Unabsorbed capital         7,327                                    -        (2,981)                       -     2,973
                          (3,112)                    (4,171)                          (3,156)
 allowances                                             131                           3,167                -     9,914
Others
                                                                                                           -     -

                                                                                                           -     186

                         (3,101)                     (5,696)  6,153         (2,644)   (656)                (35)  (3,335)

Unrecognised deferred tax assets

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences (stated
at gross):

                                                                                                Group

                                                                                                2020             2019

                                                                                      RM’000                     RM’000

Unabsorbed capital allowances                                                                    1,443           1,487
Tax loss carry-forwards                                                                         60,778           3,082
Other deductible temporary differences
                                                                                                     (39)          385

                                                                                                62,182           4,954

The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except for the
unutilised tax losses. Pursuant to the Amended Finance Bill 2018, the abovementioned tax loss carry-
forwards can only be carried forward up to 7 consecutive Years of Assessment as shown below:

                                                                                                Group

                                                                                                2020             2019

                                                                                      RM’000                     RM’000

Year of assessment in which unutilised tax losses will expire:                                  58,618           3,082
- 2026                                                                                                  -              -
- 2027                                                                                                                 -
- 2028                                                                                           2,160

                                                                                                60,778           3,082

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that
future taxable profit will be available against which subsidiaries of the Group can utilise the benefits
therefrom.

138 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives

                                                     Group              Company

                                   Note  2020               2019        2020      2019

                                         RM’000             RM’000      RM’000    RM’000

Trade receivables from

contracts with customers                 344,983            354,836      71,773    76,625
                                                  -                  -  475,265   448,164
Amount due from subsidiaries 11.1
                                          33,308             36,373        6,823     5,678
Other receivables                  11.2     2,032              2,363         913     1,130

Deposits                                          -

Derivatives at fair value through

profit or loss:

- future and option contracts                               540         -         -

                                         380,323            394,112     554,774   531,597

11.1 Amount due from subsidiaries

        The amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, repayable on demand and interest bearing
        (2019: interest bearing).

11.2 Other receivables

        Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM24,529,000
        (2019: RM24,564,000) and interest receivable from the deposits placed with licensed banks of
        RM4,391,000 (2019: RM3,422,000).

12. Inventories                                      Group              Company

        Raw materials                    2020               2019        2020      2019
        Finished goods
        Consumables                      RM’000             RM’000      RM’000    RM’000

                                         338,480            435,371     42,299    88,815
                                          54,162             41,586      6,886     7,982
                                          35,552             33,262      5,716     4,949

                                         428,194            510,219     54,901    101,746

                                                            139 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

13. Biological assets

                                                                             Group

                                                                             2020     2019

                                                                      RM’000          RM’000

Parent stock                                                                 21,245   25,845
Hatching eggs                                                                 6,128    5,084
Broiler inventories
                                                                             21,213   25,931

                                                                             48,586   56,860

The movement of biological assets can be analysed as follows:

                                                                      Group

                                Parent    Hatching                           Broiler
                                 stock
                               RM’000                          eggs inventories          Total
                                                                                      RM’000
                                          RM’000                      RM’000

2020                           25,845       5,084                       25,931          56,860
At 1 January                   30,007     85,913                      401,228         517,148
Additions                       (3,429)
Fair value measurement         (31,178)     1,035                           332          (2,062)
Depopulation                                      -                             -      (31,178)
Hatched and placed as DOC              -                                        -      (63,823)
Sales                                  -  (63,823)                                    (428,359)
                                          (22,081)                    (406,278)

At 31 December                 21,245                          6,128         21,213   48,586

2019                           18,167       9,557                       27,182          54,906
At 1 January                   30,453     90,652                      469,915         591,020
Additions                                  (3,721)
Fair value measurement           7,867                                   (5,236)         (1,090)
Depopulation                   (30,642)           -                             -      (30,642)
Hatched and placed as DOC                 (86,647)                              -      (86,647)
Sales                                  -                                              (470,687)
                                       -   (4,757)                    (465,930)

At 31 December                 25,845                          5,084         25,931   56,860

                 In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management’s estimates and judgments are based on
                 the following assumptions:

                 • parent stocks are expected to have a lifespan of up to 65 weeks;
                 • the expected selling prices of broiler inventories and hatching eggs are based on management’s

                          estimate of the current market price of broilers, whereas the expected selling price of parent
                          stock is based on management’s estimate of the historical average market price of broilers,
                          adjusted for abnormal market movements;
                 • the costs expected to arise throughout the life of the broiler inventories and parent stocks are
                          based on management’s estimate of average feed costs and other estimated farm costs; and
                 • hatching eggs will be hatched into day-old-chick based on the expected hatchability and broiler
                          inventories are expected to be sold upon reaching saleable weight.

140 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
13. Biological assets (cont’d)

        The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value of biological
        assets and the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation:

   Description of valuation          Signiﬁcant unobservable         Inter-relationship between
 technique and inputs used                        inputs              signiﬁcant unobservable

Parent stock                       • Projected selling price             inputs and fair value
The valuation method considers         of broiler based on                   measurements
the expected day-old-chicks to         management’s estimate
be produced and subsequently           by referencing the           • The higher the projected
reared to mature broiler for sale      historical average adjusted      selling price, the higher the
after taking into account the          for abnormal market              fair value.
estimated mortality rate.              movements.

                                   • Management’s estimate of       • The higher the incremental
                                       incremental feed and other       costs, the lower the fair
                                       variable costs expected to       value.
                                       be incurred throughout the
                                       life cycle.

Hatching eggs                      • Projected selling price        • The higher the projected
The valuation method considers         of broiler based on              selling price, the higher the
the expected day-old-chicks to         management’s estimate of         fair value.
be hatched and subsequently            the current market price.
reared to mature broiler for sale                                   • The higher the incremental
after taking into account the      • Management’s estimate of           costs, the lower the fair
estimated mortality rate.              incremental feed and other       value.
                                       variable costs expected to
                                       be incurred throughout the
                                       life cycle.

Broiler inventories                • Projected selling price        • The higher the projected
The valuation method                   of broiler based on              selling price, the higher the
considers the estimated                management’s estimate of         fair value.
selling price, weight and the          the current market price.
mortality rate of the broiler.

                                   • Management’s estimate of       • The higher the incremental
                                       incremental feed and other       costs, the lower the fair
                                       variable costs expected to       value.
                                       be incurred throughout the
                                       life cycle.

                                                                    141 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

13. Biological assets (cont’d)

Sensitivity analysis

Sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the biological assets to the possible changes in the key
assumptions are disclosed in the table below:

Effect on fair value of biological assets

                                                                                    Group

                                                                                    2020      2019

                                                                                    RM’000    RM’000

Projected selling price of broiler per kg:                                          23,241    27,282
- increased by 5%                                                                   (23,241)  (27,282)
- decreased by 5%

Number of day-old-chick produced:                                                   1,724     2,127
- increased by 5%                                                                   (1,724)   (2,127)
- decreased by 5%

Feed cost per kg:                                                                   (13,398)  (13,958)
- increased by 5%                                                                   13,398    13,958
- decreased by 5%

14. Cash and cash equivalents

                                                                    Group           Company

                                                     Note  2020            2019     2020      2019

                                                           RM’000          RM’000   RM’000    RM’000

Deposits placed with

licensed banks                                             344,207         268,350      421       414
                                                            38,013          43,572  10,987    15,645
Cash and bank balances                                      22,407          18,831  22,407    18,831

Liquid investments                                   14.1  404,627         330,753  33,815    34,890

14.1 Liquid investments

        The liquid investments represent investment in money market funds which have insignificant risk
        of change in value of the instruments.

142 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
15. Asset classiﬁed as held for sale

A leasehold land previously classified as the right-of use assets was presented as an asset held for sale
in prior year following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset on 21 October 2019. The
leasehold land was sold during the year.

                                                                                      Group and Company

                                                                                      2020        2019

                                                                                      RM’000      RM’000

Asset classiﬁed as held for sale                                                      -           14,821
Leasehold land

The carrying value of the asset held for sale in prior year was the same as its carrying value before it
was being reclassified from right-of-use assets.

16. Capital and reserves                                               Group and Company

        Share capital                                                  Number                      Number
                                                                                                  of shares
                                                     Note  Amount      of shares      Amount
                                                               2020                                     2019
                                                                       2020           2019               ’000
                                                           RM’000
                                                                       ’000           RM’000

Issued and fully paid:

Ordinary shares

At 1 January                                               527,571     1,004,095      377,501       550,285
                                                                    -              -  102,007       220,114
Issuance of Rights Shares         16.1                              -              -                137,571
                                                                                               -
Issuance of bonus shares                                      3,094         6,187      48,062         96,124
                                                                    -              -                         1
Conversion of RCULS                                                                            1
                                                           530,665     1,010,282                  1,004,095
Exercise of Warrants                                                                  527,571

At 31 December

Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

                                                                       143 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

16.1 Issuance of Rights Shares

On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of 220,113,744 new ordinary shares (“Rights
Shares”) on the basis of two (2) Rights Shares for every five (5) existing ordinary shares together
with 55,028,376 new ordinary shares (“Bonus Shares B”) on the basis of one (1) Bonus Share
B for every four (4) Rights Shares subscribed and 55,028,376 free detachable warrants (“Free
Warrants B”) on the basis of one (1) Free Warrant B for every four (4) Rights Shares subscribed,
at an issue price of RM0.50 per Rights Share has been completed following the listings and
quotation on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.

                                                                                                                    RM’000

As at 1 January 2019                                                       -
Proceeds from issuance of Rights Shares                           110,057
Transaction costs
                                                                       (896)

Net proceeds                                                      109,161
Amount ascribed to issuance of Warrants                             (7,154)

                                                                  102,007

Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)  Group and Company

RCULS - Equity portion                                  2020      2019
RCULS - Liability portion
                                                        RM’000    RM’000
 Non-current
 Current                                                82,479    85,462

                                                         14,234    18,500
                                                           5,087     5,495

                                                         19,321    23,995

                                                        101,800   109,457

On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of 5-year
5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for every ten (10)
existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis of one (1) Bonus Share
A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A on the basis of one (1) Free
Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed following the listings and quotation
on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.

The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:

(i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior to
        conversion of the RCULS;

(ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”) with
        the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of RM1.00
        surrendered;

144 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)

The salient features of the RCULS are as follows: (cont’d)

(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment and
        issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall
        not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the
        entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;

(iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up to
        24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);

(v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on the Maturity
        Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such RCULS up to the
        Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being served no less than 30 days
        or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity Date; and

(vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity Date,
        shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion Price on the
        Maturity Date.

                                                            Group and Company

                                                            Equity      Liability

                                                            component component       Total
                                                                                   RM’000
                                                            RM’000      RM’000

As at 1 January 2019                                                 -          -           -
Proceeds from issuance of RCULS                             129,057     36,028     165,085
Transaction costs
                                                              (1,345)           -    (1,345)

Net proceeds                                                127,712     36,028     163,740
Conversion of RCULS to share capital*                       (37,673)    (10,389)   (48,062)
Amount ascribed to issuance of Warrants                     (10,730)               (10,730)
RCULS coupon payment                                                            -
Interest expense on RCULS                                            -   (2,953)     (2,953)
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):                                       -    1,309       1,309

 - on issuance                                                 8,647            -     8,647
 - on conversion                                              (2,494)           -    (2,494)

As at 31 December 2019/1 January 2020                       85,462      23,995     109,457
Conversion of RCULS to share capital#                       (2,948)        (146)     (3,094)
RCULS coupon payment                                                                 (5,803)
Interest expense on RCULS                                           -   (5,803)       1,275
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):                                      -    1,275
                                                                                         (35)
 - on conversion                                                 (35)           -

As at 31 December 2020                                      82,479      19,321     101,800

* In the previous year, 96,123,820 new ordinary shares amounting to RM48,061,910 were issued
    resulting from the conversion of 48,061,910 units of RCULS at the conversion price of RM0.50 each.

# During the year, 6,187,100 new ordinary shares amounting to RM3,093,550 were issued resulting
    from the conversion of 3,093,550 units of RCULS at the conversion price of RM0.50 each.

As at 31 December 2020, 113,929,181 RCULS remained unconverted.

                                                            145 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

Warrant reserve

                                                                Group and Company

                                                                Number of              Number of
                                                                                         warrants
                                                     Amount     warrants    Amount             2019
                                                         2020                                   ’000
                                                                2020        2019
                                                     RM’000
                                                                ’000        RM’000

At 1 January                                         17,884     137,570             -           -
Issued during the year                                       -           -  17,884     137,571
Exercised during the year                                    -           -
                                                                                    *          (1)

At 31 December                                       17,884     137,570     17,884     137,570

* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised

On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 Warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights Shares
and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).

The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the Rights
Issue.

The Warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed Poll”).

The salient features of the Warrants are as follows:

(i) Each Warrant entitles the Warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
        Company at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on 23 January 2024
        (“Exercise Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with provisions of the Deed
        Poll;

(ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any Warrants which have not been exercised shall
        automatically lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and

(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the Warrants will, upon allotment and
        issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall
        not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the
        entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.

As at 31 December 2020, 137,569,367 Warrants remained unexercised.

Other capital reserve

Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.

Translation reserve

The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations.

146 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
17. Trade and other payables, including derivatives

                                                     Group              Company

                               Note      2020               2019        2020      2019

                                         RM’000             RM’000      RM’000    RM’000

Trade payables                           116,779            104,379        7,691     6,665
                                                  -                  -  135,372   112,832
Amount due to subsidiaries     17.1
                                          95,077             82,149      22,640    17,542
Other payables and accruals 17.2
                                            1,710                125
Derivatives at fair value                   6,769              4,650

through profit or loss:

- future and option contracts                                                336       125
                                                                           4,048     3,183
- foreign currency forward                                              170,087   140,347

contracts

                                         220,335            191,303

17.1 Amount due to subsidiaries

        The amount due to subsidiaries is unsecured, repayable on demand and interest bearing (2019:
        interest bearing).

17.2 Other payables and accruals

        Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits from
        customers of RM20,046,000 (2019: RM22,222,000) and RM225,000 (2019: RM1,514,000)
        respectively.

18. Loans and borrowings                             Group              Company

        Non-current                      2020               2019        2020      2019
        Unsecured term loans
        Current                          RM’000             RM’000      RM’000    RM’000
        Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
                                         227,428            223,058     -         2,200
          Unsecured revolving credits
        Unsecured term loans               885,298     900,048          369,764   426,851
                                             46,850      47,580            2,200     7,580
        Total loans and borrowings
                                           932,148     947,628          371,964   434,431

                                         1,159,576   1,170,686          371,964   436,631

Included in the Group’s and the Company’s loans and borrowings are unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
unsecured revolving credits denominated in USD of RM495,507,000 (2019: RM539,187,000) and
RM157,106,000 (2019: RM222,659,000) respectively.

                                                            147 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

19. Revenue                                                           Group             Company

        Revenue from contracts                             2020              2019       2020       2019
          with customers
                                                           RM’000            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

                                                           2,680,670  2,681,563         476,181    483,667

Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.

20. Operating proﬁt

                                                                      Group             Company

                                                     Note  2020              2019       2020       2019

                                                           RM’000            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Operating proﬁt is arrived at                                  344           351        110        110
 after charging/(crediting):                                   115
                                                                             111        -          -
Auditors’ remuneration:                                          13
 - Audit services                                                            13         -          -
     KPMG PLT                                                    17
     Affiliates of KPMG PLT                                      92          37         17         37
     Other auditors
 - Non-audit services                                        1,055           156        27         79
     KPMG PLT
     Affiliates of KPMG PLT                                      56

Material expenses/(income):                                67,355

Amortisation of intangible assets 5                          3,202               977        236         205
                                                                                  57          56          57
Depreciation of investment                                         -
                                                            (2,030)          64,537     15,738      18,300
properties                                           6                        3,448       1,899       2,128
                                                           (19,189)                  -
Depreciation of property, plant                                    -         (2,356)    (26,730)   (18,977)
                                                                                            (330)   (1,853)
and equipment                                        3

Depreciation of right-of-use

assets                                               4

Dividend income from

subsidiaries (unquoted)

Insurance recoveries

Interest income from:

- deposit placed with

licensed banks                                                               (11,037)    (1,188)       (845)
                                                                                     -  (21,542)   (18,973)
- subsidiaries

148 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
20. Operating proﬁt (cont’d)                                          Group             Company

                                                     Note  2020              2019       2020       2019

        Material expenses/(income):                        RM’000            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000
          (cont’d)
                                                           26,579            27,081     12,530     12,705
        Interest expense from:                              9,176                969        227        876
          - unsecured bankers’                                     -                 -
             acceptances/unsecured                          1,275                        4,074      4,509
             revolving credits                                 263             1,309     1,275      1,309
          - unsecured term loans                                                 325
          - subsidiaries                                    2,062                           192        232
          - RCULS                                                              1,090
          - lease liabilities                              (4,263)                              -          -
                                                            2,126            (10,668)
        Net fair value loss on                                                    (12)   1,084        (831)
          biological assets                                 1,937                           211        745
                                                                 (2)               89
        Net (gain)/loss on future and                                         (1,639)    3,371      1,437
          option contracts:                                                                 550         (12)
          - realised
          - unrealised                                      11,622            11,758     4,488      4,918
                                                           125,744           124,877    43,877     42,803
        Net loss/(gain) on foreign
          exchange:                                        399               221        13         32
          - realised
          - unrealised                                     190               157        92         96

        Personnel expense (including                       4,995             2,541      257        127
          key management personnel):
          - Contributions to Employees                     -                 -          (1,050)    (1,050)
             Provident Fund
          - Wages, salaries and others

        Expenses/(Income) arising
          from leases:

        Expenses relating to short-term
          leases

        Expenses relating to leases of
          low-value assets

        Expenses relating to variable
          lease payments not included
          in the measurement of lease
          liabilities

        Income from subleasing
          right-of-use assets (excluding
          subleasing of investment
          properties)

                                                                             149 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

20. Operating proﬁt (cont’d)                                             Group             Company

                                                     Note     2020              2019       2020       2019

        Net loss on impairment of                             RM’000            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000
          ﬁnancial instruments
                                                              1,190             5,978      180        846
        Financial assets at amortised cost

      21. Tax expense                                                    Group             Company

                 Recognised in the income statements          2020              2019       2020       2019
                 Current tax expense
                 - current year                               RM’000            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000
                 - prior year
                 Total current tax expense                    23,756            21,414     4,493      2,202
                 Deferred tax expense                            (249)              311     (218)       253
                 Reversal and origination of
                                                              23,507            21,725     4,275      2,455
                   temporary differences
                 (Over)/Under provision in prior year         (5,198)           (7,957)     5,208      4,975
                 Total deferred tax expense                   (2,866)            3,925     (4,552)        721
                 Total tax expense
                 Reconciliation of tax expense                (8,064)           (4,032)        656     5,696
                 Profit for the year
                 Total tax expense                            15,443            17,693      4,931      8,151
                 Profit before tax
                 Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24%             20,584            60,602     54,178     26,483
                 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdiction  15,443            17,693      4,931      8,151
                 Non-deductible expenses
                 Non-taxable income                           36,027            78,295     59,109     34,634
                 Recognition of previously unrecognised
                                                               8,646            18,791     14,186      8,312
                   deferred tax assets                        (5,848)           (4,809)            -          -
                 Current year losses for which no              2,339             3,761
                                                                                            1,751      3,031
                   deferred tax asset was recognised                  -                 -  (6,417)    (4,556)
                 Others
                                                                      -               (4)          -          -
                 (Over)/Under provision in prior year
                                                              13,735                   3           -          -
150 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad              (314)          (4,285)        181        390

                                                              18,558            13,457      9,701      7,177
                                                              (3,115)            4,236     (4,770)        974

                                                              15,443            17,693      4,931      8,151
22. Earnings per ordinary share

Basic earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding,
calculated as follows:

                                                                     Group

                                                                     2020           2019

                                                                     RM’000         RM’000

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company          5,413          43,251

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December                   ’000         ’000
                                                                     1,007,587      958,710

                                                                     sen            sen

Basic earnings per ordinary share                                    0.54           4.51

Diluted earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share was based on profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been in issue upon
the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding Warrants, calculated as
follows:

                                                                     Group

                                                                     2020           2019

                                                                     RM’000         RM’000

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company          5,413          43,251
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax                                1,275           1,309

                                                                     6,688          44,560

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (basic)           ’000           ’000
Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS
Potential dilution arising from outstanding Warrants                 1,007,587        958,710
                                                                       227,858        234,046
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (diluted)              -    137,569

                                                                     1,235,445      1,330,325

                                                                     sen            sen

Diluted earnings per ordinary share                                  0.54           3.35

                                                             151 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

23. Dividends                                                             Total  Date of payment
                                                                        amount
        Dividends recognised by the Company are:                        RM’000   27 March 2020
                                                                                 13 September 2019
                                                                  sen    18,133  29 March 2019
                                                             per share
                                                                         12,042
2020                                                                      9,740

Second interim 2019 ordinary                         1.80                21,782

2019

Interim 2019 ordinary                                1.20

Second interim 2018 ordinary                         1.00

On 26 February 2021, the Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.00 sen per ordinary share totalling
approximately RM10,181,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020, which was
paid on 26 March 2021.

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

24. Operating segments

Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management report on a regular basis.

The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:

• Flour and grains trading                           Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains and other
                                                     allied products

• Poultry integration                                Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
                                                     poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
                                                     day-old-chicks and contract farming activities

The Group’s other operations include companies that had ceased operations and dormant companies.
None of these segments meets any of the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments
in 2020 or 2019.

Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.

152 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Operating segments (cont’d)

The total of segment asset is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
asset is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.

                             Flour and grains  Poultry integration         Others      Eliminations    Consolidated
                                   trading         2020 2019            2020 2019      2020 2019        2020 2019
                                                                     RM’000 RM’000  RM’000 RM’000    RM’000 RM’000
                               2020 2019       RM’000 RM’000
                            RM’000 RM’000

Business segments

Revenue from external

customers                   2,027,389 1,980,047 653,281 701,516      -    -         -  - 2,680,670 2,681,563

Inter-segment revenue       52,366 39,740 63,428 37,096              -    - (115,794) (76,836)       -     -

Total segment revenue 2,079,755 2,019,787 716,709 738,612            -    - (115,794) (76,836) 2,680,670 2,681,563

Results from operating

activities                  122,454 114,687 (69,999) (31,942) (108) (158)           -  - 52,347 82,587

Interest expense            (30,824) (34,359) (32,216) (19,698)      -    - 25,747 24,373 (37,293) (29,684)
                                                                          - (25,757) (25,309) 20,022 11,304
Interest income             41,016 30,169 4,763 6,444                -

Share of profit of equity

accounted joint venture,

net of tax                  967 14,121         -    -                -    -         -  -             967 14,121

Share of loss of equity

accounted associate,

net of tax                  (16)  (33)         -    -                -    -         -  -             (16)  (33)

Proﬁt/(Loss) before tax 133,597 124,585 (97,452) (45,196) (108) (158)               (10) (936) 36,027 78,295

Depreciation and            (31,187) (33,710) (41,403) (36,219)      -    (11) 922     921 (71,668) (69,019)
  amortisation

Tax expense                 (23,316) (20,903) 7,873 3,210            -    -         -  - (15,443) (17,693)

Insurance recoveries        1,514 1,938        516  418              -    -         -  - 2,030 2,356

Non-cash expense            (88) (1,259) (3,478) (3,127)             -    -         -  - (3,566) (4,386)
 other than depreciation
 and amortisation

Capital expenditure         (22,646) (38,403) (50,098) (176,555)     -    -         - 1,646 (72,744) (213,312)

Segment assets              1,365,680 1,398,120 1,050,021 1,051,482  513  544       -  - 2,416,214 2,450,146

Investment in a joint venture 164,738 130,912  -    -                -    -         -  - 164,738 130,912

Investment in an associate  -     -            -    - 1,050 1,074                   -  - 1,050 1,074

Total segments assets 1,530,418 1,529,032 1,050,021 1,051,482 1,563 1,618           -  - 2,582,002 2,582,132

                                                                          153 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Operating segments (cont’d)

Geographical segments

In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on
geographical location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the
assets.

                                                     Malaysia              Vietnam         Consolidated

                                                     2020      2019        2020      2019  2020     2019

                                                     RM’000 RM’000       RM’000 RM’000     RM’000 RM’000

Revenue from external  1,720,258 1,765,734                               960,412 915,829 2,680,670 2,681,563
 customers

Non-current assets     1,220,152 1,168,478                                 93,458 101,444 1,313,610 1,269,922

Major customers

There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020 (2019: Nil).

25. Financial instruments

25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments

The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:

(a) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
        - Mandatorily required by MFRS 9

(b) Amortised cost (“AC”)

                                                                           Carrying                 Mandatorily
                                                                            amount
2020                                                                 Note   RM’000         AC at FVTPL
Financial assets
                                                                                           RM’000   RM’000

Group                                                                11    380,323         380,323          -
Trade and other receivables,                                                               382,220  22,407
                                                                     14    404,627
 including derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents

                                                                           784,950         762,543  22,407

Company                                                              11    554,774         554,774          -
Trade and other receivables,                                                                11,408  22,407
                                                                     14    33,815
 including derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents

                                                                           588,589         566,182  22,407

154 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments (cont’d)

                                                      Carrying                 Mandatorily
                                                       amount
2020                                Note               RM’000    AC at FVTPL
Financial liabilities
                                                                 RM’000        RM’000

Group                                             17  (220,335)  (211,856)     (8,479)
Trade and other payables,                                                             -
                                                  18 (1,159,576) (1,159,576)          -
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings                              16  (19,321)   (19,321)
RCULS - Liabilities

                                                      (1,399,232) (1,390,753)  (8,479)

Company                                           17  (170,087)  (165,703)     (4,384)
Trade and other payables,                                                             -
                                                  18  (371,964)  (371,964)            -
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings                              16  (19,321)   (19,321)
RCULS - Liabilities

                                                      (561,372)  (556,988)     (4,384)

                                                      Carrying                 Mandatorily
                                                       amount
2019                                Note               RM’000    AC at FVTPL
Financial assets
                                                                 RM’000        RM’000
Group
Trade and other receivables,                      11  394,112    393,572           540
                                                                 311,922       18,831
 including derivatives                            14  330,753
Cash and cash equivalents                                        705,494       19,371
                                                      724,865
Company
Trade and other receivables,                      11  531,597    531,597               -
                                                                  16,059       18,831
 including derivatives                            14  34,890
Cash and cash equivalents                                        547,656       18,831

                                                      566,487

                                                      155 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments (cont’d)

                                                               Carrying                    Mandatorily
                                                                amount
2019                                                 Note       RM’000          AC at FVTPL
Financial liabilities
                                                                                RM’000     RM’000
Group
Trade and other payables,                                 17   (191,303)        (186,528)  (4,775)
                                                                                                  -
 including derivatives                                    18 (1,170,686) (1,170,686)              -
Loans and borrowings
RCULS - Liabilities                                       16          (23,995)  (23,995)   (4,775)

Company                                                        (1,385,984) (1,381,209)
Trade and other payables,
                                                          17   (140,347)        (137,039)  (3,308)
 including derivatives                                                                            -
Loans and borrowings                                      18   (436,631)        (436,631)         -
RCULS - Liabilities
                                                          16          (23,995)  (23,995)   (3,308)

                                                               (600,973)        (597,665)

25.2 Net gains and losses arising from ﬁnancial instruments

                                                               Group            Company

                                                     2020             2019      2020       2019

                                                     RM’000           RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Net (losses)/gains on:                                (2,119)          (1,028)      (865)   (1,014)
Financial assets/(liabilities) at fair                 2,137          10,680     (1,295)         86
                                                     18,735                     22,545
 value through profit or loss:                                          5,326              19,055
 Mandatorily required by MFRS 9                      (37,109)                   (21,355)
 - foreign currency forward                                           (27,106)             (20,041)
                                                                                    (970)
     contracts                                                                              (1,914)
 - future and option contracts
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial liabilities measured at
 amortised cost

                                                     (18,356)         (12,128)

156 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        25.3 Financial risk management
                 The Group has exposure to credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risks from its
                 financial instruments.

        25.4 Credit risk
                 Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
                 to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
                 principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
                 to prior periods.
                 Trade receivables
                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                 Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
                 ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
                 evaluations and institutes mitigating actions. New customers are subject to credit evaluation
                 process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
                 appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
                 legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.
                 At each reporting date, the Group or the Company assess whether any of the trade receivables
                 are credit impaired.
                 The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
                 full) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
                 the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
                 generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
                 receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
                 There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
                 Exposure to credit risk and credit quality
                 At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
                 represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.
                 The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
                 directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.

                                                                            157 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Concentration of credit risk

The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the balance sheet date by geographic
region was:

                                                              Group           Company

                                                     2020            2019     2020       2019

                                                     RM’000          RM’000   RM’000     RM’000

Malaysia                                             248,713         257,705  71,773     76,625
Vietnam                                               96,270          97,131          -          -

                                                     344,983         354,836  71,773     76,625

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage its debtors
and takes appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within the credit terms of 90 days. The Group’s
and the Company’s debt recovery process are as follows:

(a) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
        structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and

(b) Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
        legal proceeding against the customer.

The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Consistent with the debt recovery process, invoices which are past due 90 days
will be considered as credit impaired.

Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.

Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.

158 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.

                                            Group                           Company

                              Gross           Loss                   Gross  Loss     Net
                           carrying  allowances           Net carrying
                           amount                   balance amount          allowances balance
                            RM’000        RM’000    RM’000 RM’000
                                                                            RM’000 RM’000

2020

Not past due               342,566   (830) 341,736 71,875                   (209) 71,666

Credit impaired             2,233    (285) 1,948           157              (50)     107
More than 90 days
                            11,801   (10,502) 1,299        730              (730)    -
 past due
Individually impaired

                           356,600   (11,617) 344,983 72,762                (989) 71,773

2019                       346,645   (1,196) 345,449 76,893                 (301) 76,592

Not past due                  4,104    (685)        3,419      44           (11)     33
                            15,676   (9,708)        5,968  1,400
Credit impaired            366,425                                          (1,400)  -
More than 90 days

 past due
Individually impaired

                                     (11,589) 354,836 78,337                (1,712) 76,625

There are trade receivables where the Group and the Company have not recognised any loss
allowance as the trade receivables are supported by bank guarantees in managing the exposure
to credit risk.

                                                           159 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)

The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.

                                                               Group                      Company

                                                     Trade receivables          Trade receivables

                                                     Lifetime  Credit           Lifetime  Credit

                                                     ECL impaired       Total   ECL impaired          Total
                                                                                                   RM’000
                                                     RM’000    RM’000   RM’000 RM’000     RM’000

Balance at                                                 -   5,715 5,715      -         953      953
 1 January 2019                                            -
                                                               (104) (104)      -         (87)     (87)
Amounts written off                                  1,196
Net remeasurement                                              4,782 5,978      301       545      846

 of loss allowance

Balance at 31 December                               1,196     10,393 11,589    301       1,411 1,712
 2019/1 January 2020                                       -                               (903) (903)
                                                               (1,162) (1,162)  -
Amounts written off                                   (366)
Net remeasurement of                                           1,556 1,190      (92)      272      180

 loss allowance

Balance at                                           830       10,787 11,617    209       780      989
 31 December 2020

As at 31 December 2020, RM1,162,000 and RM903,000 (2019: RM104,000 and RM87,000) of
trade receivables for the Group and for the Company were written off but they are still subject to
enforcement activity.

Cash and cash equivalents

The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the balance
sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
balance sheets.

These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.

160 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
                 Financial guarantees
                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                 The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
                 financing facilities granted to its joint venture corporation. The Company monitors on an ongoing
                 basis the results of the joint venture corporation and repayments made by the joint venture
                 corporation.
                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
                 The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD18.6 million
                 (2019: USD12.6 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venture corporation.
                 As at 31 December 2020, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD9.2 million
                 (2019: USD7.0 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
                 venture corporation as at the end of the reporting period.
                 As at the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venture corporation would
                 default on repayment.
                 The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was
                 not material.
                 Intercompany advances
                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                 The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
                 results of the subsidiaries regularly.
                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
                 As at the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
                 amounts in the balance sheet.

                                                                            161 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Intercompany advances (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:

• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for
subsidiaries’ advances.

Company                                                 Gross  Impairment            Net
                                                     carrying            loss  balance
                                                     amount                    RM’000
                                                      RM’000   allowances
                                                                    RM’000

2020                                                 475,265       -           475,265
Low credit risk                                           392  (392)                    -
Credit impaired

                                                     475,657   (392)           475,265

2019                                                 448,164       -           448,164
Low credit risk                                           392  (392)                    -
Credit impaired
                                                     448,556   (392)           448,164

162 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Intercompany advances (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of subsidiaries’ advances during the
year is as follows:

Company                                                                        Lifetime ECL
                                                                                      RM’000

Balance at 1 January 2019                                                          392

Net remeasurement of loss allowance                                                -

Balance at 31 December 2019/1 January 2020                                         392

Net remeasurement of loss allowance                                                -

Balance at 31 December 2020                                                        392

25.5 Interest rate risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.

Exposure to interest rate risk

The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts as at the balance sheet date are as follows:

                                                 Group                    Company

                           Note      2020                2019    2020              2019

                                     RM’000             RM’000   RM’000            RM’000

Fixed rate instruments

Deposits placed with

licensed banks             14        344,207            268,350           421      414

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits          18        (885,298)   (900,048)       (369,764)     (426,851)
                                        (5,595)     (5,263)         (3,821)       (3,842)
Lease liabilities
                                      (19,321)    (23,995)        (19,321)      (23,995)
RCULS - Liabilities        16

                                     (566,007)   (660,956)       (392,485)     (454,274)

Floating rate instruments

Unsecured term loans       18        (274,278)   (270,638)       (2,200)           (9,780)

                                                         163 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)

Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for ﬁxed rate instruments

The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would
not affect the income statements.

(b) Cash ﬂow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments

A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would
have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown
below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates,
remained constant.

                                                                Proﬁt or loss

                                                         50 bp  50 bp     50 bp           50 bp
                                                     increase                        decrease
                                                                decrease  increase
                                                          2020                             2019
                                                      RM’000    2020           2019    RM’000

                                                                RM’000    RM’000

Group

Floating rate instruments                            (1,042)    1,042     (1,028)    1,028

Company

Floating rate instruments                            (8)        8              (37)  37

25.6 Foreign currency risk

        The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
        borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
        of the Group entities. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily United States Dollar (USD).

        Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

        The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
        where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
        to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.

164 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the
reporting period was:

                                                             Note  Denominated in USD

                                                                   2020        2019

                                                                   RM’000      RM’000

Group

Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/

Unsecured revolving credits                                  18    (495,507)   (539,187)
                                                                      (6,769)     (4,650)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:

- foreign currency forward contracts                         17

                                                                   (502,276)   (543,837)

Company

Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/

Unsecured revolving credits                                  18    (157,106)   (222,659)
                                                                      (4,048)     (3,183)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:

- foreign currency forward contracts                         17

                                                                   (161,154)   (225,842)

Currency risk sensitivity analysis

A 5 percent (2019: 5 percent) strengthening/(weakening) of RM against USD at the balance
sheet date would have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts
shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained
constant.

                                                                   Proﬁt or Loss

                                                                   2020        2019

                                                                   RM’000      RM’000

Group                                                              6,262       6,179
USD

Company                                                            (1,545)     (1,801)
USD

                                                             165 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall
due. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables, loans and
borrowings and lease liabilities.

The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.

It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.

Maturity analysis

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments:

                      Carrying Contractual Contractual                                   Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
                                                                                         1 year years years 5 years
Group                 amount interest rate cash ﬂows                                    RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

                      RM’000                                  % RM’000

2020

Non-derivative

ﬁnancial liabilities

Trade and other

payables              211,856                                              -  211,856 211,856  -  -                   -

Unsecured bankers’                                            0.94 – 3.20                                             -
                                                              3.24 – 3.68                                      30,777
acceptances/                                                  5.00 – 8.50
                                                                                                                      -
Unsecured                                                             5.10                                            -

revolving credits 885,298                                                     890,467 890,467  -  -

Unsecured term

loans                 274,278                                                 300,777   54,296 55,755 159,949
                                                                                 6,044   2,272 1,937 1,835
Lease liabilities                                    5,595                               5,697 5,697 8,544
                                                                               19,938
RCULS liabilities                                    19,321

Derivative ﬁnancial                                  6,769    - 330,709 330,709                -  -            -
 liabilities                                               -
                                                              - (323,940) (323,940)            -  -            -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option                                    1,710    -               (5,461) (5,461)  -  -            -
 contracts (gross                                          -
 settled):                                                    -               7,171 7,171      -  -            -
 Outflow
 Inflow

                      1,404,827                                               1,437,561 1,173,067 63,389 170,328 30,777

166 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

                              Carrying Contractual Contractual       Under 1 - 2 2 - 5
                                                                     1 year years years
Group                         amount interest rate cash ﬂows       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

                              RM’000     %               RM’000

2019                          186,528                 -  186,528 186,528     -  -
Non-derivative
                              900,048    2.37 – 5.30     909,253   909,253   -  -
 ﬁnancial liabilities         270,638    4.46 – 5.01     304,286    58,928
Trade and other payables                 5.00 – 5.80                  2,112  62,378 182,980
Unsecured bankers’               5,263                      5,685     5,851
                               23,995             5.10    26,330             1,877 1,696
 acceptances/Unsecured
 revolving credits                                                           5,851 14,628
Unsecured term loans
Lease liabilities
RCULS liabilities

Derivative ﬁnancial           4,650      -               376,577 376,577     -  -
 liabilities                        -
                                         - (371,927) (371,927)               -  -
Foreign currency forward
 contracts (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option

contracts (gross settled):

Outflow                       125        -               967       967       -  -

Inflow                        -          -               (842)     (842)     -  -

                              1,391,247                  1,436,857 1,167,447 70,106 199,304

                                                         167 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

                                                     Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5

Company                                              amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years

                                                     RM’000    %               RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2020                                                 165,703                -  165,703 165,703     -        -
Non-derivative ﬁnancial
                                                     369,764   0.94 – 2.97     371,194   371,194         -        -
 liabilities                                            2,200          3.68       2,234     2,234        -        -
Trade and other payables                                3,821          5.00       4,037     1,683  1,407      947
Unsecured bankers’                                                     5.10                 5,697  5,697    8,544
                                                      19,321                    19,938
 acceptances/Unsecured
 revolving credits
Unsecured term loans
Lease liabilities
RCULS liabilities

Derivative ﬁnancial                                  4,048     -               197,756 197,756     -        -
 liabilities                                               -
                                                               - (193,708) (193,708)               -        -
Foreign currency forward
 contracts (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option

contracts (gross settled):

Outflow                                              336       -               284       284       -        -

Inflow                                               -         -               52        52        -        -

                                                     565,193                   567,490 550,895 7,104 9,491

168 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

                              Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5

Company                       amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years

                              RM’000    %               RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2019                          137,039                -  137,039 137,039     -        -
Non-derivative ﬁnancial
                              426,851   2.43 – 4.11     430,026   430,026         -          -
 liabilities                     9,780  4.91 – 5.01      10,036      7,792  2,244            -
Trade and other payables         3,842                     4,111     1,564  1,513     1,034
Unsecured bankers’                              5.00     26,330      5,851  5,851    14,628
                               23,995           5.10
 acceptances/Unsecured
 revolving credits
Unsecured term loans
Lease liabilities
RCULS liabilities

Derivative ﬁnancial           3,183     -               270,052 270,052     -        -
 liabilities                        -
                                        - (266,869) (266,869)               -        -
Foreign currency forward
 contracts (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

Future and option

contracts (gross settled):

Outflow                       125       -               967       967       -        -

Inflow                        -         -               (842) (842)         -        -

                              604,815                   610,850 585,580 9,608 15,662

                                                        169 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.8 Fair value information

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short term receivables and payables and
short term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term
nature of these financial instruments.

Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value

                                                     Level 1       Level 2     Total
                                                     RM’000        RM’000   RM’000

Group                                                22,407        -        22,407
2020
Financial assets
Liquid investments

Financial liabilities                                           -  6,769    6,769
Foreign currency forward contracts                        1,710          -  1,710
Future and option contracts

                                                          1,710    6,769    8,479

2019                                                     540       -        540
Financial assets                                     18,831
Future and option contracts                                        -        18,831
Liquid investments                                   19,371

                                                                   -        19,371

Financial liabilities                                     -        4,650    4,650
Foreign currency forward contracts
Future and option contracts                               125      -        125

                                                          125      4,650    4,775

Company                                              22,407        -        22,407
2020
Financial assets
Liquid investments

Financial liabilities                                     -        4,048    4,048
Foreign currency forward contracts
Future and option contracts                               336      -        336

                                                          336      4,048    4,384

170 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)

25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)

Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value (cont’d)

                                      Level 1                      Level 2        Total
                                      RM’000                       RM’000      RM’000

2019                                  18,831                                -   18,831
Financial assets
Liquid investments                                                    3,183       3,183
                                                                            -       125
Financial liabilities
                                                                      3,183       3,308
Foreign currency forward contracts    -

Future and option contracts           125

                                      125

Level 2 fair value

Derivatives

The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).

Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
(2019: no transfer in either directions).

Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments not carried at fair value

Level 3 fair value

Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long term loan where its fair value approximate
its carrying amount. The fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows with a discount rate
based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at the reporting
date.

26. Capital management

        The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
        Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
        and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
        an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

                                      171 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

26. Capital management (cont’d)

The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 were as follows:

                                                                                     Group

                                                                    Note    2020              2019

                                                                            RM’000          RM’000

Total borrowings                                                    18      1,159,576 1,170,686
Lease liabilities
Less: Cash and cash equivalents                                             5,595           5,263

                                                                    14      (404,627)  (330,753)

Net debt                                                                    760,544         845,196

Total equity                                                                1,164,907 1,180,998

Debt-to-equity ratio                                                        0.65              0.72

There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

27. Capital and other commitments

                                                             Group          Company

                                                     2020           2019    2020              2019

                                                     RM’000         RM’000  RM’000          RM’000

Property, plant and equipment                        24,948  133,782        12,579          14,589
Contracted but not provided for

28. Contingencies

        Group

        Contingent liabilities not considered remote

        Litigation

        Dindings Poultry Processing Sdn Bhd (“DPP”), a subsidiary of the Company, had appointed eTEC E&C
        (M) Sdn Bhd as contractor (“the Contractor”) to construct the new v5, primary processing and further
        processing plant in Lumut in December 2016. As the Contractor had breached the terms of the agreement,
        DPP had issued a notice of termination of the contract for breach of the terms of the contract which
        entitled DPP to make a demand on the performance guarantee of RM12.4 million issued in favour of DPP
        pursuant to the terms of the contract. Prior to the demand, the Contractor commenced proceeding in the
        High Court to restrain DPP from making the demand. The High Court dismissed the Contractor’s claim and
        the bank issuing the guarantee proceeded to release the sum of RM12.4 million to DPP. The Contractor
        filed an appeal against the decision and the matter was fixed for case management in the Court of Appeal
        on 10 March 2021. On 10 March 2021, the Court of Appeal fixed the matter for further case management
        on 1 April 2021. On 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal fixed the matter for further case management on
        28 January 2022 and for Court hearing on 15 February 2022.

172 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
28. Contingencies (cont’d)

        Group (cont’d)
        Contingent liabilities not considered remote (cont’d)
        Litigation (cont’d)
        The Contractor has commenced adjudication proceedings for an alleged claim under various progress
        claims in the total sum of RM65.9 million. DPP has also raised a counter claim sum of RM48.1 million
        in the said proceedings.
        Arising from the breach of the contract by the Contractor, DPP has initiated arbitration proceedings
        against the Contractor for the consequential losses and damages which has been and/or to be
        incurred by DPP. The claim is presently estimated to be approximately RM46.7 million. Against this, the
        Contractor counter claims against DPP a sum of approximately RM78.3 million arising from the early
        termination of the Contractor’s employment.
        Based on the legal advice, the Directors are of the opinion that the subsidiary has a good arguable
        defence for these alleged claims and provisions are not required in respect of these claims.

29. Related parties

        Identity of related parties
        For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the
        Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant
        influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group
        and the party are subject to common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
        Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority
        and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or
        indirectly. Key management personnel include all the Directors of the Group.
        The Group has related party relationship with its holding company, significant investors, subsidiaries,
        joint venture, associate and key management personnel.
        Signiﬁcant related party transactions
        Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
        terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company other than as disclosed
        elsewhere in the financial statements, are shown below. The balances related to the below transactions
        are shown in Note 11 and Note 17.

                                                                            173 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

29. Related parties (cont’d)

Signiﬁcant related party transactions (cont’d)

                                                              Group          Company

                                                     2020            2019    2020       2019

                                                     RM’000          RM’000  RM’000     RM’000

A. Subsidiaries                                      -               -       27,985     29,909
        Sales of goods                                                            (76)     (662)
        Purchases of goods                           -               -            86         86
        Rental of premises                                                       147        147
        Rental of furniture and fittings             -               -
        Rental of equipment                                                   4,705      4,745
        Interest income                              -               -       21,542     18,973
        Interest expense                                                     (4,074)    (4,509)
                                                     -               -

                                                     -               -

                                                     -               -

B. Key management personnel                            960             847     960        847
        Directors of the Company:                    4,734           5,297   4,406      4,670
          - Fees
          - Remuneration                               102             305     102        305
          - Other short-term employee                5,796           6,449   5,468      5,822
             benefits (including estimated
             monetary value of benefits-                   -              6        -          -
             in-kind)                                  623           1,046         -          -

        Directors of the Group entities:               106             110         -          -
          - Fees                                       729           1,162         -          -
          - Remuneration
          - Other short-term employee                6,525           7,611   5,468      5,822
             benefits (including estimated
             monetary value of benefits-
             in-kind)

        Total short-term employee
          benefits

174 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
30. Subsequent event

        On 10 February 2021, the Company entered into a conditional share purchase agreement with Tyson
        International Holding Company (“Tyson”) for the proposed disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings
        Supreme Sdn. Bhd. (“DSSB”), a newly incorporated wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, to Tyson
        for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to be satisfied wholly by cash, in conjunction
        with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson. An Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) will be
        held to approve this disposal by the shareholders.
        DSSB was incorporated on 2 February 2021. On 5 February 2021, the Company and DSSB entered
        into a Share Transfer Agreement to transfer all ordinary shares in Dindings Poultry Development
        Centre Sdn. Bhd. and Dindings Poultry Processing Sdn. Bhd. respectively held by MFM to DSSB. On
        9 March 2021, the transfer of shares has been completed.

                                                                            175 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Statement by Directors

      pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

         In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 90 to 175 are drawn up in
         accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
         the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial
         position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020 and of their financial performance and
         cash flows for the financial year then ended.
         Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:

         Tun Arshad bin Ayub
         Director

         Teh Wee Chye
         Director
         Kuala Lumpur
         5 April 2021

176 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                  Statutory Declaration

                           pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016

I, Tan Hui Joo, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 90 to 175 are, to the best of
my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration
to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Tan Hui Joo, MIA CA47701, at Kuala Lumpur in the
State of Wilayah Persekutuan on 5 April 2021.

Tan Hui Joo
Before me:
Samugam Vassoo (W632)
Commissioner for Oaths
Kuala Lumpur

                                                                            177 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Independent Auditors’ Report

      to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

      Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

       Opinion

         We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
         as at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
         comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
         of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
         significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 90 to 175.

         In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
         Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows
         for the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
         Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

       Basis for Opinion

         We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
         Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
         Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
         audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

       Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

         We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
         Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
         Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
         International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
         in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

       Key Audit Matters

         Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
         audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were
         addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
         and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

         Assessment on the valuation of biological assets

         Refer to Note 2(j) - Significant accounting policies: Biological assets and Note 13 - Biological assets.

         The key audit matter

         The Group’s biological assets comprise parent stock, hatching eggs and broiler inventories. These biological
         assets are recorded at fair value less costs to sell.

         We have identified the valuation of parent stock as a key audit matter as the estimation of the fair value of
         parent stock involved complex judgments and assumptions over the life span and production efficiency of
         the parent stock.

178 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)

How the matter was addressed in our audit

We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others:

• We assessed the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the fair valuation model, in particular,
     those relating to the egg producing life span of the parent stock, mortality rate, selling prices of broilers
     and the costs expected to arise throughout the life of the parent stock and broilers by comparing to
     externally derived data as well as our own assessments which took into account historical trends, industry
     data and other corroborative evidence available.

• We assessed the appropriateness of the range used to test the sensitivity analysis performed by the
     management.

We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of
the Company to communicate in our auditors’ report.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

                                                                            179 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Independent Auditors’ Report

      to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)

       Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

         Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
         of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
         an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
         a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
         International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
         can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
         reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
         statements.

         As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
         on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
         We also:

         • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
              Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
              and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
              not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
              fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
              control.

         • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
              are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
              of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.

         • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
              and related disclosures made by the Directors.

         • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
              on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
              may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
              we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
              the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
              are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
              to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
              Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

         • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
              the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
              Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.

         • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
              business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
              We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
              responsible for our audit opinion.

180 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.

KPMG PLT                  Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758  Approval Number: 02782/09/2022 J
Chartered Accountants     Chartered Accountant

Petaling Jaya
5 April 2021

                          181 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 31 March 2021

Share Capital                                        - RM534,672,890

Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,018,295,729 ordinary shares

12,522 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share

Size of Holdings                                              No. of               % of              No. of    % of
Less than 100                                        Shareholders       Shareholders      Issued Shares      Issued
100 to 1,000                                                                                                 Shares
1,001 to 10,000                                                1,632              13.03             20,020
10,001 to 100,000                                              1,402              11.20           837,743       0.00
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                       5,663              45.22       29,934,052        0.08
5% and above of issued shares                                  3,314              26.47     106,049,520         2.94
                                                                                            735,478,523       10.41
                                                                 509                4.06    145,975,871       72.23
                                                                     2              0.02                      14.34
                                                                                          1,018,295,729
                                                             12,522             100.00                       100.00

Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                                          No. of Shares      Percentage
1. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                                             79,200,000      Holding (%)

      [Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]                                                                  7.78

2. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                                    66,775,871         6.56
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
                                                                                          44,412,076         4.36
3. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd
                                                                                          40,210,539         3.95
4. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                                       39,294,750         3.86

5. Astar Commercial Limited                                                               35,521,170         3.49

6. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                                   33,380,875         3.28
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
                                                                                          31,034,372         3.05
7. Duangmanee Liewphairatana
                                                                                          30,269,600         2.97
8. Yong Kok Yian
                                                                                          28,879,719         2.84
9. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
      (Exempt An for Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. Ltd)                    22,922,100         2.25

10. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                                 22,621,500         2.22
      (Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
                                                                                          20,515,750         2.01
11. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (RHB Trustees Berhad for Manulife Investment Shariah Progress
      Fund)

12. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd

13. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)

182 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                                No. of Shares  Percentage
                                                                                               Holding (%)
14. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                       18,961,133
      (Employees Provident Fund Board)                                                                   1.86

15. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                   18,428,263               1.81
      (Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
                                                                                                         1.54
16. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                        15,729,800
      (Pledged Securities Account for Zalaraz Sdn Bhd)                                                   1.36

17. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                       13,840,000               1.28
      [Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) (Affin ABSR EQ)]                                          1.18
                                                                                                         1.16
18. Teh Wee Chye                                                                12,983,376
                                                                                                         0.78
19. Perbadanan Pembangunan Pertanian Negeri Perak                               12,010,930
                                                                                                         0.69
20. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                       11,794,313
      (Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)                                           0.59
                                                                                                         0.58
21. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                        7,918,900                0.57
      (TMF Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Affin Hwang Wholesale Equity                                     0.55
      Fund)
                                                                                                         0.53
22. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                            6,996,000
      (Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)                                           0.53
                                                                                                         0.50
23. Sim Seng Huat Timber Industries Sdn Bhd                                     6,000,000                0.48

24. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd                                                        5,884,242

25. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd (UBS AG)                                 5,850,519

26. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad                                                  5,622,800
      (Affin Hwang Growth Fund)

27. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                        5,439,000
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Beng Khim)

28. Su Ming Keat                                                                5,400,200

29. Teh Beng Khim                                                               5,056,900

30. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                        4,924,200
      (RHB Trustees Berhad for Manulife Investment-HW Shariah Flexi Fund)

Substantial Shareholders                                Direct Interest         Indirect Interest

 Name                                        No. of Shares               %      No. of Shares      %
 Teh Wee Chye
 Duangmanee Liewphairatana                   120,023,411                 11.79  64,017,360(1)      6.29
 Tun Arshad bin Ayub
                                                 33,380,875              3.28   45,526,097(2)      4.47

                                                 56,036,920              5.50   15,729,800(3)      1.54

                                                                         183 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)

Directors’ Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations

                                                     Direct Interest         Indirect Interest

Name                                                 No. of Shares    %      No. of Shares      %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Teh Wee Chye                                         56,036,920       5.50   15,729,800(3)      1.54
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain            120,023,411      11.79  64,017,360(1)      6.29
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad                                        23,087           0.00   -                  -
Lim Pang Boon
                                                     8,250            0.00   -                  -

                                                     7,078,500        0.70   -                  -

                                                     510,000          0.05   15,729,800(4)      1.54

                                                     488,585          0.05   -                  -

Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
      Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholdings of his spouse.

(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai
      Timber Products Sdn Bhd.

(3) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.

(4) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.

184 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                  Analysis of RCULS Holdings

                                                          as at 31 March 2021

Unconverted RCULS                 - 109,924,827
Conversion Price                  - RM0.50
Maturity Date                     - 24 January 2024

Size of Holdings                    No. of                           % of          No. of     % of
Less than 100                     RCULS                          RCULS           RCULS     RCULS
100 to 1,000                      Holders                        Holders
1,001 to 10,000                                                                       850      0.00
10,001 to 100,000                        24                          2.19       114,524        0.10
100,001 to less than 5% of RCULS       181                         16.48      2,586,694        2.35
5% and above of RCULS                  656                         59.74      5,765,695        5.25
                                       201                         18.31    29,998,956       27.29
                                                                            71,458,108       65.01
                                         30                          2.73
                                          6                          0.55  109,924,827     100.00

                                    1,098                         100.00

Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders                                          No. of RCULS    Percentage
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                            20,421,078  Holding (%)

      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                                                18.58

2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                           14,400,000      13.10
      [Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
                                                                           12,141,067      11.04
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                        9,276,540       8.44

4. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                    8,074,923       7.35
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
                                                                           7,144,500       6.50
5. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd
                                                                           5,250,858       4.78
6. Astar Commercial Limited
                                                                           4,113,000       3.74
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
      (Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)            3,562,500       3.24

8. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd                                                    3,350,593       3.05

9. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                     3,087,500       2.81
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
                                                                           1,815,442       1.65
10. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)                1,500,000       1.36

11. Teh Wee Chye                                                           1,272,000       1.16

12. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                  1,103,000       1.00
      (Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
                                                                           721,958         0.66
13. Yap Pen Ji @ Yap Fan Yee

14. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)

15. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin

16. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd

                                                                 185 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of RCULS Holdings

as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)

Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders                                     No. of RCULS          Percentage
17. Tan Hoee Eng                                                              510,840       Holding (%)
18. Emmel Sendirian Berhad                                                    473,700
19. Allison Foo May Ling                                                      450,000                 0.46
20. Lim Gaik Bway @ Lim Chiew Ah                                              340,200                 0.43
21. Eu Mui @ Ee Soo Mei                                                       280,000                 0.41
22. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                     266,400                 0.31
                                                                                                      0.25
      (AmFraser Securities Pte Ltd for Tan Jin Chwee & Co Pte Ltd)                                    0.24
23. Leow Yan Seong @ Liew Pin
24. Thye Nam Loong Shipping Sdn Bhd                                          192,900            0.18
25. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
                                                                             172,446            0.16
      (Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)
26. Toh Kok Huat                                                             160,800            0.15
27. Lee Ying Fong
28. Tan Ah Kow @ Tan Chee Lin                                                143,550            0.13
29. Adikem Sdn Bhd
30. Toh Kok Lim                                                              140,000            0.13

                                                                             139,900            0.13

                                                                             131,100            0.12

                                                                             129,000            0.12

Directors’ Interests in the Company

                                                     Direct Interest         Indirect Interest

Name                                                 No. of RCULS     %      No. of RCULS       %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Teh Wee Chye                                         12,839,040       11.68  50,000(1)          0.05
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain            35,659,395       32.44  11,628,065(2)      10.58
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Lim Pang Boon                                        2,000            0.00             -        -
Azhari Arshad
                                                     1,500            0.00             -        -

                                                     1,287,000        1.17             -        -

                                                     66,120           0.06             -        -

                                                     -                -      50,000(3)          0.05

Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber

      Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.

186 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                     Analysis of Warrant Holdings

                                                              as at 31 March 2021

Unexercised Warrants                 - 137,564,367
Exercise Price                       - RM0.68
Expiry Date                          - 23 January 2024

Size of Holdings                       No. of               % of                    No. of       % of
Less than 100                        Warrant            Warrant                 Warrants    Warrants
100 to 1,000                         Holders            Holders
1,001 to 10,000                                                                      6,392        0.00
10,001 to 100,000                         143               7.16                 229,915          0.17
100,001 to less than 5% of Warrants       411              20.56               3,812,102          2.77
5% and above of Warrants                  935              46.77             13,835,773         10.06
                                          396              19.81             85,352,091         62.05
                                          111                                34,328,094         24.95
                                                            5.55
                                             3              0.15            137,564,367       100.00

                                        1,999            100.00

Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders                                               No. of    Percentage
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                            Warrants     Holding (%)

      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                         12,210,539                8.88

2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                            12,000,000      8.72
      [Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
                                                                            10,117,555      7.35
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                         6,729,102       4.89

4. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd                                          6,097,950       4.43

5. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                     5,953,750       4.33
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
                                                                            4,375,715       3.18
6. Astar Commercial Limited
                                                                            3,639,725       2.65
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
      (Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)             3,442,400       2.50

8. Teh Wee Chye                                                             3,427,500       2.49

9. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad                        3,394,500       2.47
      (Exempt An for Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad)
                                                                            2,800,000       2.04
10. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd
                                                                            2,792,160       2.03
11. Chin Chee Keong
                                                                            2,067,000       1.50
12. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Looi Boon Han)                        1,610,000       1.17

13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                               1,512,868       1.10
      (Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)

14. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tey Hock Seng)

15. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Ting Kuok Ley @ David Kuok Leh Ting)

16. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
      (Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)

                                                        187 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Warrant Holdings

as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)

Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders                                                        No. of     Percentage
17. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                                Warrants       Holding (%)

      (Pledged Securities Account for Lim Gim Leong)                                  1,460,100                 1.06

18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                               1,360,100          0.99
      (Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad for Yayasan Sabah)
                                                                                      1,306,000          0.95
19. Lim Boon Ngee
                                                                                      1,284,200          0.93
20. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Maybank Trustees Berhad for Affin Hwang Equity Fund)                           1,236,200          0.90

21. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                    1,234,033          0.90
      (Pledged Securities Account for Ho Yock Main)
                                                                                      1,060,000          0.77
22. Tan Hoee Eng
                                                                                      1,000,000          0.73
23. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)                        953,000            0.69

24. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                               950,000            0.69
      (Pledged Securities Account for Looi Boon Han)
                                                                                      900,000            0.65
25. Pristine Acres Sdn Bhd
                                                                                      876,000            0.64
26. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Yew Weng Wah)                                   785,000            0.57

27. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                    727,700            0.53
      (Pledged Securities Account for Yew Weng Wah)

28. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)

29. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Gan Kong Hiok)

30. Tiong Wei Lee

Directors’ Interests in the Company

                                                              Direct Interest         Indirect Interest
                                                     No. of Warrants
Name                                                                           % No. of Warrants         %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Teh Wee Chye                                         6,973,950                 5.07                -     -
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain            25,975,944                18.88  9,690,052(1)       7.04
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Lim Pang Boon                                        4,387                     0.00                -     -
Azhari Arshad
                                                     1,250                     0.00                -     -

                                                     1,072,500                 0.78                -     -

                                                     80,085                    0.06                -     -

                                                     62,500                    0.05                -     -

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
      Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.

188 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                      List of Properties

Description, Location & Size          Existing Use    Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                             Shoplot           Age of            of last     Value At
Freehold land with shop houses                                                              31-12-20
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4                               Building    Revaluation/                RM
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4                                   (Year)    Acquisition
Town of Butterworth                                                                        2,947,000
District of Seberang Perai Utara                      60 9 Sept 1996
Penang                                                                                     1,570,000
Total: 1.44 acres                     Commercial      81 4 Dec 1996
                                          land and                                             72,000
Freehold land with                         building   -                 1981
residential building                                                                      25,262,000
GRN 29231                             Vacant land
Lot 449 Section 67                                                                            136,000
District of Kuala Lumpur              Office and      38-54 6 Oct 1998
Federal Territory                         factory                                         57,688,000
Total: 1.00 acre
                                      Shoplot         41                1991
Freehold land
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of           Office and      28 3 Feb 1995
Lots 5331 & 5332                          factory
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres

Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres

Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre

Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres

                                                      189 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties (cont’d)

          Description, Location & Size               Existing Use    Approximate          Date/Year      Net Book
                                                            Factory           Age of            of last   Value At
          Leasehold land with building                                                                   31-12-20
          PN 25155 Lot 7114                                                Building    Revaluation/              RM
          (expiring on 22-7-2096)                                              (Year)    Acquisition
          Mukim Batu Berendam                                                                              334,000
          District of Melaka Tengah                                  23                1997
          Melaka Darul Azim
          Total: 0.13 acre                           Factory         21                1999              421,000

          Freehold land with building                Vacant land     9                 2011 2,689,000
          HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284
          Bandar Johor Bahru                         Breeder farm    31                2015 122,094,000
          District of Johor Bahru                      and factory
          Johor Darul Takzim
          Total: 0.13 acre                           Office and      30 10 Mar 1995 5,745,000
                                                         factory
          Leasehold land
          HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638                    Residential     29                2017              145,000
          (expiring on 2-4-2072)                           house
          Mukim Plentong
          District of Johor Bahru
          Johor Darul Takzim
          Total: 4.57 acres

          Leasehold land with buildings
          HSD 30841 PT 13521
          HSD 30845 PT 13525
          HSD 30844 PT 13524
          (expiring in 2075)
          Mukim Lumut
          District of Manjung
          Perak Darul Ridzuan
          Total: 200 acres

          Leasehold land with buildings
          HSD 42440, PT 19754
          (expiring on 13-9-2116)
          Mukim Lumut
          District of Manjung
          Perak Darul Ridzuan
          Total: 26.68 acres

          Freehold land with house
          GRN 160946 Lot 45520
          Mukim Plentong
          District of Johor Bahru
          Johor Darul Takzim
          Total: 0.04 acre

190 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size        Existing Use    Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                      Broiler farm           Age of            of last     Value At
Leasehold land with farm buildings                                                        31-12-20
PN370859 Lot 23679                                        Building    Revaluation/                RM
HSD 35899 PT 18500                                            (Year)    Acquisition
HSD 35900 PT 18501                                                                      55,569,000
(expiring in 2075)                                  28                2015
Mukim Pengkalan Baharu
District of Manjung                 Vacant land     -                 1997              271,000
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 464.96 acres                 Vacant land     -                 1990              1

Freehold land                        Office and     23                1994 30,311,000
Grant 1784, Lot 12653                     factory
Mukim Sitiawan                                      24                2000 5,924,000
District of Dindings                Broiler farm
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres                     Office and      18                2000 12,820,000
                                        factory
Freehold land
GM 23464, Lot 10137                 Breeder farm    10                2010 1,490,000
Mukim Bagan Serai
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.12 acres

Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 31-8-2024)
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.30 acres

Freehold land with farm buildings
HS(M) 15129 PTD 21255
Mukim Sri Gading
District of Batu Pahat
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 17.84 acres

Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)
Phu My Industrial Zone I
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres

Leasehold land with farm buildings
PN 378132 Lot 5471
PN 378133 Lot 5472
(expiring on 7-5-2034)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 25.81 acres

                                                    191 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties (cont’d)

Description, Location & Size                         Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                                                            Age of            of last     Value At
                                                                                                         31-12-20
                                                                         Building    Revaluation/                RM
                                                                             (Year)    Acquisition
                                                                                                        5,809,000
Freehold land with farm buildings                    Broiler farm  9                 2011
Geran Nos 110919, 110936, 110937                                                                       21,823,000
110940 & 110941
Lots 65276, 65297, 65298, 65301 & 65302                                                                 7,981,000
Mukim Sungai Terap
District of Kinta                                                                                       6,371,000
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 25.91 acres                                                                                      8,643,000

Freehold land with farm buildings                    Breeder farm  9                 2011
Geran No. 53949 Lot 3997
Mukim Tawar
District of Baling
Kedah Darul Aman
Total: 116.83 acres

Freehold land                                        Vacant land   -                 2013
Geran No. 43156 Lot 4656
Geran No. 11810 Lot 9132
Mukim Lenggong
District of Hulu Perak
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 95.54 acres

Freehold land with farm buildings                    Breeder farm  3                 2014
GRN 65374 Lot 3160
GRN 61255 Lot 3163
Mukim Lenggong
District of Hulu Perak
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 21.67 acres

Freehold land                                        Vacant land   -                 2014
Geran No. 364, Lot 1029
Geran No. 413, Lot 272
Geran No. 435, Lot 969
Geran No. 659, Lot 965
Geran No. 785, Lot 968
Geran No. 980, Lot 971
Geran No. 981, Lot 972
Geran No. 982, Lot 973
Geran No. 983, Lot 974
Geran No. 984, Lot 975
Geran No. 985, Lot 976
Geran No. 986, Lot 966
Geran No. 987, Lot 967
Geran No. 988, Lot 980
Geran No. 989, Lot 981
Geran No. 993, Lot 274

192 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size   Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year      Net Book
                                                      Age of            of last   Value At
Geran No. 994, Lot 275                                                           31-12-20
Geran No. 996, Lot 278                             Building    Revaluation/              RM
Geran No. 997, Lot 279                                 (Year)    Acquisition
Geran No. 1001, Lot 1046
Geran No. 1003, Lot 970        Broiler farm  6                 2014 1,515,000
Geran No. 2385, Lot 977
Geran No. 2388, Lot 1301       Factory       3                 2015 257,475,000
Geran No. 2390, Lot 1300
Geran No. 2444, Lot 978
Geran No. 2445, Lot 979
Geran No. 2464, Lot 1033
Geran No. 2915, Lot 1034
Geran No. 2925, Lot 1035
Geran No. 1092, Lot 964
Geran No. 365, Lot 1030
Geran No. 373, Lot 1036
Geran No. 392, Lot 1031
Geran No. 594, Lot 1032
Geran No. 753, Lot 276
Geran No. 976, Lot 1037
Geran No. 992, Lot 273
Geran No. 995, Lot 277
Geran No. 998, Lot 281
Geran No. 1002, Lot 1305
Geran No. 1138, Lot 1304
Geran No. 2383, Lot 280
Geran No. 2386, Lot 1302
Geran No. 2387, Lot 1303
Mukim Beriah
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 102.93 acres

Freehold land with building
Geran No. 2935 Lot 102
Geran No. 2949 Lot 101
Mukim Pengkalan Baharu
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.54 acres

Leasehold land with buildings
PN 296140 Lot 15562
(expiring on 9-7-2105)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 5.172 acres

                                             193 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of Annual General Meeting

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-First Annual General Meeting (“61st AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be conducted on a fully virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at M5, Mezzanine Floor,
Wisma MCA, 163 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Friday, 28 May 2021 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:-

Ordinary Business

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
      31 December 2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
      thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].

2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
      Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
      themselves for re-election:

(i) Mr Quah Poh Keat                                                              (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris                          (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Lim Pang Boon                                                            (Ordinary Resolution 3)

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM960,000 for the financial

year ended 31 December 2020.                                                      (Ordinary Resolution 4)

4. To approve an amount of up to RM320,000 as benefits payable to the             (Ordinary Resolution 5)
      Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 61st AGM until the
      conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the               (Ordinary Resolution 6)
      financial year ending 31 December 2021 and to authorise the Directors to
      fix their remuneration.

194 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Special Business

To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-

6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
      75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant                (Ordinary Resolution 7)
authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being and that the Directors
be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the listing of and
quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”

7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;

THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -

(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
    the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
    it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
    authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or

                                                     195 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
    after that date is required by law to be held; or

(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
    general meeting,

whichever occurs first;

AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally          (Ordinary Resolution 8)
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”

8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
      accordance with the Companies Act 2016.

By Order of the Board

Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary

Kuala Lumpur
28 April 2021

196 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes:-

1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of the safety measures, this 61st AGM will be conducted on a fully virtual basis via
       live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom
       Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at https://web.lumiagm.com.

2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
       remotely via the RPEV facilities.

3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
       requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in
       person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.

4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to
       vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she speciﬁes the proportion of his/her holding to
       be represented by each proxy.

6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as deﬁned under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
       1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
       with ordinary shares of the Company.

7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneﬁcial
       owners in 1 securities account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
       the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

9. The Form of Proxy (“Form”) shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Form is received or the Form is deposited at the ofﬁce
       of the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
       Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal”
       at https://boardroomlimited.my which is available to all individual members, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for
       holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Forms transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not
       accept any photocopies of the Form in place of the original signed copy.

10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting
       Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
       Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2021. Only a depositor whose
       name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to
       participate and vote on his/her behalf.

Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business

Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements

This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.

Ordinary Resolutions 4 and 5: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits

Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any beneﬁts payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.

In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Directors at the 61st AGM:-

Resolution 4: Payment of Directors’ fees totalling RM960,000 in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2020; and

Resolution 5: Payment of beneﬁts payable to the Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and Board of
Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 61st AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

The beneﬁts payable to the Directors comprise Board Committee ﬁxed fee, meeting allowances and beneﬁts-in-kind. In determining the
estimated total amount of the beneﬁts payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number of scheduled and special
meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Directors involved in these meetings.

Ordinary Resolution 7: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares

The proposed Resolution 7 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

                                                                            197 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
     Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

           The General Mandate will provide ﬂexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
           placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
           acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
           consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
           As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
           60th AGM of the Company held on 24 June 2020.
           Ordinary Resolution 8: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
           The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
           total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained proﬁts of the Company. This authority,
           unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

198 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                           Statement Accompanying
                                Notice of Annual General Meeting

             Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
                                                         Main Market Listing Requirements

1. AUTHORITY TO DIRECTORS TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES
    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

      The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company
      pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
      Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General
      Mandate does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being.
      The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the
      conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
      The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
      including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment
      project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity
      deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the
      Directors consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
      As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
      granted to the Directors at the 60th AGM of the Company held on 24 June 2020.

                                                                            199 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
This page is intentionally left blank.
This page is intentionally left blank.
This page is intentionally left blank.
             MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD

                  Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
                            (Incorporated in Malaysia)

   FORM OF PROXY                                              CDS Account No.        No. of Shares Held

   I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No_________________

                                   (full name in block letters)

   of______________________________________________________________________________________________

                                            (full address)

   being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-

             Full Name (In Block)                      NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding

                                                                               No. of Shares  %

   Address

   * and/or  Full Name (In Block)                      NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
    Address
                                                                               No. of Shares  %

   or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/
   our behalf at the Sixty-First Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be conducted on a fully
   virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at M5, Mezzanine Floor, Wisma MCA, 163 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala
   Lumpur on Friday, 28 May 2021 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.

   My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
   (Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
   will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).

   No.                                    Resolutions                                For      Against

        Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance

        with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-

   1. a. Mr Quah Poh Keat
   2. b. Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
   3. c. Mr Lim Pang Boon
   4. Payment of Directors’ fees
   5. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors
   6. Re-appointment of Auditors
   7. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and

         76 of the Companies Act 2016
   8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

   * Strike out whichever not applicable

✁  Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2021

                                                                                              ____________________________________
                                                                                               Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder

   Notes:-
   1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of the safety measures, this 61st AGM will be conducted on a fully virtual basis via live streaming and online

         remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at
         https://web.lumiagm.com.

   2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPEV facilities.

   3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman
         of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of
         the meeting.

   4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to vote in his/her stead.
         A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

   5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she speciﬁes the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each
         proxy.

   6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as deﬁned under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at
         least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.

   7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneﬁcial owners in 1 securities
         account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

   8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
         corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

   9. The Form of Proxy (“Form”) shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Form is received or the Form is deposited at the ofﬁce of the Company’s Share
         Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
         Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at https://boardroomlimited.my which is available to all individual
         members, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Forms transmitted by fax or email will
         not be accepted. The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Form in place of the original signed copy.

   10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
         Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
         Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2021. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to
         participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.
Fold this ﬂap for sealing

1st fold here

                                                   AFFIX
                                                   STAMP
                                                   HERE

               Share Registrar
               BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD

               11th Floor, Menara Symphony
               No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
               Seksyen 13
               46200 Petaling Jaya
               Selangor Darul Ehsan

2nd fold here
