Group Financial
Highlights

                                                         2020         2021         2022         2023                                                     2024
                                                                                                                                                     RM’000
                                                         RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
                                                                                                                                                    3,121,334
Revenue                                                  2,118,949 2,426,936 2,915,570 3,148,901                                                      115,536
Profit before tax from continuing operations                                                                                                           (38,313)
Tax expense                                              133,668 96,904 179,444 31,962                                                                  77,223
Profit from continuing operations
Profit from discontinued operations,                     (24,661) (35,881) (25,444) (26,677)

 net of tax                                              109,007 61,023 154,000                 5,285
Profit for the year
Minority interests                                       (88,423)     137,519               -           -                                                   -
Profit/(Loss) attributable to equity                     20,584       198,542      154,000        5,285                                             77,223
                                                         (15,171)     (24,633)                  (11,966)                                            (19,108)
 holders of the Company                                                              (8,955)
Issued share capital (RM’000)
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000)                                   5,413     173,909      145,045         (6,681)                                            58,115
Net assets per share (sen) *                               530,665      535,623      535,902      537,262                                             645,415
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (sen) **                 1,070,859    1,254,314    1,364,416    1,341,954                                           1,305,265
Gross dividends (%)
* Based on number of shares (’000)                               106          123          134          131                                                 105
** Based on weighted average                                    0.54       17.08         14.22        (0.65)a                                              4.74a
                                                                1.92                                   6.31                                                5.76
    number of shares (’000)                              1,010,282           3.81         5.71  1,022,893                                           1,239,154
                                                                      1,019,653    1,020,210
Note:
a. As disclosed in Note 21 to the Financial Statements.  1,007,587 1,018,156 1,019,923 1,021,580 1,225,567

Revenue (RM’Million)                                                  Shareholders' Fund (RM’Million)

2,119
            2,427
                         2,916
                                     3,149

                                         3,121

                                                                                                       1,071
                                                                                                                    1,254
                                                                                                                                 1,364
                                                                                                                                             1,342

                                                                                                                               1,305

      2020 2021 2022 2023 2024                                              2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Basic Earnings Per Share (Sen)                                        Proﬁt Before Tax (RM’Million)

17.08                                                                 134
            14.22                                                                 97

0.54                                                                                           179
                                     (0.65)                                                                32

                                         4.74                                                                  116

2020 2021 2022 2023 2024                                              2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

                                                                      85 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement

       The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
       good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company, its
       subsidiaries and joint ventures (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and
       enhance long-term shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account
       the interest of all stakeholders.
       The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
       transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
       with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
       increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
       The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG 2021”) in its
       corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
       Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016, the Board always keep
       abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other relevant regulations to
       uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
       This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
       financial year ended 31 December 2024 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
       Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
       discloses the Company’s application of each practice set out in the MCCG 2021.
       This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
       principles of the MCCG 2021 as follows:
       A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
       B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
       C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

      I. Board Responsibilities

            Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
            The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
            of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
            Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
            direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
            succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
            and various stakeholders.
            Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
            • Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
            • Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly

                 managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
            • Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
            • Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate

                 internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks
            • Review the adequacy of the internal control systems

86 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• Review succession and human resource plans

• Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
     and significant capital expenditure

The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Executive Deputy Chairman cum
Managing Director who further cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and management team remain accountable to the Board
for the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the general business environment, financial
performance, operational progress, business outlook and action plans of the Company, the operating
subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company on a quarterly basis.

Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:

• Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group

• Declaration of dividends

• Approval of annual budget

• Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff

• Proposed corporate exercise

• Borrowings from financial institutions

• Acquisition and disposal of assets

• New investments such as joint venture

As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment of
Director and key management positions. The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director updates
the Board from time to time on the details of the programmes for management development such as
coaching, leadership and technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration of the Directors and
key Senior Management to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently attractive to attract
and retain the talents.

Separation of positions of the Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director

The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.

Datuk Oh Chong Peng, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Board.
He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board effectiveness and compliance with corporate
governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and general meetings to ensure that the meetings
are carried out smoothly according to their agenda.

Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company and leads the
day-to-day management of the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate
business strategies and plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and
profitability to meet the stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and
decisions of the Board and coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.

The Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director have regular dialogues over all
operational matters. Between Board meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the
Board and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director, expects to be kept informed by
the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the
Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.

                                              87 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

Board Meetings and Time Commitment

The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.

For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.

All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.

In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.

The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their full attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year as set out in the table below:

Name of Directors                                   Board  Audit & Risk  Nomination Remuneration
                                                           Management    Committee Committee
                                                            Committee
Non-Independent
                                                                  5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                 7/7            -     -    3/3
                                                                   -
Teh Wee Chye                                        7/7            -     -    -
                                                                   -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 7/7                      -     1/1  -

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                             7/7                  -    3/3

Azhari Arshad                                       7/7                  -    -

Lim Pang Boon                                       7/7                  -    -

Independent

Quah Poh Keat                                       7/7    5/5           1/1  -

Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka Setia               7/7    -             1/1  3/3
Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris

Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil                      7/7    5/5           -    3/3

All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.

Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.

88 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well as
monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in their other
directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.

Access to Advice and Information

In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Board
Committee members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting
in advance so that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the
meeting.

Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
issues that may be raised by Directors.

In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.

Qualified and Competent Company Secretary

In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who satisfied the qualifications as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities.

The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
are made and properly kept.

The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
with the Listing Requirements.

The Company Secretary always keeps abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.

Directors’ Continuing Development

The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.

From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
controls, sustainability initiatives, corporate governance and finance as well as global and local business
environment.

                                              89 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
            Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.

            The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
            and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.

            For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences, workshop
            and courses covering leadership, corporate governance, economy, environmental sustainability, poultry,
            agriculture, risk and audit of the following topics:

            • MFM Leadership Conference
            • Competition Law Compliance Training
            • Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
            • 9th International Agriculture Congress 2024
            • Exposition of Legal Duties under Companies Act 2016 and Allied Regulatory Framework
            • World Veterinary Poultry Association Malaysia Seminar 2024 on Poultry Diseases
            • Bursa: Conflict of Interest (“COI”) and Governance of COI
            • Navigating Directorship: Legal Consequences, Responsibilities and Risks in Office
            • Workshop for “Impact Study of AI, Digital and Green Economy on Malaysian Workforce”
            • IIC Corporate Governance Conference 2024 - Countdown to 2030: Investing Towards Sustainable

               Development in Malaysia
            • What Amounts to a Conflict of Interest by Directors
            • Sustainability Reporting & Assurance Training: Are You Ready for Bursa Malaysia Sustainability

               Reporting & Assurance
            • KWAP Inspire Conference 2024
            • Navigating the 2H 2024 Financial Landscape: The Impact of Interest Rate Movements, Global Elections

               and Artificial Intelligence on Investment Strategies and Markets
            • Audit Committee Conference 2024 - Embracing Strategic Oversight: The Future of Audit Committees
            • Fostering Strategic Mindset & Harrison Assessment Report Understanding

            Board Charter

            The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how business
            is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate Governance. The
            Board Charter was last revised in 2023 to reflect the changes in the composition of the Independent and
            Non-Independent Directors in the Board, changes in Board Committees and set a limit on the tenure of
            an Independent Director to not more than a cumulative period of 12 years. The Board Charter is available
            on the Company’s website.

            Code of Conduct

            The Group’s Code of Conduct (“CoC”) is in force across the Group and all Directors and employees
            must comply with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty of
            non-compliance with the CoC. The CoC sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all Directors and
            employees are expected to comply with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders,
            suppliers, competitors, the wider community and the environment.

            Every Director and employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s
            philosophy and core values. The following CoC must be adhered to at all times by all Directors and
            employees within the Group:

            a. Demonstrating commitment
            b. Living the core values of the Group
            c. Avoiding conflict of interest

90 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
d. Preventing bribery and corruption
e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
g. Protecting company assets and resources
h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
j. Prohibiting insider trading
k. Complying with Antitrust and Competition Laws

The CoC is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company. The CoC
was last revised in 2024 to enhance the compliance clauses.

As personal commitment to the CoC, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
he/she has been furnished a copy of the CoC, has read and understood the CoC, accepted to comply
with the CoC and understood that any breach of the CoC may result in disciplinary action being taken
against him/her. The CoC is available on the Company’s website.

Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment

In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group has
adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Gifts Policy”) on 6 July 2020.

The Gifts Policy applies to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual employees,
consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).

The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Gifts Policy to avoid conflict of interest or the
appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing between the
Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s reputation or be
in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.

The Gifts Policy was published in the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing employees as
well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email.

In February 2024, an online annual refresher course on awareness of the CoC and Gifts Policy was
implemented for all the employees to ensure their knowledge on the CoC and Gifts Policy are up to date.

All new recruits will also be briefed on the Gifts Policy during the onboarding programme.

For enhancement, the Gifts Policy was revised in 2022 with new clauses, definitions and declaration form.

The Gifts Policy is also published on the Company’s website.

Whistle Blowing Policy

The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
& Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:

a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;

b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than
     overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
     legal standards; and

c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
     regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
     appropriate actions.

                                              91 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.
            All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud,
            misconduct or any integrity concerns to Mr Quah Poh Keat, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
            of the Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.
            Sustainability Management
            The Board together with the Management are committed and responsible towards the governance of
            sustainability in the Group including setting the sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. Detailed
            information on the Group’s approaches towards addressing sustainability risks and opportunities are
            provided in the Sustainability Report on pages 29 to 84 of this Annual Report.

      II. Board Composition

            Composition and Balance of the Board
            There are currently 9 Directors on the Board comprising 2 Executive Directors and 7 Non-Executive
            Directors of whom 3 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board provides for
            a diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations and
            decision-making.
            The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
            with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
            public services, education and legal.
            The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
            a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.
            The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender, age,
            cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business development
            and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge.
            Currently, the Board comprises amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity, age and
            gender diversity with 2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.
            The size and composition of the Board are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee via the
            Performance Evaluation. The Board is satisfied with the current composition in terms of size, skills and
            experience, diversity of age, gender and background which has ensured well-balanced views to facilitate
            effective decision making.
            As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
            appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
            to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 6 to 13 of this Annual
            Report.
            Appointment and Re-election of Directors
            The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. The Company has a Directors’
            Fit and Proper Policy (“Policy”) which serves as a guide to the Nomination Committee and the Board
            in their review and assessment of candidates for appointment onto the Board as well as Directors who
            are seeking for re-election. The Policy also sets out the fit and proper criteria for the appointment and
            re-election of Directors. The Policy is to ensure that each of the Directors possesses the character,
            integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time commitment to discharge
            his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.

92 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The Nomination Committee shall assess each candidate for new appointment as Director based on the fit
and proper criteria as spelt out in the Policy before recommending to the Board for approval.

For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.

As for the appointment of Key Senior Management of the Group, it is based on merit and with due regards
for diversity in skills, experience, age and gender.

The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.

In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.

A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.

Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.

Independence of Directors

The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.

In line with the amended Listing Requirements, the Board Charter provides that the tenure of an
Independent Director shall not be more than a cumulative period of 12 years.

Each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual
Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation to ensure that each
of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the Listing Requirements.

Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.

Board Committees

The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.

The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.

                                              93 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)

Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as follows:

Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka Setia               Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris (Chairman)
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain           Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Quah Poh Keat                                       Independent Non-Executive Director

The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:

a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
     Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
     Committees of the Board;

b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
     vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
     Chairman and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director;

c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
     Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
     Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;

d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
     the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;

e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
     Executive or Non-Executive Director;

f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and

g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary
     to fulfill its responsibilities.

The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
and Individual Director for year 2024 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director
on a confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised a Board and Board Committees Performance
Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
composition, operations, roles and responsibilities, addressing the Company’s material sustainability
risks and opportunities and performance of the Chairman.

In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
of its Chairman.

Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed based on his/her contribution to interaction, quality
of input, understanding of his/her role and fit and proper criteria to ensure that each of the Directors
possesses the character, integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time
commitment to discharge his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.

Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
achieved the strong ratings.

94 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
to the Board that:

• The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities
     professionally and effectively.

• Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her
     role and responsibility towards an effective Board.

• All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the
     Listing Requirements.

• All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and
     in exercising their decision-making.

• Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Mr Teh Wee Chye,
     Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain and Mr Azhari Arshad who are retiring by rotation and
     being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.

III. Remuneration

     Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management

     The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
     of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
     The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
     Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
     package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
     incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
     Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
     and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long-term goals of the Group.

     The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
     Directors are paid Directors’ fees, Board Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance for each
     Board and Board Committee meeting they attend. In addition, the Company reimburses reasonable
     expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their duties.

     Remuneration Committee

     The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
     consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors as
     follows:

Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon (Chairman)     Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                    Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka Setia  Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris             Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Maznah bin Abdul Jalil

                                       95 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:
            a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the

                 Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;
            b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company

                 or Group;
            c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination

                 payments and compensation commitments;
            d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the

                 Company or Group;
            e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will

                 form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and
            f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it

                 deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
            The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’ fees, Board
            Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees,
            the Committee ensures that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with
            their scope of responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee
            also reviews and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior
            Management for the Board’s approval.
            Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
            Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
            the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
            remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
            the shareholders at the AGM.
            Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
            in respect of financial year 2024 are disclosed in the CG Report.

     PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

      I. Audit & Risk Management Committee

            The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
            report are presented on pages 101 to 104 of this Annual Report.

      II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

            The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
            operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal control provides reasonable but
            not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.
            The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 105 to 109 of this Annual
            Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.

96 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
                    RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

I. Engagement with Stakeholders

     Financial Reporting

     The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
     financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
     of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
     contained in this Annual Report as important source of information for shareholders, analysts and investors
     to review the Group’s financial and business performance.

     The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
     approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
     are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
     consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.

     Corporate Disclosure

     The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
     a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
     stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
     compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.

     Communication with Stakeholders

     The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and
     Circular/Statement to Shareholders as well as the announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
     and Press Releases on quarterly financial announcements, material information and corporate proposals
     are the principal channels for dissemination of information to its investors, stakeholders and the public
     generally.

     The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
     information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the Corporate Profile,
     Directors’ Profile, Financial Results, Annual Reports, Announcements released to Bursa Malaysia
     Securities Berhad, Research Reports, Constitution of the Company, Board Charter, Terms of Reference
     of Board Committees, Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report,
     Sustainability, Minutes of General Meetings, Code of Conduct, Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and
     Entertainment, Whistle Blowing Policy, Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust, Directors’ Fit and Proper
     Policy, Human Rights and Labour Standard Policy, dividend information, corporate news, operations and
     products of the Group.

     From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
     analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.

     In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
     via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.

     As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns
     to an independent director, the Board had appointed Mr Quah Poh Keat as the Senior Independent
     Non-Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and shareholders may
     contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.

                                                97 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
   Corporate Governance
   Overview Statement (cont’d)

            The Group continues to engage with each of its stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, regulators,
            customers, suppliers, employees and other communities through a variety of approaches to address their
            concerns and maintain an open communication. The summary of the engagement platforms with the
            various stakeholders is provided in the Sustainability Report on page 35 of this Annual Report.

      II. Conduct of General Meetings

            The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
            and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
            to participate in the proceedings.
            In line with best corporate governance practice, the Notice of AGM is issued to the shareholders 28 days
            prior to the meeting to provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting
            decision at the AGM.
            The Company had successfully conducted its virtual AGM on 16 May 2024 through live streaming and
            online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities.
            The conduct of the virtual General Meeting was in compliance with the Constitution of the Company
            which allows General Meeting to be held using any technology or electronic means.
            As an effort to encourage engagement with the shareholders, questions in relation to the agenda items,
            business and performance of the Company may be emailed to the Company by the shareholders prior
            to the General Meeting at any time from the day of notice of General Meeting and up to 48 hours before
            the meeting. On the day of the meeting, every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions
            and seek clarification during the live webcast by posing questions through the messaging window facility
            of the Virtual Meeting Portal which was opened concurrently with the Virtual Meeting Portal an hour
            before the commencement of the meeting.
            Questions posed by shareholders were read out during the “Questions and Answers” session and the
            Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director or Chief Financial Officer had responded
            to all the relevant questions raised and provided clarification accordingly. As such, the shareholders had
            experienced real time interaction with the Board during the General Meeting.
            During the AGM, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director had also presented the overview
            of the financial performance of the Group and business outlook.
            In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were voted
            by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions using
            the RPEV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed to verify
            all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were displayed
            on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same day.
            The full minutes of the AGM detailing the meeting proceedings, including issues and concerns raised by
            the shareholders together with the responses of the Company, were published on the Company’s website
            for the information and benefit of all the shareholders of the Company no later than 30 business days after
            the conclusion of the General Meeting.

98 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Additional Compliance
Information

The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.

1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposal

     Disposal of 49% equity interest pursuant to strategic partnership with Tyson International Holding
     Company (“Tyson”)

     On 31 May 2021, the share purchase agreement (“SPA”) entered into between the Company and Tyson for
     the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd (“DTSB”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
     Company, to Tyson for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to be satisfied wholly by cash,
     in conjunction with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson, was completed.

     The disposal consideration is to be received in 3 tranches - Initial Consideration, First Earnout Consideration
     and Second Earnout Consideration. The Initial Consideration and the First Earnout Consideration have been
     received in 2021 and 2023 respectively. The Second Earnout Consideration will be assessed, subject to
     conditions being met, based on the financial targets of DTSB Group for the financial year ended (“FYE”) 2023.

     Based on the Profit Guarantee Account, the EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
     amortisation) of DTSB Group for the FYE 2021 was less than RM54 million and as such Tyson is entitled
     to the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million. On 16 August 2022, the Company remitted the Profit
     Guarantee Payment of RM15 million to Tyson. The net Initial Consideration proceeds is RM169.944 million
     after deducting the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million.

     The summary of the utilisation of Initial Consideration proceeds is as follows:-

Description of                   Initial    Actual     Balance of Initial   Expected Time
Utilisation of Proceeds    Consideration  Utilisation   Consideration           Frame for
                                          (RM’000)          Proceeds
Repayment of bank             Proceeds                     Unutilised         Utilisation of
borrowings                    (RM’000)                      (RM’000)        Proceeds (from
                                                                           date of receipt of
Estimated expenses in                                                        the proceeds)
relation to the Strategic
Partnership                170,944        170,944      -                   Within 6 months

Total                      14,000         # 14,060     -                   Within 1 month

Profit Guarantee Payment   184,944        185,004      -

Net Total                  (15,000)

                           169,944

# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.

For FYE 2022, DTSB Group’s EBITDA and net debt were greater than RM141 million and RM44 million
respectively. As such, the First Earnout Consideration was adjusted to RM119.971 million and received on
13 December 2023, which was lower than the First Earnout Consideration of RM140 million.

                                                    99 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Additional Compliance
Information (cont’d)

The summary of the utilisation of First Earnout Consideration proceeds is as follows:-

Description of           First Earnout    Actual       Balance of                        Expected Time
Utilisation of Proceeds  Consideration  Utilisation  First Earnout                           Frame for
                                        (RM’000)     Consideration
Repayment of bank           Proceeds                                                       Utilisation of
borrowings                  (RM’000)                    Proceeds                         Proceeds (from
                                                       Unutilised                       date of receipt of
Total                                                   (RM’000)                          the proceeds)

                         119,971        119,971           -                             Within 6 months

                         119,971        119,971           -

On 15 October 2024, the Company received a confirmation letter from Tyson on the Second Earnout
Account prepared based on the audited financial statements of DTSB Group for FYE 2023. The estimated
Second Earnout Consideration was RM140 million. As the DTSB Group’s EBITDA for FYE 2023 of
RM104.577 million was lesser than the targeted EBITDA of RM173 million, the shortfall amount is multiplied
by 1.5 times to arrive at the amount of RM102.635 million which was deducted from the estimated Second
Earnout Consideration. As the DTSB Group’s net Cash for FYE 2023 was a negative number, the Second
Earnout Consideration was reduced by an amount of RM63.197 million which is equal to (a) the Net Cash
Deducted Amount multiplied by (b) the sum of the absolute value of the net Cash for FYE 2023 plus
the 2023 Net Cash Target. As the aggregate amount deducted from the Second Earnout Consideration
was RM165.832 million, the Second Earnout Consideration was zero.

Hence, the Initial Consideration together with the First Earnout Consideration of RM289.916 million form the
aggregate and total Disposal Consideration.

2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

     The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
     PLT, member firms of KPMG International Limited and local affiliates of KPMG PLT by the Group and the
     Company for financial year 2024 are as follows:

Audit Fees                               Group                                          Company
                                        (RM’000)                                        (RM’000)

                                           370                                              137

Non-Audit Fees                                       410                                307
Total
                                                     780                                444

        3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

               There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
               and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2024 or entered into since the end
               of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 27 to the financial
               statements on pages 190 and 191 of this Annual Report.

        4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature

               The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 27 to the
               financial statements on page 190 of this Annual Report.

100 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2024.

Composition

Chairman:    Quah Poh Keat
             (Independent Non-Executive Director)

Members:     Datuk Oh Chong Peng
             (Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman)

             Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
             (Independent Non-Executive Director)

The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 3 members, a majority of whom are
Independent Non-Executive Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).

Chairman of the Committee, Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) whilst Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.

The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.

Meetings

During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:

Members                                                Attendance
Quah Poh Keat                                                5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                          5/5
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil                               5/5

At the request of the Committee, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.

The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function had attended the quarterly meetings of the Committee to
report on the internal audit plan and internal audit and risk management reports.

During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.

The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary maintains minutes
of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.

                                                   101 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Audit & Risk Management
    Committee Report (cont’d)

       Terms of Reference

         The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
         responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.

       Summary of the Work of the Committee

         The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
         of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 were as follows:
         a. Financial Reporting

               i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
                    to the Board for approval.

               ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
                    and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.

               iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
                    standards and treatments used in the financial statements.

         b. Internal Audit
               i. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
                    which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
                    to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
                    adequate scope and coverage of the activities of the Group.
                    Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
                    Internal Audit and Risk Management Function at its quarterly meeting.
               ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Internal
                    Audit and Risk Management Function at the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The Committee
                    appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in resolving
                    audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.

         c. External Audit
               i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
                    audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan and Strategy for the Group for
                    financial year 2024 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus
                    areas.
               ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
                    and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
                    auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
               iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
                    and findings noted in the course of the audit.
               iv. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
                    and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
                    of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
                    for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
                    Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
                    accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

102 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
          The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
          to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.

          Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
          Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
          the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
          auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
          auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
          competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
          audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
          the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
          at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.

d. Risk Management

     i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
          the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.

     ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
          by the Committee, being the delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the
          SORMIC.

          Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
          assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
          disclosure in the Annual Report.

          The Committee authorised the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company
          and the Chief Financial Officer to sign the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC,
          for and on behalf of the Committee.

e. Sustainability

     i. Reviewed the Materiality Matrix on prioritisation of the Material Sustainability Matters for 2023-2025
          which was plotted in accordance with the degree of materiality and the relative relevance of the
          Material Matters based on the outcome of the materiality assessment survey participated by the
          Senior Management.

     ii. Reviewed the pre-assurance report (“the Report”) for selected sustainability indicators of the Group
          for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 which was presented by KPMG PLT upon performing
          assurance readiness procedures to determine whether the preconditions for assurance as required
          by ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagement Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
          Information, were present for all the Common Indicators in the Sustainability Performance Data for 2023.

Internal Audit Function

The Group outsourced its internal audit and risk management function to an independent professional
company, Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng Governance Sdn Bhd, which operates independently from the operating
units. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function (“IARMF”) undertook the internal audit functions
based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by the Committee.

The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARMF as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.

The IARMF reported directly to the Committee who reviewed and approved the IARMF’s annual audit plan,
financial budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function was adequately resourced with
competent and proficient internal auditors.

                                                103 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Audit & Risk Management
    Committee Report (cont’d)

         During the year, the IARMF conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
         internal audit plan to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems.
         On a quarterly basis, the results of the internal audit reviews and recommendations for improvement were
         presented at the Audit & Risk Management Committee Meetings and subsequently reported to the Board.
         In addition, the status of the implementation of corrective actions to address control weaknesses is also
         followed up by the IARMF to ensure that these actions have been satisfactorily implemented.
         The total costs incurred for maintaining the IARMF for year 2024 were approximately RM196,000.

104 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“MFM”) is pleased to present this
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

Board Responsibility

The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks

     to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to

     ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

Internal Control

Risk Management

The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.

Risk Management Framework

The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.

                                                105 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statement on Risk Management
    and Internal Control (cont’d)

         Internal Audit and Risk Management Function will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
         them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
         Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
         highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.

        Control Structure

         • The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
               findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
               measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
               the system of internal control.

         • An independent Internal Audit and Risk Management Function reports directly to the Audit & Risk
               Management Committee. Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management
               Committee and the plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal
               control and to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including
               policies and procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that
               appropriate actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.

         • The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
               procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
               ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.

106 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
     and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
     a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
     and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.

• The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly
     to review and resolve key operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including
     issues of risks and internal controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.

• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
     cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.

• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
     and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
     training courses.

• The Group’s Code of Conduct (“the CoC”) is established to set out the ethical standards to all directors
     and employees in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors,
     the wider community and the environment.

• The Group has adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Gifts Policy”) as part of its
     measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance with Section
     17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009. Annual refresher course on awareness of the
     CoC and Gifts Policy is conducted for all the employees to ensure their knowledge on the CoC and Gifts
     Policy are up to date. The corruption risk assessment is integrated into the Enterprise Risk Management
     of the Group and the review of the Risk Scorecard is carried out on an annual basis.

• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
     raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.

• The Group has the Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust (“the Policy”) in place to comply with all applicable
     antitrust and competition laws wherever it does business with. As involvement in antitrust or competition
     laws infringements will be considered misconduct and have serious consequences to the Group, it is the
     responsibility of every employee of the Group to fully comply with the Policy.

Significant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group

a. Business risks

     The Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
     As such, the Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
     demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase in
     the cost of labour and raw material prices. The management continuously seek to limit these risks through
     amongst others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of the Group’s business.

                                                107 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statement on Risk Management
    and Internal Control (cont’d)

        b. Availability and cost of raw materials

               Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of the Group’s
               total cost of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent
               on market conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect the Group’s profitability
               and results of operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, the Group may find it difficult
               to obtain the amount of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. The Group has
               taken relevant steps to hedge its exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts.
               In addition, the Group has good business relationships with its long term major suppliers and where
               possible, source its supplies from a variety of suppliers.

        c. Biosecurity

               In combating biosecurity risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
               and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
               exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
               will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.

               Disease and Virus

               Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
               Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds.

               The Group has strict biosecurity measures in place at its hatchery facilities and poultry farms, closed
               house system at the poultry farms and structured vaccination programs with pharmaceutical companies
               for disease prevention and control. These lower the risk of bird mortality, ensure undisrupted operations
               for food security as well as protect the environment and the health of the workers.

        d. Food Safety & Quality

               Ensuring safe and nutritious food products are crucial for the Group to meet the relevant food standards,
               consumer expectations, its branding and reputation. As its commitment to food safety and quality, the
               Group has obtained the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) certification, Food Safety
               System Certification (“FSSC”) 22000, HALAL certification, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice
               for Food), ISO 9001 (Quality Management System), ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management System),
               Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices Certification Scheme (“myGAP”) and MeSTI (Food Safety is
               Responsibility of the Industry) certification. With all these certifications and food management systems,
               food safety and quality are addressed through the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and
               physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution
               and consumption of the finished products.

        e. Foreign exchange fluctuations

               The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases of raw materials and borrowings that
               are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities. The
               currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”) and Vietnamese Dong (“VND”).

               As such, the Group has taken sufficient steps to monitor closely its exposure to the foreign currency
               movements and where appropriate, hedge its financial exposure to the foreign currency fluctuations by
               entering into forward contracts. However, there can be no assurance that any significant changes in
               exchange rate fluctuations or foreign exchange control regulations will not have any adverse impact upon
               the Group’s business.

108 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Review of this Statement by External Auditors

The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 , Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial year ended
31 December 2024 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause them to
believe that this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has not been
prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether this Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.

Conclusion

Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer in this respect. Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards
operating a sound system of internal control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed,
added or updated in line with the changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, its subsidiaries and joint venture
company, Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd and its subsidiaries only. Joint venture company, PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia, is excluded as it has its own internal audit function while an associate is excluded because it has
ceased its operation. However, the Group’s interests in its material joint venture and associate are served
through representations on the Board of Directors of the respective joint venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 27 March 2025.

                                                109 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
110 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Reports &
Financial Statements

                   112 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
                   113 Directors’ Report
                   120 Balance Sheets
                   122 Income Statements
                   124 Statements of Comprehensive Income
                   125 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
                   126 Statement of Changes in Equity
                   127 Statements of Cash Flows
                   131 Notes to the Financial Statements
                   192 Statement by Directors
                   193 Statutory Declaration
                   194 Independent Auditors’ Report
    Directors’ Responsibility Statement

       For the Audited Financial Statements

         In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
         Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
         affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
         In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the Directors have:
         • Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
         • Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
         • Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures

              disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
         The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
         reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
         the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
         taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
         and other irregularities.

112 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report

for the year ended 31 December 2024

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

Principal activities

The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 6 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

Subsidiaries

The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.

Results

				 Group                                                                                      Company
				RM’000                                                                                        RM’000

Profit for the year attributable to:  58,115                                                    8,885
 Owners of the Company                19,108                                                          -
 Non-controlling interests

                                      77,223                                                    8,885

Reserves and provisions

There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except as disclosed in the financial statements.

Dividends

Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:

(i) a second interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM18,587,000
        in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 on 29 March 2024;

(ii) a first interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM18,587,000
        in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 on 27 September 2024; and

(iii) a second interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM18,587,000
        in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 on 30 December 2024.

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

                                      113 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Directors’ Report

       for the year ended 31 December 2024 (cont’d)

         Directors of the Company
         Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:

           Datuk Oh Chong Peng
           Teh Wee Chye
           Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
           Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
           Azhari Arshad
           Quah Poh Keat
           Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
           Lim Pang Boon
           Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
         List of Directors of subsidiaries
         Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
         the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:
           Datuk Oh Chong Peng
           Teh Wee Chye
           Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
           Azhari Arshad
           Lim Pang Boon
           Le Cong Anh
           Pham Ngoc Tien
           Tran Quoc Hoang
           Huynh Duc Chinh
           Hideki Oya
           Khng Poh Leng, Douglas
           Tan Keng Seng
           Shota Takahashi (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
           Takuya Mori (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
           Yau Tee Peng (Appointed on 27 April 2024)
           Chua Kiat Hwa (Resigned on 26 April 2024)
           Ryuichiro Yasuda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)
           Yoshito Manda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)

114 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests

The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks
(“RCULS”) and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries)
of those who were Directors at financial year end (including the interests of the spouses or children of the
Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings are as follows:

                                                           Number of ordinary shares

                                           At Acquired/		                                   At

                                           1.1.2024 Converted(**)           Disposed 31.12.2024

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest                            123,764,911     75,318,790**     - 199,083,701
Teh Wee Chye                                      23,087          4,000**
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                 8,250         3,000**   -         27,087
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                       7,078,500     2,574,000**     -         11,250
Lim Pang Boon                                   488,585        132,240**
Azhari Arshad                                   600,000                     - 9,652,500
                                                            8,564,539
                                                                            -         620,825

                                                                            - 9,164,539

Deemed interest                            63,954,360      23,256,130**     - 87,210,490
Teh Wee Chye                                    63,000                   -
                                                                            -         63,000
 - own                                     31,239,800          100,000**
 - others*                                                                  - 31,339,800
Azhari Arshad
Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka            34,000          18,600           -         52,600
 Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris*

Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye

in subsidiary companies

Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.         7,000,001       -                - 7,000,001
                                                                            - 10,200,000
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd.                    10,200,000      -

                                           Interest in capital contribution denominated in

                                                           Vietnamese Dong (VND)

								                                   At			                                            At
								
								                                   1.1.2024        Acquired         Disposed 31.12.2024

                                           VND’000         VND’000          VND’000   VND’000

Vimaflour Ltd.                             345,961,284     -                - 345,961,284

                                                           115 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report

for the year ended 31 December 2024 (cont’d)

Directors’ interests (cont’d)

                                                                   Number of RCULS

								                                             At			                                At
								
                                                     1.1.2024      Acquired Converted 31.12.2024

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest                                      37,659,395    - (37,659,395)         -
Teh Wee Chye                                                2,000
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                         1,500  -         (2,000)      -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                               1,287,000    -         (1,500)      -
Lim Pang Boon                                             66,120
                                                                   -         (1,287,000)  -

                                                                   -         (66,120)     -

Deemed interest                                      11,628,065    - (11,628,065)         -
Teh Wee Chye                                              50,000
Azhari Arshad                                                      -         (50,000)     -

                                                                   Number of warrants

								                                             At			                                At
								
                                                     1.1.2024      Acquired  Expired 31.12.2024

Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

Direct interest                                      27,200,944    - (27,200,944)         -
Teh Wee Chye                                                4,387
Datuk Oh Chong Peng                                         1,250  -         (4,387)      -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                               1,060,000    -         (1,250)      -
Azhari Arshad                                             62,500
                                                                   -         (1,060,000)  -

                                                                   -         (62,500)     -

Deemed interest                                      9,690,052     -         (9,690,052)  -
Teh Wee Chye

* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the Companies
      Act 2016 in Malaysia.

** Mandatory conversion of RCULS upon maturity on 24 January 2024.

By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.

None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2024 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.

116 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ benefits

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a
related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in
which the Director has a substantial financial interest.

The Directors’ benefits paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2024 are as follows:

					From

				 From the subsidiary

				 Company companies

				RM’000                                              RM’000

Directors of the Company:                        980    -
 Fees
 Remuneration                                    6,942  360
 Estimated monetary value of any other benefits
                                                 95     -

                                                 8,017  360

There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

Issue of shares

During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company increased from
RM537,262,000 to RM645,415,000 by way of:

(i) issuance of 216,189,518 new ordinary shares amounting to RM108,095,000 pursuant to the conversion
        of 108,094,759 RCULS; and

(ii) issuance of 72,125 new ordinary shares amounting to RM58,000 pursuant to the exercise of warrants.

The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.

There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.

Options granted over unissued shares

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

Indemnity and insurance costs

During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
Company was RM17,827.

                                                 117 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Directors’ Report

       for the year ended 31 December 2024 (cont’d)

         Other statutory information
         Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
         steps to ascertain that:
         (i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and
         (ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been

                  written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
         At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
         (i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts

                  in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
         (ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and

                  of the Company misleading, or
         (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of

                  the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
         (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated

                  in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
         At the date of this report, there does not exist:
         (i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial

                  year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
         (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the

                  financial year.
         No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
         to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
         opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
         their obligations as and when they fall due.
         In the opinion of the Directors, except for the Group’s and the Company’s impairment of investment in a joint
         venture amounting to RM42,068,000 and RM65,442,000, respectively as disclosed in Note 7, the financial
         performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 have not been
         substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature nor has any such
         item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the end of that financial year and the date of this
         report.
          

118 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company during the year are RM335,000 and RM226,000,
respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
27 March 2025

                                                119 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Balance Sheets

as at 31 December 2024

		Group                                                                    Company

                                   Note              2024       2023       2024           2023

		 RM’000                                                       RM’000     RM’000         RM’000

Assets                             2                 472,187    446,408    247,591          233,678
 Property, plant and equipment                                              12,657            13,912
 Right-of-use assets               3                 15,333     16,605          665               805
 Intangible assets                                                            4,498            4,555
 Investment properties             4                 1,482      1,450
 Investments in subsidiaries                                               141,348          141,348
 Investments in joint ventures     5                 4,769      4,826      546,175          611,617
 Investment in an associate
 Deferred tax assets               6                 -          -                   -                 -
                                                                                    -                 -
                                   7                 648,879    709,051
                                                                           952,934        1,005,915
                                   8                 -          -

                                   9                 5,062      6,164

Total non-current assets                             1,147,712  1,184,504

Trade and other receivables,       10                443,387    408,797      191,018        192,351
 including derivatives                                                          3,028          3,377
                                                     3,740      5,408
Prepayments                                                                  127,325        158,436
Inventories                        11                519,752    523,921                -       1,355
Current tax assets                                                                     -              -
Fixed deposits                                       3,109      4,446
Cash and cash equivalents                                                      34,216         52,952
                                   12                334,364    332,717
                                                                             355,587        408,471
                                   13                71,607     87,350         32,786         33,597

                                                     1,375,959  1,362,639    388,373        442,068

Asset classified as held for sale  14                32,786     33,597     1,341,307      1,447,983

Total current assets                                 1,408,745  1,396,236

Total assets                                         2,556,457  2,580,740

Equity                             15                645,415    537,262    645,415        537,262
 Share capital                                                                      -      77,410
 RCULS - Equity                    15.2              -          77,410
 Reserves                                                                  231,168        308,738
                                                     659,850    727,282
Total equity attributable to                                               876,583        923,410
 owners of the Company             15                1,305,265  1,341,954           -              -

Non-controlling interests          6.1               110,573    104,027    876,583        923,410

Total equity                                         1,415,838  1,445,981

120 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
		Group                                                    Company

                               Note  2024       2023       2024           2023

		 RM’000                                       RM’000     RM’000         RM’000

Liabilities                    9     16,735     18,136         15,684         17,119
 Deferred tax liabilities                                      17,000         51,000
 Loans and borrowings          16    22,780     72,060
 Lease liabilities                                              8,134          9,379
                                     9,004      9,857
                                                               40,818         77,498
Total non-current liabilities        48,519     100,053
                                                                       -       2,702
RCULS - Liabilities            15.2  -          2,702
Trade and other payables,                                      55,970         50,575
                               17    111,738    110,127      364,037        392,483
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings           16    969,668    913,622         1,584          1,315
Lease liabilities                                               2,315                 -
Current tax liabilities              1,847      1,639
                                                             423,906        447,075
                                     8,847      6,616
                                                             464,724        524,573
Total current liabilities            1,092,100  1,034,706
                                                           1,341,307      1,447,983
Total liabilities                    1,140,619  1,134,759

Total equity and liabilities         2,556,457  2,580,740

The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                         121 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Income Statements

for the year ended 31 December 2024

		Group                                                                       Company

                                     Note            2024        2023         2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                        RM’000       RM’000     RM’000

Revenue                              18              3,121,334   3,148,901    735,594    779,166
Cost of goods sold                                                            (606,679)  (677,265)
                                                     (2,824,179) (2,912,486)
                                                                              128,915    101,901
Gross profit                                         297,155     236,415

Other income                                         18,430      18,829       46,509     40,633
Distribution expenses                                (97,005)    (92,648)     (48,895)   (47,447)
Administrative expenses                              (28,539)    (31,427)     (17,647)   (20,574)
Net loss on impairment of
                                                      (1,392)     (1,357)     (490)      (873)
 financial instruments                                (3,104)     (1,342)     (842)       (21)
Other expenses

Results from operating activities                    185,545     128,470      107,550    73,619

Interest expense                                     (41,748)    (57,154)     (17,956)   (28,138)
Interest income                                      21,225      25,548          3,961     4,247

Net finance costs                                    (20,523)    (31,606)     (13,995)   (23,891)

Results from operating activities

after net finance costs		                            165,022     96,864       93,555     49,728
                                                              -  (71,065)             -  (71,065)
Loss on remeasurement of contingent                                                      (35,765)
                                                     (42,068)            -    (65,442)
consideration receivable             19                (7,418)     5,932              -          -
                                                              -                       -          -
Impairment of investment in a joint                                  231                 (57,102)
                                                                              28,113     (13,342)
venture                              7.1                                      (19,228)   (70,444)

Share of (loss)/profit of equity-                                               8,885

accounted joint ventures, net of tax 7

Share of profit of equity-accounted

associate, net of tax		

Profit/(Loss) before tax             19              115,536     31,962
Tax expense
                                     20              (38,313)    (26,677)

Profit/(Loss) for the year                           77,223      5,285

122 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
		Group                                                      Company

                                      Note  2024    2023     2024     2023

		 RM’000                                           RM’000   RM’000   RM’000

Profit/(Loss) attributable to:              58,115  (6,681)  8,885    (70,444)
Owners of the Company                       19,108  11,966         -          -
Non-controlling interests
                                                             8,885    (70,444)
Profit/(Loss) for the year                  77,223  5,285

Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary

share (sen)                           21    4.74    (0.65)

Basic earnings per ordinary share

(sen) (adjusted)*                     21    8.17    6.30

Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary

share (sen)                           21    4.74    (0.46)

Diluted earnings per ordinary share

(sen) (adjusted)*                     21    8.17    5.29

* The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share exclude the impairment loss of investment in a joint
      venture of RM42,068,000 in the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (2023: loss on remeasurement
      of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000).

The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                         123 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Comprehensive Income

for the year ended 31 December 2024

		Group                                                         Company

		 2024                                                 2023    2024                                              2023

		 RM’000                                               RM’000  RM’000                                            RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year                    77,223    5,285   8,885                                             (70,444)

Other comprehensive income/(expense)
 for the year, net of tax

Item that is or may be reclassified           (44,998)  16,050        -                                                   -
 subsequently to the income statement                           8,885                                             (70,444)

Foreign currency translation differences for
 foreign operations

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for      32,225    21,335
 the year

Total comprehensive income/(expense)          19,023     8,122  8,885                                             (70,444)
 attributable to:                             13,202    13,213        -                                                   -

Owners of the Company                                           8,885                                             (70,444)
Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income/(expense) for      32,225    21,335
 the year

                       The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.

124 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 December 2024

			                                       Attributable to owners of the Company

		 		                                     Non-distributable		      Distributable

							Other				 Non-

				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		 controlling                                         Total
                                                                                                             equity
Group		                       Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings        Total interests   RM’000

				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2023		 535,902               78,694    17,770 93,065  (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093

Foreign currency translation                    -
                                                -
differences for foreign
                                                -
operations		 -                            (1,284)   -          -   14,803        - 14,803 1,247 16,050

(Loss)/Profit for the year		      -             -   -          -   - (6,681) (6,681) 11,966 5,285
                                                -
Total comprehensive

income/(expense) for the

year			 -                                           -          -   14,803        (6,681)  8,122    13,213   21,335
                                                                         -             -     27          -       27
Conversion of RCULS           15 1,311              -          -         -             -     42          -       42

Exercise of warrants          15  49                (7)        -

Dividends to owners of the

Company		                     22  -                 -          -   - (30,653) (30,653) (10,863) (41,516)

At 31 December 2023		 537,262 77,410 17,763 93,065 (19,641) 636,095 1,341,954 104,027 1,445,981
				 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15

			                                       Attributable to owners of the Company

		 		                                     Non-distributable		      Distributable

							Other				 Non-

				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		 controlling                                         Total
                                                                                                             equity
Group		                       Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings        Total interests   RM’000

				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2024		 537,262               77,410    17,763 93,065  (19,641) 636,095 1,341,954 104,027 1,445,981

Foreign currency translation                     -
                                                 -
differences for foreign
                                                 -
operations		                      -       (77,410)  -          -   (39,092)      - (39,092) (5,906) (44,998)

Profit for the year		             -              -  -          -   - 58,115 58,115 19,108 77,223
                                                 -
Total comprehensive                              -

(expense)/income for the

year			                           -                 -          -   (39,092) 58,115        19,023   13,202   32,225
                                                                                                -        -        -
Conversion of RCULS           15 108,095            (10,732)   -   - (19,953)                            -
                                                                                               49                49
Exercise of warrants          15  58                (9)        -   -             -

Transfer of warrant reserve

upon expiry of warrants       15  -                 (7,022)    -   - 7,022                -        -        -

Dividends to owners of the

Company		                     22  -                 -          -   - (55,761) (55,761) (6,656) (62,417)

At 31 December 2024		 645,415             -         - 93,065 (58,733) 625,518 1,305,265 110,573 1,415,838

				 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15 Note 15

           The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                    125 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 December 2024

                                          Non-distributable   Distributable

		                                        Share RCULS - Warrant Retained                                             Total
                                                                                                                    equity
Company                             Note  capital  Equity reserve earnings                                        RM’000

		                                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2023                         535,902  78,694     17,770      392,072 1,024,438

Loss and total comprehensive

expense for the year

Loss for the year		                       -               -   -           (70,444) (70,444)

Other comprehensive income for the                        -

year		 -                                                  -   -           -                                       -
                                                   (1,284)
Total comprehensive expense for
                                                          -
the year		                                -               -   -           (70,444) (70,444)

Conversion of RCULS                 15    1,311               -           -                                       27

Exercise of warrants                15    49                  (7)         -                                       42

Dividends to owners of the Company 22     -                   -           (30,653) (30,653)

At 31 December 2023/                      537,262  77,410     17,763      290,975 923,410
 1 January 2024

Profit and total comprehensive

income for the year

Profit for the year                       -                -          -   8,885                                   8,885

Other comprehensive income for the                         -          -

year		 -                                                   -          -   -                                       -
                                                   (77,410)   (10,732)
Total comprehensive income for
                                                           -         (9)
the year                                  -                                 8,885                                 8,885
                                                           -   (7,022)    (19,953)                                      -
Conversion of RCULS                 15 108,095             -          -
                                                                                  -                                   49
Exercise of warrants                15    58

Transfer of warrant reserve upon

expiry of warrants                  15    -                               7,022                                   -

Dividends to owners of the Company 22     -                               (55,761) (55,761)

At 31 December 2024                       645,415  -          - 231,168 876,583

                                          Note 15 Note 15 Note 15

                       The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.

126 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2024

		Group                                                             Company

                                      Note  2024        2023        2024        2023

		 RM’000                                               RM’000      RM’000      RM’000

Cash flows from operating activities        115,536     31,962      28,113      (57,102)
Profit/(Loss) before tax

Adjustments for:

Amortisation of intangible assets     4         433         330         297         260
                                                   (1)       (23)          (1)       (23)
Bad debt recovered		                              57          57          57          57

Depreciation of investment properties 5     33,754      34,210      16,329      16,722
                                              2,345       2,610       1,691       1,913
Depreciation of property, plant and
                                            42,068              -   65,442      35,765
equipment                             2
                                                    -       197             -           -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets   3            (3)         (3)  (29,406)    (25,350)

Impairment of investment in a joint             (381)       (102)

venture                               7.1           -   71,065
                                                 (80)          (9)
Impairment of investment in an              41,748
                                            (21,225)    57,154
associate                             8                 (25,548)
                                              1,392
Dividend income                                           1,357
                                                206
Net gain on disposal of property,                             20
                                              7,418
plant and equipment and intangible                       (5,932)
                                                    -
assets                                                      (231)      (463)         (48)
                                                (741)                       -   71,065
Loss on remeasurement of contingent                      (2,127)            -
                                                                                      (9)
consideration receivable              19                            17,956      28,138
                                                                    (3,961)     (4,247)
Gain on lease modification
                                                                        490         873
Interest expense                                                         96          19
                                                                            -           -
Interest income                                                             -           -

Net loss on impairment of financial                                 (1,779)     (2,263)

assets                                                              94,861      65,770

Property, plant and equipment

written off

Share of profit/(loss) of equity-

accounted joint ventures, net of tax 7

Share of loss of equity-accounted

associate, net of tax		

Net unrealised gain on foreign

exchange

Operating profit before changes in          222,526     164,987
 working capital		
                                            (44,325)    164,165        1,182    164,635
Changes in working capital:                 (18,745)    103,910      31,111      44,451
 Trade and other receivables,
   prepayments and other financial          11,455        (6,225)      9,601       4,625
   assets
 Inventories                                                        136,755     279,481
 Trade and other payables and
   other financial liabilities

Cash generated from operations              170,911     426,837

                                                        127 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows

for the year ended 31 December 2024 (cont’d)

		Group                                                                      Company

                                       Note          2024       2023         2024         2023

		 RM’000                                                       RM’000       RM’000       RM’000

Cash generated from operations                       170,911    426,837      136,755      279,481
 (cont’d)                                            (41,748)   (56,110)     (17,956)     (27,094)
 Interest paid                                        21,225     25,548
 Interest received                                   (34,806)   (14,550)        3,961        4,247
 Net income tax paid                                                         (16,993)       (5,830)

Net cash from operating activities                   115,582    381,725      105,767      250,804

Cash flows from investing activities

Acquisition of intangible assets       4                 (306)       (774)       (157)       (670)

Acquisition of property, plant and                   (70,741)    (34,792)    (30,654)     (5,013)
                                                             3            3  29,406       25,350
equipment                              2
                                                     (25,062)   (175,498)            -            -
Dividend received
                                                         840          132        779           67
Increase in fixed deposits
                                                             -        892            -            -
Proceeds from disposal of property,
                                                         811              -      811              -
plant and equipment

Proceeds from advances to an

associate                              8

Proceeds from disposal of asset

classified as held for sale

Net cash (used in)/from investing                    (94,455)   (210,037)    185          19,734
 activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Dividends paid to non-controlling

interests                              6              (6,656)    (10,863)              -            -

Dividends paid to owners of the                      (55,761)    (30,653)     (55,761)     (30,653)

Company                                22            31,749     (126,835)     (64,862)    (212,482)
                                                      (2,702)      (5,458)      (2,702)      (5,458)
Proceeds from/(Repayment of)                          (1,762)      (2,068)      (1,412)      (1,750)
                                                                        42           49           42
loans and borrowings, net                                  49
                                                                             (124,688)    (250,301)
RCULS coupon payment                   15

Payment of lease liabilities

Exercise of warrants                   15

Net cash used in financing activities                (35,083)   (175,835)

Net (decrease)/increase in cash

and cash equivalents                                 (13,956)   (4,147)      (18,736)     20,237
                                                      (1,787)    4,787               -            -
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations                 87,350     86,710
                                                                             52,952       32,715
on cash held

Cash and cash equivalents

at 1 January                           13

Cash and cash equivalents              13            71,607     87,350       34,216       52,952
 at 31 December

128 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
(a) Cash outflows for leases as a lessee

		Group                                                   Company

                                    Note  2024    2023    2024     2023

		 RM’000                                         RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Included in net cash from

operating activities:

Payment relating to short-term

leases                              19      107     118   11       11
                                              67      71
Payment relating to leases of
                                          1,865   1,884
low-value assets                    19      421     478   63       67

Payment relating to variable lease

payments not included in the

measurement of lease liabilities 19                       920      829

Interest paid in relation to lease

liabilities                                               351      403

Included in net cash used in              1,762   2,068   1,412    1,750
 financing activities:                                    2,757    3,060

Payment of lease liabilities

Total cash outflows for leases            4,222   4,619

                                                  129 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
                                                                                                                Statements of Cash Flows

                                                                                                                                                                        for the year ended 31 December 2024 (cont’d)

130 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
(b) Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities

		Net				At 31                                                         Net					

		 changes				 December changes					

                        At  from Acquisition		 Foreign 2023/           from Acquisition		 Foreign At 31

                        1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange 1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange December

                        2023 cash flows      lease  of lease movement  2024 cash flows          lease   of lease movement  2024

                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                  RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Group

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits       934,439 (97,183)     -      - 5,362 842,618 103,912                          -             - (23,288) 923,242
                                                                                                     -
Unsecured term loans    171,253 (29,652)     -      - 1,463 143,064 (72,163)                    1,503              - (1,695) 69,206

Lease liabilities       13,423 (2,068)       180    (39)  - 11,496 (1,762)                                         (449)  63 10,851

Total liabilities from  1,119,115 (128,903)  180    (39) 6,825 997,178 29,987                   1,503              (449) (24,920) 1,003,299
 financing activities

Company

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits       534,037 (178,482)    -      - 2,928 358,483 (30,862)                    -                  - 2,416 330,037

Unsecured term loans    119,000 (34,000)     -      -     - 85,000 (34,000)                     -                  -      - 51,000

Lease liabilities       12,303 (1,750)       180    (39)  - 10,694 (1,412)                      462                (26)   - 9,718

Total liabilities from  665,340 (214,232)    180    (39) 2,928 454,177 (66,274)                 462                (26) 2,416 390,755
 financing activities

                        The notes set out on pages 131 to 191 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Notes to the
Financial Statements

Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The addresses of the registered office and
principal place of business of the Company are as follows:

Registered office      Principal place of business

Suite 25.01, Level 25  Suite 28.01, Level 28
Menara Citibank        Menara Citibank
165 Jalan Ampang       165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur     50450 Kuala Lumpur

The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended
31 December 2024 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and
individually referred to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and joint ventures.

The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 6 to the financial
statements.

These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2025.

1. Basis of preparation

       (a) Statement of compliance

                 The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
                 with MFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board
                 (“MFRS Accounting Standards”), IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International
                 Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the requirements of the
                 Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

                 The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments of the MFRS Accounting
                 Standards that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but
                 have not been adopted by the Group and the Company:

                 MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual
                 periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025
                 • Amendments to MFRS 121, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lack of

                         Exchangeability

                       131 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Notes to the
    Financial Statements (cont’d)

       1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

               (a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)

                           MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual
                           periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026
                           • Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments:

                                   Disclosures – Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
                           • Amendments that are part of Annual Improvements – Volume 11:

                                   ➢ Amendments to MFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting
                           		Standards

                                   ➢ Amendments to MFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures
                                   ➢ Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments
                                   ➢ Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements
                                   ➢ Amendments to MFRS 107, Statement of Cash Flows
                           • Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments:
                                   Disclosures – Contracts Referencing Nature-dependent Electricity

                           MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual
                           periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027
                           • MFRS 18, Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
                           • MFRS 19, Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures

                           MFRS Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments effective for annual
                           periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed
                           • Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments

                                   in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
                                   its Associate or Joint Venture

                           The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
                           interpretations and amendments:

                           • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2025 for the amendments that are effective
                                   for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025.

                           • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2026 for the amendments that are effective
                                   for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026.

                           • from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2027 for the accounting standards that are
                                   effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027.

                           The initial application of the accounting standards, interpretations or amendments are not
                           expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and prior period financial
                           statements of the Group and of the Company.

132 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)

(b) Basis of measurement

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for
the following item, which is measured based on the measurement base stated below:

Item                                 Measurement base
Derivative financial instruments     Fair value

(c) Functional and presentation currency

        These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
        functional currency and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.

(d) Use of estimates and judgements

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRS Accounting Standards
requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application
of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
affected.

There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements other than those disclosed in the following notes:

• Note 3 –   extension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases
			          entered into during the year
• Note 7 –   investments in joint ventures
• Note 24 –  measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)

                                     133 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

2. Property, plant and equipment

		Freehold                                                       Plant,				

		                                                   land,       machinery,		 Capital		

		 buildings                                                     fixtures and Motor work-in-

Group                          Note and jetty                    equipment vehicles progress       Total

		 RM’000                                                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2023                                    364,162     430,455     21,534     34,171     850,322
                                                          119       4,508        618    29,547      34,792
Additions                                                     -       (255)     (663)                   (918)
                                                              -       (764)       (29)          -       (793)
Disposals                                                                            -          -           -
                                                      29,344      11,042             -  (40,386)        (449)
Write-off                                                     -           -                 (449)           -
                                                              -               2,438             -
Transfers                                                          (2,438)
                                                        1,042
Transfer to intangible assets  4

Reclassifications

Effect of movements in

exchange rates		                                                 2,407       163        605 4,217

At 31 December 2023/

1 January 2024                                       394,667     444,955     24,061     23,488     887,171
                                                                    6,467     1,027     63,129      70,741
Additions                                            118              (357)     (828)                (1,777)
                                                                   (1,959)           -          -    (2,403)
Disposals                                            (592)          3,320        345         (59)           -
                                                                          -          -  (3,677)         (209)
Write-off                                            (385)                                 (209)

Transfers		                                          12

Transfer to intangible assets  4                     -

Effect of movements in

exchange rates                                       (7,693)     (11,131)    (955)      (2,516) (22,295)

At 31 December 2024                                  386,127     441,295 23,650 80,156 931,228

134 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

		Freehold                                 Plant,				

		                         land,       machinery,		 Capital		

		 buildings                           fixtures and Motor work-in-

Group		 and jetty                      equipment vehicles progress   Total

		 RM’000                                  RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Accumulated depreciation   120,962         266,681     18,203     - 405,846
At 1 January 2023             9,147         23,933      1,130
Depreciation for the year           -           (234)     (662)   - 34,210
Disposals                           -           (745)       (28)
Write-off                           -        (2,259)    2,259     -  (896)
Reclassifications
Effect of movements in          644                               -  (773)

 exchange rates                                                   -  -

                                           1,619       113        - 2,376

At 31 December 2023/       130,753         288,995     21,015     - 440,763
 1 January 2024               9,283         23,357      1,114     - 33,754
                                (300)           (194)     (824)   - (1,318)
Depreciation for the year       (275)        (1,922)           -  - (2,197)
Disposals
Write-off                    (3,206)       (7,950)     (805)      - (11,961)
Effect of movements in

 exchange rates

At 31 December 2024        136,255         302,286 20,500         - 459,041

Carrying amounts           243,200         163,774     3,331 34,171 444,476
At 1 January 2023		

At 31 December 2023/       263,914         155,960     3,046 23,488 446,408
 1 January 2024

At 31 December 2024        249,872         139,009     3,150 80,156 472,187

                                           135 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

2. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

			Plant,

			machinery,		 Capital

		 Buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-

Company                        Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress                            Total
                                                                                                  RM’000
		 RM’000                                                        RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2023                                    246,090     223,781     9,117        175     479,163
                                                                    3,519      255     1,239         5,013
Additions                                            -                (240)   (452)                    (692)
                                                                      (764)       (4)         -        (768)
Disposals                                            -              1,143          -          -            -
                                                                          -        -   (1,143)          (51)
Write-off                                            -                                     (51)

Transfers		                                          -

Transfer to intangible assets  4                     -

At 31 December 2023/                                 246,090     227,439     8,916         220    482,665
 1 January 2024                                           106       3,042      727     26,779      30,654
                                                          (592)        (84)   (391)                 (1,067)
Additions                                                     -    (1,101)         -           -    (1,160)
Disposals                                                   12        457          -        (59)           -
Write-off                                                                                 (469)
Transfers

At 31 December 2024                                  245,616     229,753     9,252     26,471 511,092

Accumulated depreciation                             75,022      150,340     8,332     - 233,694
At 1 January 2023                                     4,910       11,491       321
Depreciation for the year                                    -        (229)   (451)    - 16,722
Disposals                                                    -        (745)       (4)
Write-off                                                                              -          (680)

                                                                                       -          (749)

At 31 December 2023/                                 79,932      160,857     8,198     - 248,987
 1 January 2024                                       4,901       11,047       381
                                                        (300)          (61)   (390)    - 16,329
Depreciation for the year                                    -     (1,064)         -
Disposals                                                                              -          (751)
Write-off		
                                                                                       - (1,064)

At 31 December 2024                                  84,533      170,779     8,189     - 263,501

Carrying amounts                                     171,068     73,441      785       175 245,469
At 1 January 2023

At 31 December 2023/                                 166,158     66,582      718       220 233,678
 1 January 2024

At 31 December 2024                                  161,083     58,974      1,063     26,471 247,591

136 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

2.1 Borrowing costs

Included in additions of the Group are borrowing costs capitalised at 5.44% - 7.98% (2023:
3.90% - 6.00%) per annum amounting to RM1,037,000 (2023: RM2,499,000).

2.2 Material accounting policy information

(a) Recognition and measurement

Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

(b) Depreciation

Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.

The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:

• buildings and jetty                       10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment  4 - 20 years
• motor vehicles                            5 - 10 years

                                            137 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

3. Right-of-use assets

                                                     Leasehold land     Buildings     Total
                                                                RM’000    RM’000   RM’000

Group                                                6,616              12,412     19,028
At 1 January 2023                                          -                180        180
Additions
Depreciation                                          (499)             (2,111)    (2,610)
Lease modification                                         -                 (30)       (30)
Effect of movements in exchange rates                                           -       37
                                                         37

At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024                   6,154              10,451     16,605
Additions                                                  -             1,503      1,503
Depreciation                                                            (1,942)    (2,345)
Lease modification                                    (403)                (369)      (369)
Effect of movements in exchange rates                      -                 51         (61)

                                                      (112)

At 31 December 2024                                  5,639              9,694      15,333

Company                                              4,297              11,378     15,675
At 1 January 2023                                          -                180        180
Additions
Depreciation                                          (130)             (1,783)    (1,913)
Lease modification                                         -                 (30)       (30)

At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024                   4,167              9,745      13,912
Additions                                                  -               462         462
Depreciation
Lease modification                                    (106)             (1,585)    (1,691)
                                                           -                (26)        (26)

At 31 December 2024                                  4,061              8,596      12,657

The Group leases buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that typically run for a
period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.

3.1 Extension options

Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
by the Group. Where applicable, the Group seeks to include extension options in new leases to
provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and
not by the lessors. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain
to exercise the extension options. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to
exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
its control.

As at 31 December 2024, the Group has included all potential future cash flows of exercising the
extension options in the lease liabilities.

138 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)

        3.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease

                 The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it
                 is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and
                 circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset
                 if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.

                 The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing
                 rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates
                 before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term,
                 security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.

        3.3 Material accounting policy information

                 Recognition exemption

                 The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
                 leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
                 recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
                 basis over the lease term.

                 When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the
                 sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to the right-
                 of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head
                 lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described above, then it
                 classifies the sublease as an operating lease.

4. Intangible assets

		                                              Computer software

                                             Note Group Company

		RM’000                                                RM’000

Cost

At 1 January 2023		                             9,165   6,197
                                                          670
Additions		774                                              51
                                                           (16)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment  2  449          (8)
                                                              -
Write-off		(16)

Disposal		(9)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		         43

At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024		            10,406  6,894
                                                          157
Additions		306                                                -
                                                             (3)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment  2  209           -

Write-off		(3)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		         (249)

At 31 December 2024		                           10,669  7,048

                                             139 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

4. Intangible assets (cont’d)

		                                                   Computer software

		 Group Company

		RM’000                                                    RM’000

Accumulated amortisation

At 1 January 2023		                                  8,599  5,846
                                                              260
Amortisation for the year		                          330       (16)
                                                                 (1)
Write-off		(16)                                                   -

Disposal		(1)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		              44

At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024		                 8,956  6,089
                                                              297
Amortisation for the year		                          433         (3)
                                                                  -
Write-off		(3)

Effect of movements in exchange rates		              (199)

At 31 December 2024		                                9,187  6,383

Carrying amounts

At 1 January 2023		                                  566    351

At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024		                 1,450  805

At 31 December 2024		                                1,482  665

4.1 Intangible assets

        Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
        of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
        the computer software for its intended use.

4.2 Material accounting policy information

        Recognition and measurement

        Computer software acquired by the Group is stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation
        and any accumulated impairment losses.

        Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line
        basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.

        The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.

        Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the balance sheet date
        and adjusted, if appropriate.

140 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
5. Investment properties                     Freehold    Buildings     Total
                                                   land    RM’000   RM’000
        Group
                                              RM’000
        Cost
        At 1 January 2023/31 December 2023/  3,943       2,836      6,779

          1 January 2024/31 December 2024          -     1,896      1,896
                                                   -         57         57
        Accumulated depreciation                   -
        At 1 January 2023                          -     1,953      1,953
        Depreciation for the year                  -         57         57

        At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024   3,943       2,010      2,010
        Depreciation for the year            3,943
                                             3,943         940      4,883
        At 31 December 2024                                883      4,826
                                                           826      4,769
        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2023                    3,672       2,836      6,508

        At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024         -     1,896      1,896
                                                   -         57         57
        At 31 December 2024                        -
                                                   -     1,953      1,953
        Company                                    -         57         57

        Cost                                 3,672       2,010      2,010
        At 1 January 2023/31 December 2023/  3,672
                                             3,672         940      4,612
          1 January 2024/31 December 2024                  883      4,555
                                                           826      4,498
        Accumulated depreciation
        At 1 January 2023
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024
        Depreciation for the year

        At 31 December 2024

        Carrying amounts
        At 1 January 2023

        At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024

        At 31 December 2024

                                             141 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

5. Investment properties (cont’d)

5.1 Other income/expenses recognised in the income statements in relation to investment
        properties

		                                                               Group and Company

				2024                                                                  2023

			RM’000                                                                 RM’000

Lease income			517                                                        479

Direct operating expenses:

- income generating investment properties			                     54                 54

5.2 Fair value information

Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:

                                            Group                Company

		 2024                                            2023          2024     2023

		 RM’000                                          RM’000        RM’000   RM’000

Level 3                            134,156         133,956       129,156  128,956
Freehold land and buildings

Level 3 fair value

The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.

 Description of valuation                  Significant           Inter-relationship between
technique and inputs used           unobservable inputs           significant unobservable

Comparison method of            Recent transactions of               inputs and fair value
valuation which entails         similar properties at or near            measurements
comparing the property with     reporting period with similar
similar properties that were    land usage, land size and        The estimated fair value
sold recently and those that    location.                        would increase/(decrease)
are currently offered for sale                                   if recent transactions of
in the vicinity.                                                 similar properties at or near
                                                                 reporting period with similar
                                                                 land usage and land size
                                                                 were higher/(lower).

                           Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value

                           The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison
                           method. The comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of
                           comparable properties in the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location,
                           size and shape of land, age and condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other
                           relevant characteristics.

                  5.3 Material accounting policy information

                           Investment properties carried at cost are properties which are owned to earn rental income or
                           for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the
                           production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Investment properties
                           initially and subsequently measured at cost are accounted for similarly to property, plant and
                           equipment. Freehold land is not depreciated.

142 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
6. Investments in subsidiaries

		Company

				2024                                                                                 2023

			RM’000                                                                                RM’000

At cost

Unquoted shares			141,800                                                                141,800
                                                                                              (452)
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			                                         (452)

			141,348                                                                               141,348

Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

Name of subsidiary  Principal place of                                                 Effective
                    business/Country                                                  ownership
Dindings Soya &     of incorporation Principal activities
 Multifeeds                                                                             interest
 Sdn. Berhad
                                                                                 2024    2023
                                                                                  %       %

                    Malaysia                  Manufacture and sale of animal     100     100
                                               feeds and sale of related raw
                                               materials

Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia              Trading in corn, soybean meal      51      51

                                              and other feed ingredients

Vimaflour Ltd.*     Vietnam                   Milling and selling wheat flour    70      70

                                              together with its allied products

MFM International Ltd.# British Virgin        Investment holding                 100     100
                                     Islands

MFM Property Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia               Investment holding                 100     100

MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia               Dormant                            100     100

Semakin Dinamik Sdn. Malaysia                 Dormant                            100     100
 Bhd.

MFM LTD.            Malaysia                  Dormant                            100     100
                                              Dormant
Muda Fibre          Malaysia                                                     60      60
 Manufacturing                                Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd.

Dindings Broiler Breeder Malaysia                                                     -  100
 Farm Sdn. Bhd.^

Syarikat Pengangkutan Malaysia                Dormant                                 -  100
 Lumut Sdn. Bhd.^

                                                       143 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

6. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (cont’d)

Name of subsidiary  Principal place of                                                    Effective
                    business/Country                                                     ownership
                    of incorporation Principal activities
                                                                                           interest

                                                                                         2024  2023
                                                                                          %     %

Dindings Grand Parent Malaysia                       Dormant                             -     100
 Farm Sdn. Bhd.^                                     Dormant

AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd.^   Malaysia                                                             -     100

Subsidiary of MFM                                    Milling and selling wheat flour     100   100
 International Ltd.

Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.* Vietnam

                                                      together with its allied products

* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International.

# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.

^ Members’ voluntary liquidation was completed during the year.

6.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries

The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment. The Group’s
subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:

			 Other

		 Subsidiaries subsidiaries

		 with                                                                                  with

		 material immaterial

		 NCI*                                                                                  NCI      Total
                                                                                               RM’000
		 RM’000                                                                             RM’000

2024                                                          105,634                    4,939 110,573
Carrying amount of NCI		

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI               13,209                     (7) 13,202

2023                                                          99,081                     4,946 104,027
Carrying amount of NCI		

Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI               13,219                     (6) 13,213

* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..

144 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
6. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

6.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)

		                                                                   Subsidiaries with

		                                                                   material NCI*

			2024                                                                             2023

			RM’000                                                                         RM’000

Summarised financial information before

         intra-group elimination

As at 31 December

Non-current assets			                                                86,170       103,442
                                                                                  654,569
Current assets			709,108
                                                                                     (4,120)
Non-current liabilities			                                           -            (436,532)

Current liabilities			                                               (460,396)

Net assets			334,882                                                              317,359

Year ended 31 December

Revenue			1,873,521                                                               1,840,896
                                                                                      37,757
Profit for the year			                                               59,397           41,913

Total comprehensive income			                                        39,711

Cash flows (used in)/from operating activities			                    (36,675)     108,185
Cash flows used in investing activities			                           (23,976)     (83,241)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities			                    61,502       (44,947)

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents		               851          (20,003)

Dividends paid to NCI			                                             6,656        10,863

        * Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..

6.2 Material accounting policy information

        Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
        impairment losses.

7. Investments in joint ventures

                                                  Group              Company

                                  Note  2024             2023        2024           2023

		 RM’000                                                RM’000      RM’000       RM’000

At cost

Unquoted shares		 656,057                                656,057     647,382      647,382

Less: Accumulated                                                 -  (101,207)    (35,765)
                                                          52,994               -           -
impairment loss                   7.1   (42,068)
                                                                     546,175      611,617
Share of post-acquisition reserves		 34,890

		 648,879                                               709,051

                                                        145 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

7. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

7.1 Impairment loss of investment in a joint venture

As at 31 December 2024, a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”), continued
to register losses amounting to RM30,005,000 (2023: RM66,490,000) and its net assets of
RM133,726,000 (2023: RM153,413,000) was lower than the Company’s initial cost of investment.
Hence, there was an indication of impairment which requires management to estimate the
recoverable amount of the investment in the joint venture.

For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the joint venture was determined
based on its value-in-use.

Management estimated the recoverable amount of the Group’s and the Company’s investment
in BFMI of RM91,658,000 (2023: RM157,100,000) and an impairment loss of RM42,068,000
(2023: Nil) and RM65,442,000 (2023: RM35,765,000) is recognised in the income statements of
the Group and the Company, respectively.

7.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to impairment assessment of
        investment in a joint venture

The Company applied significant judgements and assumptions in performing impairment testing
which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investment in a joint
venture and to provide impairment loss when required. The Company considered the joint
ventures’ cash flow projections in determining the recoverable amount of the investment in a
joint venture.

The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value and
the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation.

 Description of valuation                                  Level 3 fair value             Inter-relationship
technique and inputs used                                       significant             between significant
                                                                                     unobservable inputs and
The valuation method                                     unobservable inputs         fair value measurements
considers the discounting of
future cash flows expected                           • Pre-tax discount rate of     • The estimated fair value
to be generated.                                         14% (2023: 11%).               would increase/decrease
                                                                                        if the discount rate were
                                                     • Annual revenue growth            lower/higher.
                                                         of 6% for the years 2025
                                                         to 2029 (2023: 6% for the  • The estimated fair value
                                                         years 2024 to 2026 and         would increase/decrease
                                                         2% for the years 2027 to       if the annual revenue
                                                         2033).                         growth rate were higher/
                                                                                        lower.
                                                     • Terminal growth rate of
                                                         2% (2023: 2%).             • The estimated fair value
                                                                                        would increase/decrease
                                                                                        if the terminal growth rate
                                                                                        were higher/lower.

146 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

7.3 Sensitivity to changes in assumption

The above estimate is particularly sensitive to the annual revenue growth rate and discount rate.

Group and Company

A decrease of 1 percentage point in the annual revenue growth rate would have increased the
impairment loss by RM10,323,000.

An increase of 1 percentage point in the discount rate would have increased the impairment loss
by RM17,819,000.

The joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:

Name of joint venture     Principal place                                    Percentage of
                          of business/                                         ownership
                          Country of
                          incorporation Principal activities

                                                                             2024  2023
                                                                              %     %

Dindings Tyson Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia        Investment holding                 51    51
 (“DTSB”)#

Subsidiaries of DTSB      Malaysia        Breeding and sale of day-old       51    51
Dindings Poultry
                                          chicks, poultry grow-out farm,
 Development Centre
 Sdn. Bhd.#                               purchase and contract farming

                                          activities, manufacture and

                                          sale of animal feeds and sale of

                                          related raw materials

Dindings Poultry Processing Malaysia      Processing and sale of poultry     51    51
 Sdn. Bhd.#                                products

Dindings Foods Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia        Dormant                            51    51

PT Bungasari Flour Mills  Indonesia       Milling and selling of wheat flour 30    30
 Indonesia (“BFMI”)*
                                          together with its allied products

# Although the Group has majority voting rights in DTSB, there are substantive rights shared with the
      other shareholder pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement. Accordingly, DTSB and its subsidiaries
      are classified as joint ventures of the Group.

* Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.

                                                   147 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

7. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

The following table summarises the financial information of the joint ventures, as adjusted for any
differences in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to
the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures, which is accounted for using the equity
method.

                                                     DTSB        BFMI                    Total

                             2024                          2023  2024        2023        2024      2023

                             RM’000 RM’000                       RM’000 RM’000           RM’000 RM’000

Summarised financial         891,241                 906,578     781,417 884,011 1,672,658 1,790,589
 information as at           469,712                 432,594     656,829 852,914 1,126,541 1,285,508
 31 December                                                      (93,495) (97,921) (98,638) (107,870)
                                (5,143)                 (9,949)  (898,998) (1,127,628) (1,151,294) (1,356,442)
Non-current assets           (252,296)               (228,814)
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Net assets                   1,103,514 1,100,409 445,753 511,376 1,549,267 1,611,785

Year ended 31 December

Revenue                      1,079,823 1,141,459 2,263,865 2,224,740 3,343,688 3,366,199

Profit/(Loss) for the year   3,105 50,742 (30,005) (66,490) (26,900) (15,748)

Reconciliation of net        492,152                 490,569     133,726     153,413     625,878   643,982
 assets to carrying           65,069                  65,069              -           -   65,069    65,069
 amount as at                         -                       -                       -  (42,068)           -
 31 December                                                     (42,068)

Group’s share of net assets
Goodwill
Less: Impairment loss

Carrying amount in the       557,221 555,638                     91,658 153,413          648,879 709,051
 balance sheet

Group’s share of results     1,583 25,879                        (9,001) (19,947)        (7,418)   5,932
 for year ended
 31 December

Group’s share of profit/
 (loss) for the year

148 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

        7.4 Contingent liabilities

                 PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”)

                 Corporate guarantee

                 The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD6.6 million
                 (2023: USD15.0 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint
                 venturer, BFMI. As at 31 December 2024, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to
                 USD0.34 million (2023: USD3.6 million).

                 Dindings Poultry Development Centre Sdn. Bhd. (“DPDC”)

                 Litigation

                 On 5 August 2022, DPDC received a Notice of Proposed Decision issued by the Malaysia
                 Competition Commission (“MyCC”) pursuant to Section 36 of the Competition Act 2010 (“the
                 Act”) (“Proposed Decision”). The Proposed Decision is premised primarily on the allegation that
                 DPDC had engaged in agreements and/or concerted practices to fix the quantum of poultry feed
                 price which is in breach of Section 4(1) read together with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Act.

                 DPDC strongly denies the allegation of the aforesaid infringement which is without merit and
                 intends to defend such unfounded allegation vigorously. DPDC has appointed external legal
                 counsel to represent it and submit written representations and make an oral representation before
                 MyCC. However, in the event of any findings to the contrary, MyCC has proposed a financial
                 penalty equivalent to 10% based on the relevant turnover and based on MyCC’s calculations
                 for the alleged period which amounts to RM70 million. DPDC denies that it is liable for the said
                 penalty and refutes the basis of the calculation applied by MyCC. DPDC submitted its written
                 submission to MyCC on 31 January 2023 rebutting the allegation of the aforesaid infringement
                 and made its oral representation on 29 and 31 May 2023.

                 On 22 December 2023, DPDC received MyCC’s Notice of Finding of An Infringement
                 under Section 40 of the Competition Act 2010 together with the Decision of Infringement
                 under Section 4(1) read with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Competition Act 2010 dated
                 11 December 2023 (“the Decision”). MyCC maintains its finding of price-fixing infringement with
                 imposition of financial penalty of RM70 million on DPDC.

                 The legal counsel is of the view that there were sufficient grounds to challenge the Decision. On
                 9 January 2024, DPDC filed a Notice of Appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal (“Tribunal”)
                 to appeal against the Decision and applied for a stay of the Decision pending appeal. The
                 Tribunal heard DPDC’s submission on the stay application on 12 June 2024. The stay application
                 was dismissed by the Tribunal on 6 December 2024. DPDC filed a judicial review application
                 at the High Court to judicially review the Tribunal’s decision on 6 December 2024 in refusing
                 the stay. On 2 January 2025, the High Court granted leave for DPDC to judicially review the
                 Tribunal’s decision in refusing the stay. The High Court also granted an ad interim stay pending
                 the determination of the stay application filed by DPDC. The inter parte hearing of the stay
                 application has been fixed on 8 April 2025 before the High Court. The hearing date for DPDC’s
                 appeal against the Decision has been fixed on 29 April 2025 before the Tribunal.

                                                149 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

7. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)

        7.4 Contingent liabilities (cont’d)
                 DPDC (cont’d)
                 Litigation (cont’d)
                 Based on the advice of the legal counsel, the Directors concur with DPDC’s view that no provision
                 is required in the financial statements at this juncture.

        7.5 Material accounting policy information
                 Investments in joint ventures are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
                 impairment losses.

8. Investment in an associate

		Group

				2024                                                                                      2023

				RM’000                                                                                    RM’000

At cost                                                                                -              15
- Unquoted shares
- Advances to an associate                                                             -      197
Share of post-acquisition reserves
Impairment loss                                                                        -      (15)

                                                                                       -      (197)

                                                                                       -              -

In the previous financial year, advances to an associate amounting to RM892,000 was repaid in cash
and RM16,000 was offset against amount due to an associate.

Details of the associate are as follows:

Name of entity                                       Principal place of  Nature            Effective
                                                     business/Country    of the           ownership
                                                     of incorporation    relationship
                                                                                            interest

                                                                                       2024   2023
                                                                                        %      %

Freeman Properties Holding Ltd.                      Cambodia            Investment       49  49

(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)

8.1 Material accounting policy information

        Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
        impairment losses.

150 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
9. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

9.1 Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                          Assets                  Liabilities                      Net

                          2024        2023        2024       2023       2024            2023

                          RM’000 RM’000           RM’000 RM’000         RM’000 RM’000

Group

Property, plant and               -          -    (27,398)   (28,314)   (27,398)        (28,314)
 equipment                        -          -     (2,175)    (3,225)    (2,175)         (3,225)
                           2,332      2,566               -          -    2,332           2,566
Right-of-use assets               -      648              -          -          -           648
Lease liabilities          4,252      4,031               -          -    4,252           4,031
RCULS
Provisions                11,753     10,862               -          -  11,753          10,862
Unabsorbed capital
                              928     2,439               -          -      928           2,439
 allowances                    17         83       (1,382)    (1,062)    (1,365)            (979)
Tax losses

 carry-forward
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)  19,282 20,629           (30,955)   (32,601)   (11,673)        (11,972)
Set-off of tax            (14,220) (14,465)       14,220     14,465             -               -

Net tax assets/           5,062      6,164 (16,735) (18,136) (11,673) (11,972)
 (liabilities)

Company

Property, plant and             -          -      (19,093)   (20,805)   (19,093)        (20,805)
 equipment                      -          -       (2,175)    (3,225)    (2,175)         (3,225)
                          2,332      2,566                -          -    2,332           2,566
Right-of-use assets             -      648                -          -          -           648
Lease liabilities         3,583      3,614                -          -    3,583           3,614
RCULS                           -        83           (331)          -      (331)             83
Provisions
Others

Tax assets/(liabilities)  5,915      6,911        (21,599)   (24,030)   (15,684)        (17,119)
Set-off of tax            (5,915)    (6,911)        5,915      6,911            -               -

Net tax liabilities       -           - (15,684) (17,119) (15,684) (17,119)

                                                  151 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

9. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

9.2 Movement in temporary differences during the year

		Recognised			Recognised

		                                                   in the Recognised		        in the

		 income directly in                                                 At        income

                   At statements                              equity 31.12.2023/ statements  At

                   1.1.2023 (Note 20) (Note 15) 1.1.2024 (Note 20) 31.12.2024

                   RM’000 RM’000                              RM’000  RM’000    RM’000 RM’000

Group

Property, plant    (26,444)                          (1,870)  -       (28,314)  916 (27,398)
 and equipment
                    (3,646)                             421   -       (3,225)   1,050        (2,175)
Right-of-use         2,953                             (387)                     (234)       2,332
 assets              1,716                           (1,059)  -       2,566      (648)
                     3,353                              678                       221               -
Lease liabilities                                             (9)     648                    4,252
RCULS                5,493                           (5,493)
Provisions                                                    -       4,031
Reinvestment         9,350                           1,512
                                                              -       -         -            -
 allowances          1,719                              720
Unabsorbed             739                           (1,718)  -       10,862    891 11,753

 capital                                                      -       2,439     (1,511)      928
 allowances
Tax losses                                                    -       (979)     (386) (1,365)
 carry-forward
Others

                   (4,767)                           (7,196)  (9) (11,972)      299 (11,673)

Company

Property, plant    (20,621)                            (184)  -       (20,805)  1,712 (19,093)
 and equipment
                    (3,646)                             421   -       (3,225)   1,050        (2,175)
Right-of-use         2,953                             (387)                     (234)       2,332
 assets              1,716                           (1,059)  -       2,566      (648)
                     3,008                              606                        (31)             -
Lease liabilities                                             (9)     648                    3,583
RCULS                5,493                           (5,493)
Provisions             563                             (480)  -       3,614
Reinvestment
                                                              -       -             -            -
 allowances                                                                     (414)        (331)
Others                                                        -       83

                   (10,534)                          (6,576)  (9) (17,119)      1,435 (15,684)

152 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
9. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)

9.3 Unrecognised deferred tax assets

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items (stated at gross):

		Group

				2024                                                                       2023

			RM’000                                                                      RM’000

Unabsorbed capital allowances                                         1,431     1,431
Tax losses carry-forward                                             17,967    19,858

                                                                     19,398    21,289

The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except
for the tax losses carry-forward. Pursuant to the Finance Act 2021, the tax losses carry-forward
can only be carried forward up to 10 consecutive Years of Assessment.

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not
probable that sufficient future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise
the benefits there from.

10. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives

                                                  Group              Company

		                                 Note  2024            2023        2024      2023

						                                   RM’000          RM’000      RM’000    RM’000

Trade receivables from

contracts with customers		               391,504         384,475     102,139   99,387
                                                                  -   50,205   82,258
Amounts due from subsidiaries 10.1       -                              5,306
                                                          17,208                4,157
Other receivables		                10.2  17,175                       29,434
                                                            5,531         959   5,461
Amounts due from joint                                      1,292                  990

ventures			                        10.3  29,538                                        -
                                                                                    98
Deposits				1,248

Derivatives at fair value through

profit or loss:

- foreign currency forward

contracts			 3,922                                       -           2,975

- future and option contracts		          -               291         -

				 443,387                                             408,797     191,018   192,351

                                                  153 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

10. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives (cont’d)

        10.1 Amounts due from subsidiaries

                 The amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and subject to interest
                 ranging from 5.20% - 5.50% (2023: 2.61% - 5.50%) per annum.

        10.2 Other receivables

                 Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM6,634,000
                 (2023: RM4,685,000) and interest receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks of
                 RM6,670,000 (2023: RM10,553,000).

                 Included in other receivables of the Company are advances paid to suppliers of RM2,538,000
                 (2023: RM2,336,000).

        10.3 Amounts due from joint ventures

                 The amounts due from joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free
                 except for RM21,580,000 (2023: Nil) which is subject to the Company’s cost of funds plus 1%
                 per annum.

11. Inventories

                                                                Group           Company

			 2024                                                               2023     2024      2023

                                                     RM’000            RM’000   RM’000    RM’000

Raw materials		                                      465,610           471,774  109,684   141,423
Finished goods		                                      35,462            33,366   11,528    10,826
Consumables		                                         18,680            18,781     6,113     6,187

			                                                  519,752           523,921  127,325   158,436

Recognised in the income statements:                 2,638,663  2,742,778       529,419   601,433
Inventories recognised as cost of

 goods sold

11.1 Material accounting policy information

        Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is
        calculated using the weighted average method.

154 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
12. Fixed deposits

		Group

				2024                                                                2023

				RM’000                                                              RM’000

Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks with                 334,364  332,717
 maturity of more than 3 months

Fixed deposits represent time deposits at banks with maturity of more than 3 months to less than
12 months.

Included in fixed deposits are deposits received from customers amounting to RM14,945,000 (2023:
RM15,413,000) which are subject to restriction in use in accordance with agreements with customers.

13. Cash and cash equivalents

                                                Group          Company

			 2024                                               2023    2024     2023

                                     RM’000            RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Deposits placed with licensed banks  28,837            25,763  10,555   13,644
Cash and bank balances               42,770            61,587  23,661   39,308

                                     71,607            87,350  34,216   52,952

14. Asset classified as held for sale

Certain plant and equipment previously classified as property, plant and equipment was presented as
an asset held for sale following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset during the year.
Efforts to sell the plant and equipment have commenced, and a sale is expected in financial year 2025.

		                                                             Group and Company

				2024                                                                2023

				RM’000                                                              RM’000

Asset classified as held for sale                              32,786   33,597
Plant and equipment

The carrying value of the asset held for sale is the same as its carrying value before it was reclassified
from property, plant and equipment.

                                                155 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

15. Capital and reserves

Share capital

                                                                Group and Company

		 Number		Number

                                                     Amount     of shares     Amount of shares

                                                     2024       2024          2023       2023

                                                     RM’000     ’000          RM’000     ’000

Issued and fully paid shares
 with no par value:

Ordinary shares                                      537,262    1,022,893     535,902    1,020,210
 At 1 January                                        108,095      216,189        1,311        2,622
 Conversion of RCULS                                                      72         49            61
 Exercise of warrants                                       58

At 31 December                                       645,415    1,239,154     537,262 1,022,893

15.1 Ordinary shares

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time,
and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

15.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)

		                                                                            Group and Company

				2024                                                                                 2023

			RM’000                                                                                RM’000

RCULS - Equity portion				                                                         -     77,410
                                                                                          2,702
RCULS - Liability portion

Current				 -

						                                                                             -     80,112

156 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
15. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

        15.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)
                 On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of
                 5-year 5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for
                 every ten (10) existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis
                 of one (1) Bonus Share A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A
                 on the basis of one (1) Free Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed
                 following the listings and quotation on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
                 The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:
                 (i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior
                         to conversion of the RCULS;
                 (ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”)
                         with the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of
                         RM1.00 surrendered;
                 (iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment
                         and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
                         they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
                         which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;
                 (iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up
                         to 24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);
                 (v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on
                         the Maturity Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such
                         RCULS up to the Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being
                         served no less than 30 days or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity
                         Date; and
                 (vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity
                         Date, shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion
                         Price on the Maturity Date.

                                                157 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

15. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

15.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)

                                                                 Group and Company

			 Equity                                                                    Liability

			 component component                                                                     Total
                                                                                         RM’000
			 RM’000                                                                    RM’000

As at 1 January 2023			                                          78,694       7,152      85,846
Conversion of RCULS to share capital		                           (1,275)          (36)   (1,311)
RCULS coupon payment			                                                                  (5,458)
Interest expense on RCULS			                                             -    (5,458)     1,044
Deferred tax effect (Note 9):                                            -    1,044
                                                                                               (9)
 - on conversion			                                                    (9)           -

As at 31 December 2023/1 January 2024		                          77,410       2,702      80,112
Conversion of RCULS to share capital		                           (77,410)            -   (77,410)
RCULS coupon payment			
                                                                         -    (2,702)     (2,702)

As at 31 December 2024			                                        -                  -    -

In the previous financial year, 2,621,656 new ordinary shares amounting to RM1,311,000 were
issued resulting from the conversion of 1,310,828 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
RM0.50 each.

During the financial year, 216,189,518 new ordinary shares amounting to RM108,095,000 were
issued resulting from the conversion of 108,094,759 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
RM0.50 each.

As at 31 December 2024, RCULS were fully converted.

15.3 Warrant reserve

                                                                 Group and Company

			 Number		Number

		                                                   Amount of warrants       Amount of warrants

		 2024                                                          2024         2023       2023

			                                                  RM’000      ’000         RM’000     ’000

At 1 January		                                       17,763      136,628      17,770     136,689
Exercised during the year                                   (9)         (72)        (7)        (61)
Expired during the year                                                               -           -
                                                     (17,754)    (136,556)

At 31 December                                       -           -            17,763     136,628

158 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
15. Capital and reserves (cont’d)

        15.3 Warrant reserve (cont’d)

                 On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights
                 Shares and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).

                 The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the
                 Rights Issue. The warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed
                 Poll”). The salient features of the warrants are as follows:

                 (i) Each warrant entitles the warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share
                         in the Company at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on
                         23 January 2024 (“Exercise Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with
                         provisions of the Deed Poll;

                 (ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any warrants which have not been exercised shall
                         automatically lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and

                 (iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will, upon allotment
                         and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
                         they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
                         which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.

                 In the previous financial year, 60,607 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to
                 RM42,000. This resulted in the issuance of 60,607 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant
                 reserve of RM7,000 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised
                 amounted to RM49,000.

                 During the financial year, 72,125 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to
                 RM49,000. This resulted in the issuance of 72,125 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant
                 reserve of RM9,000 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised
                 amounted to RM58,000.

                 At the expiry of the Exercise Period, 136,555,585 warrants remained unexercised and had
                 automatically expired.

        15.4 Other capital reserve

                 Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
                 reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.

        15.5 Translation reserve

                 The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of
                 the financial statements of foreign operations.

                                                159 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

16. Loans and borrowings

                                                              Group             Company

			 2024                                                             2023       2024       2023

			 RM’000                                                           RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Non-current                                          22,780          72,060     17,000     51,000
Unsecured term loans		

Current                                              923,242         842,618    330,037    358,483
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/                       46,426          71,004     34,000     34,000

 Unsecured revolving credits		                                                  364,037    392,483
Unsecured term loans		
                                                                                381,037    443,483
						 969,668                                                       913,622

Total loans and borrowings		                         992,448         985,682

17. Trade and other payables, including derivatives

                                                              Group             Company

                             Note                    2024            2023       2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                            RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Trade payables			 39,834                                             40,275     14,792     10,907
                                                                             -  11,117     11,076
Amounts due to subsidiaries  17.1                    -
                                                                      3,110             -          -
Amounts due to joint ventures 17.2                   1,917           65,382     30,061     27,327

Other payables and accruals  17.3                    69,928           1,360
                                                                             -
Derivatives at fair value

through profit or loss:

- foreign currency

forward contracts		                                  -                                  -   1,265
                                                                                        -          -
- future and option contracts		                      59
                                                                                55,970     50,575
						 111,738                                                       110,127

17.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries

        The amounts due to subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free, except
        for RM320,000 (2023: RM265,000) which is subject to interest at 5.20% (2023: 5.50%) per annum.

160 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
17. Trade and other payables, including derivatives (cont’d)

        17.2 Amounts due to joint ventures

                 The amounts due to joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.

        17.3 Other payables and accruals

                 Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits from
                 customers of RM21,044,000 (2023: RM22,531,000) and RM207,000 (2023: RM254,000),
                 respectively.

18. Revenue

                                                 Group          Company

		 2024                                                 2023    2024     2023

		 RM’000                                               RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Revenue from contracts with customers 3,121,334  3,148,901      735,594  779,166

Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.

19. Profit/(Loss) before tax

                                                 Group          Company

		 2024                                                 2023    2024     2023

		 RM’000                                               RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

Profit/(Loss) before tax is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting):

Auditors’ remunerations

Audit fees:

- KPMG PLT		                      246                   234     137      130

- Member firms of KPMG

International Limited		124                              179     -        -

- Other auditors		                105                   105     53       90

Non-audit fees:

- KPMG PLT		                      89                    39      89       39

- Local affiliates of KPMG PLT		  321                   87      218      65

                                                 161 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

19. Profit/(Loss) before tax (cont’d)

                                                                Group             Company

                                     Note               2024           2023       2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                              RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) before tax is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting): (cont’d)

Material expenses/(income)

Amortisation of intangible assets 4                     433                330        297        260
                                                                             57
Depreciation of investment                                                              57         57
                                                                       34,210
properties                                           5  57               2,610    16,329     16,722
                                                                               -    1,691      1,913
Depreciation of property,                                               (2,240)
                                                                                  (29,403)   (25,347)
plant and equipment                                  2  33,754         48,713         (141)      (985)
                                                                         6,919
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 3                   2,345                  -
                                                                         1,044
Dividend income from subsidiaries                                          478

(unquoted)		                                            -              (24,218)
                                                                           (327)
Insurance recoveries		 (188)                                                   -
                                                                           (944)
Interest expense of financial
                                                                            (59)
liabilities that are not at FVTPL:
                                                                         5,132
- unsecured bankers’                                                       (322)

acceptances/unsecured                                                   (3,269)
                                                                        (2,127)
revolving credits		 36,693                                                        12,919     21,421
                                                                                   3,424      5,139
- unsecured term loans		                                4,634                      1,262         131
                                                                                          -   1,044
- subsidiaries		                                        -                             351        403

- RCULS		                                               -

- lease liabilities		                                   421

Interest income of financial assets

calculated using the effective

interest method that are:

- at amortised cost:

- deposits placed with

licensed banks		(20,537)                                                            (994)      (704)
                                                                                      (73)       (95)
- debtors		 (197)
                                                                                  (2,403)    (2,445)
- subsidiaries		                                        -                           (396)      (944)

- joint ventures		                                      (396)                         (95)       (59)

- at fair value through                                                               (95)      720
                                                                                      98       (143)
profit or loss (“FVTPL”):
                                                                                     546       (770)
- liquid investment		                                   (95)                      (1,779)    (2,263)

Net (gain)/loss on future and

option contracts:

- realised		                                            (998)

- unrealised		                                          350

Net (gain)/loss on foreign

exchange:

- realised		 (612)

- unrealised		 (741)

162 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
19. Profit/(Loss) before tax (cont’d)

                                                   Group             Company

                                     Note  2024           2023       2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                 RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) before tax is
 arrived at after charging/
 (crediting): (cont’d)

Material expenses/(income)

(cont’d)

Loss on remeasurement of

contingent consideration

receivable*		                              -              71,065             -  71,065
                                                                  -  65,442     35,765
Impairment of investment in a
                                                              197            -          -
joint venture                        7.1   42,068
                                                           8,261
Impairment of investment in                               81,083

an associate                         8     -

Personnel expense (including

key management personnel):

- Contributions to Employees

Provident Fund		 8,263                                                5,498      5,586
                                                                     50,830     51,823
- Wages, salaries and others		             81,359

Other expenses/(income)

arising from leases

Expenses relating to short-term

leases		107                                                 118      11         11
                                                              71
Expenses relating to leases of
                                                          1,884
low-value assets		 67                                                63         67
                                                                -
Expenses relating to variable lease

payments not included in the

measurement of lease liabilities		         1,865                     920        829

Income from subleasing

right-of-use assets (excluding

subleasing of investment

properties)				                            -                         (1,875)    (1,155)

Net loss on impairment of                  1,392          1,357      490        873
 financial instruments

Financial assets at amortised cost:
 - Trade receivables		

		 * On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in DTSB for a
            total cash consideration of RM445,028,000. In the previous financial year, contingent consideration
            of RM119,971,000 was received, with a final contingent consideration due in 2024 based on the
            financial targets as at 31 December 2023.

			 As at 31 December 2023, management assessed the final contingent consideration and recognised
            a loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 in the income
            statements.

                                                163 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

20. Tax expense

20.1 Recognised in the income statements

                                                             Group           Company

		 2024                                                             2023     2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                           RM’000   RM’000     RM’000

Income tax expense                                   38,313         26,677   19,228     13,342
Share of tax of equity-accounted                      9,172         (3,061)
                                                                             -          -
 joint ventures

Total tax expense                                    47,485         23,616   19,228     13,342

Current tax expense                                  36,925         18,687   19,101     5,979
- current year                                        1,687             794   1,562       787
- under provision in prior year
                                                                             20,663     6,766
Total current tax expense                            38,612         19,481

Deferred tax expense                                 (346)          3,979    (1,404)     3,455
Reversal and origination of                            47           3,217         (31)   3,121
                                                                                         6,576
 temporary differences                                                       (1,435)
Under/(Over) provision in prior year                                                            -
                                                                                     -  13,342
Total deferred tax expense                            (299)         7,196    19,228
Share of tax of equity-accounted                     9,172          (3,061)

 joint ventures

Total tax expense                                    47,485         23,616

164 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
20. Tax expense (cont’d)

20.2 Reconciliation of tax expense

                                                     Group            Company

		 2024                                                     2023      2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) for the year            77,223                 5,285     8,885     (70,444)
Total tax expense                     47,485                23,616    19,228     13,342

Profit/(Loss) before tax              124,708               28,901    28,113     (57,102)

Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24%      29,930                 6,936    6,747      (13,704)
Effect of tax rates in foreign
                                      (5,169)               (4,136)   -          -
 jurisdictions
Difference in effective tax rate in       149                   474           -          -
                                      11,951                22,922    18,033     29,328
 equity-accounted joint ventures                            (5,954)   (7,057)    (6,084)
Non-deductible expenses                  (237)
Non-taxable income                                                 1  (5)        1
Difference in effective tax rate for        (5)
                                                            (1,199)   -          -
 foreign source income                 3,831                    561
Deferred tax assets not                5,301                          (21)       (107)

 recognised/(recognised)
Others

		                                    45,751                19,605    17,697      9,434
Under provision in prior year          1,734                 4,011     1,531      3,908

		                                    47,485                23,616    19,228     13,342

20.3 Income tax recognised directly in equity

                                                     Group            Company

                               Note            2024         2023      2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000    RM’000     RM’000

RCULS                          9               -            9         -          9
- Deferred tax

                                                     165 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

21. Earnings per ordinary share

21.1 Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share

The calculation of basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share was based on the profit/(loss)
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding, calculated as follows:

		Group

				2024                                                                       2023

				RM’000                                                                     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  58,115     (6,681)

				’000                                                                              ’000
                                                                               1,021,580
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December           1,225,567

				Sen                                                                         Sen
                                                                               (0.65)
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share                            4.74

21.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)

		Group

				2024                                                                       2023

				RM’000                                                                     RM’000

Profit/(Loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  58,115     (6,681)
Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable                -  71,065
Impairment loss on investment in a joint venture
                                                                    42,068             -

Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company         100,183    64,384
 (adjusted)		

				’000                                                                              ’000
                                                                               1,021,580
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December           1,225,567

				Sen                                                                        Sen

Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)                        8.17       6.30

166 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
21. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)

21.3 Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share

The calculation of diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share was based on profit/(loss) attributable
to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have
been in issue upon the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding
warrants, calculated as follows:

		Group

				2024                                                                           2023

				RM’000                                                                         RM’000

Profit/(Loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  58,115         (6,681)
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax                                       -      1,044

			                                                                 58,115         (5,637)

				’000                                                                                  ’000

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December           1,225,567      1,021,580
 (basic)		                                                                      -    216,190
                                                                                -            72*
Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS
Potential dilution arising from outstanding warrants                               1,237,842

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December           1,225,567
 (diluted)		

				Sen                                                                             Sen
                                                                                   (0.46)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share                          4.74

* Actual warrants exercised subsequent to the balance sheet date and up to the warrants
      expiry date of 23 January 2024.

                                                 167 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

21. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)

21.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)

		Group

				2024                                                                             2023

				RM’000                                                                           RM’000

      Profit/(Loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  58,115     (6,681)
      Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax                                       -  1,044

      			                                                                 58,115     (5,637)
      Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable                -  71,065
      Impairment loss on investment in a joint venture
                                                                          42,068             -

      			                                                                 100,183    65,428

				’000                                                                                    ’000
                                                                                     1,237,842
      Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December           1,225,567
       (diluted)

				Sen                                                                              Sen

      Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)                      8.17       5.29

22. Dividends

Dividends recognised by the Company are:

				                                                 Sen        Total		

				                                                 per share  amount    Date of payment

					                                                           RM’000

2024

Interim 2023 ordinary                                1.50       18,587    29 March 2024
                                                                18,587    27 September 2024
Interim 2024 ordinary                                1.50       18,587    30 December 2024

Interim 2024 ordinary                                1.50       55,761

					

2023

Interim 2022 ordinary                                1.50       15,315    24 March 2023
                                                                15,338    29 September 2023
Interim 2023 ordinary                                1.50
                                                                30,653
					

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.

168 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
23. Operating segments

Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management reports on a regular basis.

The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:

• Flour and grain trading            Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and other
		                                   allied products

• Poultry integration                Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
		                                   poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
		                                   day-old-chicks and contract farming activities

• Others                             Manufacture and sale of aqua feeds and remeasurement of
		                                   contingent consideration receivable

Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.

The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
assets is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.

               Flour and grain		

               trading               Poultry integration     Others              Consolidated

               2024        2023      2024  2023              2024      2023      2024  2023

               RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                   RM’000 RM’000       RM’000 RM’000

Business       3,053,449  3,065,456  -                    -  67,885    83,445 3,121,334 3,148,901
 segments         16,806     26,084                                 -
                                     -                    -            -         16,806 26,084
Revenue from
 external
 customers

Inter-segment
 revenue

Total segment

revenue        3,070,255 3,091,540   -                    -  67,885    83,445 3,138,140 3,174,985

Results from   183,775    125,346    -                    -  1,770     3,124 185,545 128,470
 operating
 activities

Interest expense (40,538) (55,374)   -                    -  (1,210)   (1,780) (41,748) (57,154)

Interest income 21,208    25,421     -                    -  17        127       21,225 25,548

Loss on

remeasurement

of contingent

consideration

receivable     -           -         -                    -  -         (71,065)  - (71,065)

                                                             169 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

23. Operating segments (cont’d)

                    Flour and grain		

                    trading                          Poultry integration     Others              Consolidated

                    2024       2023                  2024       2023         2024       2023     2024      2023

                    RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                              RM’000 RM’000       RM’000 RM’000

Impairment loss     (42,068)           -             -                    -  -          -        (42,068)      -
 of investment in    (9,001)   (19,947)
 a joint venture            -                        1,583      25,879       -          -        (7,418) 5,932
                                   231
Share of (loss)/               75,677                -                    -  -          -        -         231
 profit of equity-
 accounted joint
 ventures, net
 of tax

Share of profit
 of equity-
 accounted
 associate, net
 of tax

Profit/(Loss)       113,376                          1,583      25,879       577        (69,594) 115,536 31,962
 before tax

Depreciation and

amortisation (32,781) (33,189)                       -                    -  (3,808)    (4,018)  (36,589) (37,207)
                                                                                  (4)     (186)  (38,313) (26,677)
Tax expense         (38,309) (26,491)                -                    -

Insurance           188        2,096                 -                    -  -          144      188       2,240
 recoveries

Non-cash            301        2,356                 -                    -  (659)      (318)    (358) 2,038
 expense
 other than
 depreciation
 and
 amortisation

Capital

expenditure         (67,758) (34,878)                -                    -    (3,289)      (688) (71,047) (35,566)
                                                                             105,051    110,287 1,907,578 1,871,689
Segment assets 1,802,527       1,761,402                     -          -
Investments in                   153,413             557,221    555,638              -          - 648,879 709,051

 joint ventures 91,658

Total segments

assets              1,894,185 1,914,815              557,221 555,638         105,051 110,287 2,556,457 2,580,740

170 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
23. Operating segments (cont’d)

Geographical segments

In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on
geographical location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.

                              Malaysia              Vietnam          Consolidated

                           2024           2023      2024       2023  2024              2023

                       RM’000 RM’000            RM’000 RM’000        RM’000 RM’000

Revenue from external  1,751,818 1,821,006 1,369,516 1,327,895 3,121,334 3,148,901
 customers

Non-current assets     990,252 1,039,769 157,460 144,735 1,147,712 1,184,504

Major customers

There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2024 (2023: Nil).

24. Financial instruments

24.1 Categories of financial instruments

The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:

a. Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
        - Mandatorily required by MFRS 9

b. Amortised cost (“AC”)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                              Note amount          AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                           RM’000            RM’000

Group

2024                                            10  443,387          439,465           3,922
Financial assets                                                     334,364                 -
Trade and other receivables,                    12  334,364                                  -
                                                                      71,607
 including derivatives                          13  71,607
Fixed deposits
Cash and cash equivalents

		 849,358                                                           845,436           3,922

Financial liabilities                           17  (111,738)        (111,679)         (59)
Trade and other payables,
                                                16  (992,448)        (992,448)         -
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings

		 (1,104,186) (1,104,127)                                                             (59)

                                                    171 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                                   Note amount    AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                          RM’000     RM’000

Company

2024                                                 10  191,018    188,043    2,975
Financial assets                                                     34,216          -
Trade and other receivables,                         13  34,216

 including derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents

		 225,234                                                          222,259    2,975

Financial liabilities                                17  (55,970)   (55,970)   -
Trade and other payables,
                                                     16  (381,037)  (381,037)  -
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings

		 (437,007)                                                        (437,007)  -

Group

2023                                                 10  408,797    408,506    291
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,                         12  332,717    332,717    -

 including derivatives                               13  87,350     87,350     -
Fixed deposits
Cash and cash equivalents

		 828,864                                                          828,573    291

Financial liabilities                                17  (110,127)  (108,767)  (1,360)
Trade and other payables,                                                             -
                                                     16  (985,682)  (985,682)         -
 including derivatives
Loans and borrowings                                 15  (2,702)    (2,702)
RCULS - Liabilities

		 (1,098,511) (1,097,151)                                                     (1,360)

Company

2023                                                 10  192,351    192,253    98
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,                         13  52,952     52,952     -

 including derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents

		 245,303                                                          245,205    98

172 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)

			 Carrying		Mandatorily

		                                  Note amount                     AC at FVTPL

			 RM’000                                                          RM’000        RM’000

Company

2023                                               17     (50,575)   (49,310)     (1,265)
                                                                    (443,483)            -
Financial liabilities                              16  (443,483)                         -
Trade and other payables,                                              (2,702)
                                                   15     (2,702)                 (1,265)
 including derivatives                                              (495,495)
Loans and borrowings
RCULS - Liabilities

		 (496,760)

24.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments

                                                   Group            Company

		 2024                                                   2023      2024          2023

                                    RM’000                RM’000    RM’000        RM’000

Net (losses)/gains on:                5,282                 8,511     4,240         4,788
Financial assets/(liabilities)          648                (4,810)         (3)        (577)
                                            -             (71,065)          -
 at FVTPL:                                95                              95      (71,065)
 Mandatorily required by MFRS 9                                 59                      59
 - foreign currency forward         19,592                            3,331
                                                          24,132                    3,315
     contracts                      (45,110)                        (20,567)
 - future and option contracts                            (59,791)                (29,490)
 - other receivables                                                (12,904)
 - liquid investments                                                             (92,970)
Financial assets at
 amortised cost
Financial liabilities at
 amortised cost

                                    (19,493)           (102,964)

24.3 Financial risk management

		 The Group has exposure to the following risks from its financial instruments:

        • Credit risk
        • Interest rate risk
        • Foreign currency risk
        • Liquidity risk

                                                       173 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.4 Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
to prior periods.

Trade receivables

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
evaluations and institutes mitigating actions. New customers are subject to credit evaluation
process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.

At each balance sheet date, the Group or the Company assesses whether any of the trade
receivables are credit impaired.

The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
fully) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.

Exposure to credit risk and credit quality

At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.

The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.

Concentration of credit risk

The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region
was:

                                                     Group                Company

		 2024                                                     2023     2024          2023

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000   RM’000        RM’000

Malaysia			 254,816                                         260,301  102,139       99,387
Vietnam			 136,688                                          124,174           -            -

				 391,504                                                384,475  102,139       99,387

174 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage their debtors
and take appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within 90 days. The Group’s and the Company’s
debt recovery process are as follows:

a. Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
        structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and

b. Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
        legal proceeding against the customer.

The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Invoices which are past due 90 days will be considered as credit impaired.

Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.

Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.

                                     Group                      Company

		 Gross			Gross

		 carrying                          Loss       Net carrying    Loss     Net

                           Note amount allowance balance amount allowance balance

		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2024                        388,642  (687) 387,955 102,336      (630) 101,706
Not past due		

Credit impaired

More than 90

days past due		             3,777      (228)    3,549      592  (159)    433
                                     (2,819)          -  1,282
Individually

impaired		 2,819                                                (1,282)  -

		395,238                            (3,734) 391,504 104,210    (2,071) 102,139

                                                175 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

                                                            Group                           Company

		 Gross			Gross

		 carrying                                                 Loss        Net carrying        Loss        Net

                           Note amount allowance balance amount allowance balance

		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Not past due		                     379,834                  (353) 379,481        99,551     (297) 99,254
                                        701                                              -
More than 90 days

past due                   24.4.1                                  -    701                          -  -

		 380,535                                                  (353) 380,182 99,551            (297) 99,254

Credit impaired

More than 90 days

past due		                                           4,685    (392)     4,293      203      (70)        133
                                                            (1,934)           -  1,220
Individually

impaired		 1,934                                                                            (1,220)     -

		387,154                                                   (2,679) 384,475 100,974         (1,587) 99,387

24.4.1 More than 90 days past due

      Subsequent payment for trade receivables which were more than 90 days past due was
      received in January 2024.

The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.

                                                            Group                           Company

                                                     Trade receivables           Trade receivables

                           Lifetime Credit		                                     Lifetime Credit

                                                     ECL impaired       Total    ECL impaired           Total

                                   RM’000 RM’000 RM’000                          RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

At 1 January 2023                                    337    1,018 1,355          255        485         740
Amounts written off
Net remeasurement of                                 -      (29)        (29)     -          (26)        (26)

 loss allowance                                      16     1,341 1,357          42         831         873
Foreign exchange rate
                                                     -      (4)         (4)      -          -           -

At 31 December 2023/                                 353    2,326 2,679          297        1,290 1,587
 1 January 2024
                                                     -      (307)       (307)    -          (6)         (6)
Amounts written off
Net remeasurement of                                 334    1,058 1,392          333        157         490

 loss allowance                                      -      (30)        (30)     -          -           -
Foreign exchange rate

At 31 December 2024                                  687    3,047 3,734          630        1,441 2,071

As at 31 December 2024, RM307,000 (2023: RM29,000) and RM6,000 (2023: RM26,000) of trade
receivables for the Group and for the Company, respectively, were written off but they are still

subject to enforcement activities.

176 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        24.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

                 Other receivables

                 In the previous financial year, the Group and the Company recognised a loss on remeasurement
                 contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000.

                 Credit risk on other receivables are mainly arising from advances paid to suppliers and interest
                 receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks. At the balance sheet date, the maximum
                 exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.

                 Fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents

                 The fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. At
                 the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
                 amounts in the balance sheets.

                 These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
                 Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.

                 Financial guarantees to banks

                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                 The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
                 financing facilities granted to its joint venturer, BFMI. The Company monitors on an ongoing
                 basis the results of the joint venturer and repayments made by the joint venturer.

                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                 The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD6.6 million
                 (2023: USD15.0 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venturer.

                 As at 31 December 2024, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD0.34 million
                 (2023: USD3.6 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
                 venturer at the balance sheet date.

                 Financial guarantee to joint venturer

                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                 At the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venturer would default on
                 repayment. The Company is of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is
                 not provided for.

                 The Company provides bank guarantee to its joint venturer pursuant to the disposal of 49%
                 equity interest in DTSB amounting to Nil (2023: RM13,741,947) in respect of the post-completion
                 adjustment, breach of warranties and profit guarantee as stipulated in the share purchase
                 agreement entered with the joint venturer.

                                                177 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.4 Credit risk (cont’d)

Intercompany advances

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
results of the subsidiaries regularly.

Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheet.

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:

• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for
subsidiaries’ advances as at 31 December.

			                                                     Gross    Impairment
                                                                           loss
			carrying                                                                            Net
                                                                  allowance      balance
Company			 amount                                                     RM’000     RM’000

			 RM’000

2024                                                    50,205                -  50,205
Low credit risk                                             710           (710)          -
Credit impaired

			 50,915                                                                (710)  50,205

2023                                                    82,258                -  82,258
Low credit risk                                             710           (710)          -
Credit impaired

			 82,968                                                                (710)  82,258

178 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.5 Interest rate risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.

Exposure to interest rate risk

The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts at the balance sheet date are as follows:

                                                   Group                  Company

                           Note       2024                2023        2024         2023

		 RM’000                                                 RM’000      RM’000       RM’000

Fixed rate instruments

Amounts due from

subsidiaries                    10.1            -                  -  50,205       82,258
                                      334,364             332,717             -            -
Fixed deposits                  12
                                        28,837             25,763     10,555       13,644
Deposits placed with
                                      (923,242)
licensed banks                  13     (10,851)
                                                -
Unsecured bankers’
                                                -
acceptances/Unsecured

revolving credits               16                 (842,618)          (330,037)    (358,483)
                                                    (11,496)             (9,718)    (10,694)
Lease liabilities		                                   (2,702)                   -     (2,702)

RCULS - Liabilities             15                           -             (320)        (265)

Amounts due to

subsidiaries                    17.1

		 (570,892)                                       (498,336)          (279,315)    (276,242)

Floating rate instruments

Unsecured term loans            16    (69,206)     (143,064)          (51,000)     (85,000)
                                      21,580                 -        21,580               -
Amounts due from joint

ventures		                      10

		 (47,626)                                        (143,064)          (29,420)     (85,000)

                                                   179 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)

Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments

The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would not affect the
income statements.

Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments

A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased/
(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all
other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remained constant.
 

                                                              Profit or loss

		                                                   50 bp    50 bp   50 bp               50 bp
                                                                                     decrease
		 increase                                                 decrease  increase
                                                                                           2023
		 2024                                                       2024            2023     RM’000

		 RM’000                                                   RM’000    RM’000

Group

Floating rate instruments		                          (181)    181             (544)  544

Company

Floating rate instruments		                          (112)    112             (323)  323

24.6 Foreign currency risk

        The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
        borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
        of the Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar
        (“USD”) and Euro Dollar (“EUR”).

        Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

        The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
        where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
        to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.

180 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the balance sheet
date was:

                                                   Denominated in

Group                                Note          USD          EUR

		 RM’000                                                       RM’000

2024

Balances recognised in the balance sheet                     -  (1,266)
Unsecured term loans		                             (194,984)           -
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/

 Unsecured revolving credits		

		 (194,984)                                                    (1,266)

Forecast transactions

Forecast purchases		                               (159,775)       -

Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		  163,697         -

                                     10            3,922           -

Net exposure		 (191,062)                                        (1,266)

2023

Balances recognised in the balance sheet              (9,180)   (20,784)
Unsecured term loans		                             (182,797)            -
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
                                                                (20,784)
 Unsecured revolving credits		
                                                                        -
		 (191,977)                                                            -
                                                                        -
Forecast transactions                              (86,280)     (20,784)
Forecast purchases		                               84,920
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		

                                     17            (1,360)

Net exposure		 (193,337)
 

                                     181 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)

                                                     Denominated in USD

Company		 2024                                                  2023

		 RM’000                                                       RM’000

Balance recognised in the balance sheet              (109,432)  (73,144)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/

 Unsecured revolving credits		

Forecast transactions                                (131,184)  (76,231)
Forecast purchases		                                 134,159    74,966
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		

		 2,975                                                        (1,265)

Net exposure		 (106,457)                                        (74,409)

Currency risk sensitivity analysis

A 5% (2023: 5%) (weakening)/strengthening of RM against the following currencies at the
balance sheet date would have (decreased)/increased post-tax profit or loss by the amounts
shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained
constant.

		                                                   Profit or loss

                                                     2024       2023

                                                     RM’000     RM’000

Group                                                           4,068
USD		 1,189                                                       790
EUR		 48

Company

USD		 940                                                                69

24.7 Liquidity risk

        Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial
        obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises
        principally from their various payables, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities.

        The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
        bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
        have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.

        It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
        earlier, or at significantly different amounts.

182 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments.

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Group                  amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000       % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2024

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               111,679      - 111,679 111,679    -       -  -

Unsecured bankers’

acceptances/

Unsecured

revolving credits 923,242 3.37 - 6.12 936,004 936,004    -       -  -

Unsecured term

loans                  69,206 5.23 - 5.56  72,263 49,054 23,209  -  -

Lease liabilities      10,851 3.50 - 8.50  12,182 2,239 2,253 7,416 274

Financial

guarantees                    -     -      1,522 1,522   -       -  -

Derivative financial

liabilities

Future and option

contracts

(gross settled):

Outflow                       59    -      513    513    -       -  -

Inflow                        -     -      (454)  (454)  -       -  -

                       1,115,037		 1,133,709 1,100,557 25,462 7,416 274

                                           183 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Group                  amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000                        % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               108,767                                    -  108,767 108,767  -  -           -

Unsecured bankers’                                   2.00 - 7.12
                                                     5.28 - 7.97
acceptances/                                         3.50 - 8.50

Unsecured                                                         -
                                                                  -
revolving credits 842,618                                            851,544 851,544  -  -           -

Unsecured term

loans                  143,064                                       152,076   79,705 49,162 23,209        -
                                                                      12,993                         3,613
Lease liabilities      11,496                                           2,702  2,061 2,132 5,187
                                                                                                           -
RCULS liabilities             2,702                                            2,702  -  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                                      30,266 30,266    -  -           -

Derivative financial          1,360                  -               86,280 86,280    -  -           -
 liabilities                        -
                                                     - (84,920) (84,920)              -  -           -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

                       1,110,007		 1,159,708 1,076,405 51,294 28,396 3,613

184 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual				

                        Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under          1-2     2-5

Company                       amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year       years   years

                              RM’000      %               RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2024                           55,650                  -  55,650 55,650    -       -
Non-derivative                     320            5.20
                                                          338     338      -       -
 financial liabilities        330,037     3.37 - 6.12
Trade and other                51,000             5.28    333,039 333,039  -             -
                                 9,718
 payables                              -  3.50 - 5.00     53,356  36,019   17,337        -
Amounts due to                                         -  10,790   1,884    1,976  6,930

 subsidiaries                                             1,522 1,522      -             -
Unsecured bankers’

 acceptances/
 Unsecured
 revolving credits
Unsecured term
 loans
Lease liabilities
Financial
 guarantees

                              446,725		 454,695 428,452 19,313 6,930

                                                          185 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)

Maturity analysis (cont’d)

		Contractual					 More

                       Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than

Company                amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years

                       RM’000                        % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2023

Non-derivative

financial liabilities

Trade and other

payables               49,045                                     -  49,045 49,045    -  -         -
                                                             5.50
Amounts due to
                                                     3.70 - 7.12
subsidiaries                  265                            5.28    280     280      -  -         -

Unsecured bankers’                                   3.50 - 5.00
                                                                  -
acceptances/                                                      -

Unsecured

revolving credits 358,483                                            363,478 363,478  -  -         -

Unsecured term

loans                  85,000                                        91,181  37,825 36,019 17,337        -
                                                                     12,074                        3,613
Lease liabilities      10,694                                                1,656 1,792 5,013
                                                                      2,702                              -
RCULS liabilities             2,702                                          2,702    -  -

Financial

guarantees                    -                                      30,266 30,266    -  -         -

Derivative financial          1,265                  -               76,231 76,231    -  -         -
 liabilities                        -
                                                     - (74,966) (74,966)              -  -         -
Foreign currency
 forward contracts
 (gross settled):
 Outflow
 Inflow

                       507,454		 550,291 486,517 37,811 22,350 3,613

186 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.8 Fair value information

The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and
payables and short-term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively
short-term nature of these financial instruments.

The tables below analyses other financial instruments at fair value.

					Not

                                   Carried at			 carried at

                                   fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying

Group                        Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount

                       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2024                         - 3,922    - 3,922                       - 3,922 3,922
Financial assets
Foreign currency

 forward contracts

Financial liabilities

Future and option

contracts                    (59)   -   -  (59)                       -  (59)  (59)

Unsecured term

loans                        -      -   -  - (69,206) (69,206) (69,206)

                             (59)   -   -  (59) (69,206) (69,265) (69,265)

2023                         291    -   -  291                        -  291   291
Financial assets
Future and option

 contracts

Financial liabilities        - (1,360)  - (1,360)                     - (1,360) (1,360)
Foreign currency
                             -      -   -  - (143,064) (143,064) (143,064)
 forward contracts
Unsecured term

 loans

                             - (1,360)  - (1,360) (143,064) (144,424) (144,424)

                                           187 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

24.8 Fair value information (cont’d)

					Not

                                                     Carried at			 carried at

                                                     fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying

Company                Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount

                       RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000

2024                   - 2,975                          - 2,975    - 2,975 2,975
Financial assets
Foreign currency

 forward contracts

Financial liabilities  -                             -  -  - (51,000) (51,000) (51,000)
Unsecured term

 loans

2023                   98                            -  -  98      -           98  98
Financial assets
Future and option

 contracts

Financial liabilities  - (1,265)                        - (1,265)  - (1,265) (1,265)
Foreign currency
                       -                             -  -  - (85,000) (85,000) (85,000)
 forward contracts
Unsecured term

 loans

                       - (1,265)                        - (1,265) (85,000) (86,265) (86,265)

Level 2 fair value

Derivatives

The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).

Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
(2023: no transfer in either direction).

188 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Financial instruments (cont’d)

        24.8 Fair value information (cont’d)

                 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value

                 Level 3 fair value

                 Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long-term term loans where their fair values
                 approximate their carrying amounts. The fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows
                 using a rate based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at the
                 balance sheet date.

25. Capital management

The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2024 and at 31 December 2023 were as follows:

                                 Group

                           Note  2024                                                         2023

		 RM’000                                                                               RM’000

Total borrowings           16    992,448                                                985,682
                                   10,851                                                 11,496
Lease liabilities		
                                 (334,364)                                              (332,717)
Less:                             (71,607)                                               (87,350)

Fixed deposits             12

Cash and cash equivalents  13

Net debt		                       597,328                                                577,111

Total equity		                   1,415,838 1,445,981

Debt-to-equity ratio		           0.42                                                         0.40

There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

                           189 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)

26. Capital commitments

                                                               Group          Company

		 2024                                                               2023    2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                             RM’000  RM’000     RM’000

Property, plant and equipment                        36,195           46,072  19,366     32,736
Contracted but not provided for		

Joint ventures                                       2,824            12,630  -          -
Share of capital commitment

 of the joint ventures		

27. Related parties

Significant related party transactions

Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below.
The balances related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 10 and 17.

                                                               Group          Company

		 2024                                                               2023    2024       2023

		 RM’000                                                             RM’000  RM’000     RM’000

A. Subsidiaries

Sales of goods                                       -                -       7,818      11,545

Dividend income                                      -                -       29,403     25,347

Consultancy fees income                              -                -       1,372      1,386

Management fees income                               -                -       549        521

Management Information System

fees income                                          -                -       246        232

Rental of premises                                   -                -       49         42

Rental of furniture and fittings                     -                -       42         42

Rental of equipment                                  -                -       1,633      1,667

Interest income                                      -                -       2,403      2,445

Interest expense                                     -                -       (1,262)    (131)

B. Joint ventures                                    57,808      90,790       32,789     35,037
        Sales of goods                               (82,454)  (115,089)              -          -
        Purchases of goods                           12,078
        Management fees income                                   11,684       12,078     11,684
        Management Information System                  4,751
          fees income                                    491       4,538       4,751      4,538
        Rental of premises                               111         451          491        451
        Rental of furniture and fittings                             111          111        111
        Rental of equipment                            4,072
        Interest income                                  396       3,770       4,072      3,770
                                                                     944          396        944

190 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
27. Related parties (cont’d)

Significant related party transactions (cont’d)

                                                 Group          Company

		 2024                                                 2023    2024     2023

		 RM’000                                               RM’000  RM’000   RM’000

C. Key management personnel                               924     980      924
        Directors of the Company:                       8,614   6,942    8,242
        - Fees		 980
        - Remuneration		 7,302                              92      95       92
        - Other short-term employee                             8,017    9,258
            benefits (including estimated
            monetary value of benefits-                               -        -
            in-kind)		 95

		 8,377                                                9,630

Directors of the Group entities:

- Remuneration		741                                     621

- Other short-term employee

benefits (including estimated

monetary value of benefits-

in-kind)		247                                           143           -        -
                                                                      -        -
		988                                                   764
                                                                8,017    9,258
Total short-term employee                               10,394
 benefits		 9,365

                                                 191 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Statement by Directors

       pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

         In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 191 are drawn up in
         accordance with MFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board,
         IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the requirements
         of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
         and of the Company as of 31 December 2024 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the
         financial year then ended.
         Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:

         Datuk Oh Chong Peng
         Director

         Teh Wee Chye
         Director
         27 March 2025

192 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statutory Declaration

pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016

I, Yau Tee Peng, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 191 are, to the
best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed Yau Tee Peng, MIA CA15344, at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory on 27 March 2025.

Yau Tee Peng
Before me:
Harcharan Singh (W883)
Commissioner for Oaths
Kuala Lumpur

                                                193 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Independent Auditors’ Report

       to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad

       Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

        Opinion

         We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
         as at 31 December 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
         comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of
         the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
         policy information, as set out on pages 120 to 191.

         In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of
         the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash
         flows for the year then ended in accordance with MFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the Malaysian
         Accounting Standards Board (“MFRS Accounting Standards”), IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by
         the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the requirements of the
         Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

        Basis for Opinion

         We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
         Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
         Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
         audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

         Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

         We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
         Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
         Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
         International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
         in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

        Key Audit Matter

         Key audit matter is a matter that, in our professional judgement, was of most significance in our audit of the
         financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. This matter was addressed in the
         context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming
         our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.

        Valuation of investment in a joint venture

         Refer to Note 1(d) – Use of estimates and judgements and Note 7 – Investments in joint ventures.

         The key audit matter

         As at 31 December 2024, a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”), continued to register
         losses amounting to RM30,005,000 and its net assets of RM133,726,000 was lower than the Company’s initial
         cost of investment. Hence, there was an indication of impairment which requires management to estimate the
         recoverable amount of the investment in the joint venture.

194 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Key Audit Matter (cont’d)

Valuation of investment in a joint venture (cont’d)

The key audit matter (cont’d)

Management estimated the recoverable amount of the Group’s and the Company’s investment in BFMI of
RM91,658,000 and an impairment loss of RM42,068,000 and RM65,442,000 is recognised in the income
statements of the Group and the Company, respectively.

We identified the valuation of investment in a joint venture as a key audit matter because of its significance
to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the key impairment
assumptions involves significant judgement which requires significant involvement of our more experienced
audit engagement team members.

How the matter was addressed in our audit

We performed the following audit procedures, among others:

• We assessed the Group’s and the Company’s assessment on indicators of impairment in investment in a
    joint venture;

• We compared the joint venture’s cash flow projections to its approved business plan and previous cash
    flow projections to actual results to assess the reliability of the Group’s forecasting process;

• We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the cash flow projections
    by comparing them to externally derived data as well as our own assessments which takes into account
    historical trends and other corroborative evidence available;

• We assessed whether the Group and the Company had adequately provided impairment on the investment
    in a joint venture; and

• We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

                                                195 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Independent Auditors’ Report

       to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)

        Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

         The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of
         the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRS Accounting Standards, IFRS Accounting
         Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for
         such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements
         of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

         In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
         assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
         applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
         Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
         alternative but to do so.

        Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

         Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
         of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
         an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
         a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
         International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
         can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
         reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
         statements.

         As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
         on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
         We also:

         • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
              Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
              and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
              not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
              fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
              control.

         • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
              are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
              of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.

         • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
              and related disclosures made by the Directors.

         • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
              on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
              may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
              we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
              the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
              are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
              date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company
              to cease to continue as a going concern.

196 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
    the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
    Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.

• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial
    information of the entities or business units within the Group as a basis for forming an opinion on the
    financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of
    the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats
or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.

KPMG PLT                  Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758  Approval Number: 02782/09/2026 J
Chartered Accountants     Chartered Accountant

Petaling Jaya
27 March 2025

                          197 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 28 March 2025

Share Capital                          - RM645,414,830.42

Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,239,154,165 ordinary shares

14,179 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share

Size of Holdings                                              No. of               % of              No. of    % of
Less than 100                                        Shareholders       Shareholders      Issued Shares      Issued
100 to 1,000                                                                                                 Shares
1,001 to 10,000                                                1,607              11.33             19,181
10,001 to 100,000                                              1,513              10.67           876,018       0.00
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                       5,812              40.99       32,277,545        0.07
5% and above of issued shares                                  4,436              31.29     148,023,911         2.60
                                                                                            885,846,810       11.95
                                                                 809                5.71    172,110,700       71.49
                                                                     2              0.01                      13.89
                                                                                          1,239,154,165
                                                             14,179             100.00                       100.00

Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                                          No. of Shares      Percentage
1. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                                       91,058,005      Holding (%)

      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)                                                                    7.35
2. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
                                                                                          81,052,695         6.54
      (Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
3. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd                                                        60,561,922         4.89
4. Astar Commercial Limited
5. Teoh Guan Kok & Co Sdn Berhad                                                          53,583,750         4.32
6. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
                                                                                          53,060,400         4.28
      (Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
7. Duangmanee Liewphairatana                                                              39,381,435         3.18
8. Zalaraz Sdn Bhd
9. Yong Kok Yian                                                                          33,380,875         2.69
10. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
                                                                                          31,339,800         2.53
      (Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
11. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad                                     31,034,372         2.50

      (Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Eastspring Investments                       25,129,449         2.03
      Small-Cap Fund)
12. Teh Wee Chye                                                                          21,216,300         1.71
13. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
      (Pledged Securities Account for Gan Kong Hiok)                                      19,158,376         1.55

                                                                                          18,638,101         1.50

198 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders                                       No. of Shares  Percentage
14. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                 15,425,197  Holding (%)

      (Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)                                  1.25
15. Teoh Liang Huat @ Teoh Lean Huat
16. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                 12,354,200         1.00

      (UBS AG)                                                         11,915,219         0.96
17. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
                                                                       11,914,600         0.96
      [Employees Provident Fund Board (EASTSPRINGESG)]
18. MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                 10,000,000         0.81

      (Pledged Securities Account for Gan Kong Hiok)                   9,540,000          0.77
19. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
                                                                       9,290,400          0.75
      (Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
20. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                              9,164,539          0.74

      [Employees Provident Fund Board (Pheim)]                         8,877,394          0.72
21. Azhari Arshad
22. Azlin binti Arshad                                                 8,564,539          0.69
23. Azman Arshad
24. Azmi bin Arshad                                                    8,564,539          0.69
25. Azmir Razaleigh bin Arshad
26. Azrina binti Arshad                                                8,564,539          0.69
27. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
                                                                       8,564,539          0.69
      (Teh Wee Chye)
28. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin                                      7,741,500          0.63
29. Azlan bin Arshad
30. Azlin binti Arshad                                                 7,000,000          0.57

                                                                       6,368,539          0.51

                                                                       6,201,692          0.50

Substantial Shareholders          Direct Interest                      Indirect Interest

 Name                             No. of Shares                 %      No. of Shares      %
 Teh Wee Chye
 Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd  199,083,701                   16.07  87,273,490(1)      7.04
 Duangmanee Liewphairatana
                                  60,561,922                    4.89   1,519,119(2)       0.12

                                  33,380,875                    2.69   62,081,041(3)      5.01

                                                                199 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings

as at 28 March 2025 (cont’d)

Directors’ Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations

                                                     Direct Interest         Indirect Interest

Name                                                 No. of Shares    %      No. of Shares      %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye                                         27,087           0.00   -                  -
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon                              199,083,701      16.07  87,273,490(1)      7.04
Azhari Arshad
Lim Pang Boon                                        11,250           0.00   -                  -
Emeritus Professor Datin Paduka Setia
Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris                           9,652,500        0.78   -                  -

                                                     9,164,539        0.74   31,339,800(4)      2.53

                                                     620,825          0.05   -                  -

                                                     -                -      72,600(5)          0.00

Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.

Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber

      Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholding of his spouse.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai

      Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(4) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(5) Deemed interested through shareholding of her child.

200 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties

Description, Location & Size             Existing Use    Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                                Shoplot           Age of            of last     Value At
Freehold land with shop houses                                                                 31-12-24
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4                                  Building    Revaluation/                RM
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4                                      (Year)    Acquisition
Town of Butterworth                                                                           2,744,000
District of Seberang Perai Utara                         64 9 Sept 1996
Penang                                                                                        1,553,000
Total: 1.44 acres                        Commercial      85 4 Dec 1996
                                             land and                                             72,000
Freehold land with residential building       building   -                 1981
GRN 29231                                                                                    15,671,000
Lot 449 Section 67                       Vacant land
District of Kuala Lumpur                                                                         129,000
Federal Territory                        Office and      42-58 6 Oct 1998
Total: 1.00 acre                             factory                                         44,890,000

Freehold land                            Shoplot         45                1991
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of
Lots 5331 & 5332                         Office and      32 3 Feb 1995
District of Dindings                         factory
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres

Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim of Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres

Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim of Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre

Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres

                                                         201 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties (cont’d)

Description, Location & Size                         Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year      Net Book
                                                                            Age of            of last   Value At
Freehold land with building                                                                            31-12-24
HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284                                                   Building    Revaluation/              RM
Bandar Johor Bahru                                                           (Year)    Acquisition
District of Johor Bahru                                                                                  363,000
Johor Darul Takzim                                   Factory       25                1999
Total: 0.13 acre
                                                     Vacant land   -                 2011 2,538,000
Leasehold land
HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638                              Factory       12                2020 90,512,000
(expiring on 2-4-2072)
Mukim of Plentong                                    Residential   33                2017              132,000
District of Johor Bahru                                    house
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 4.57 acres                                    Vacant land   -                 1997              271,000

Leasehold land with buildings                        Vacant land   -                 1990              1
HSD 30844 PT 13524
(expiring on 20-10-2075)
Mukim of Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 23 acres

Freehold land with house
GRN 160946 Lot 45520
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre

Freehold land
Grant 1784, Lot 12653
Mukim of Sitiawan
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres

Freehold land
GM 10137, Lot 23464
Mukim of Bagan Serai
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.12 acres

202 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size       Existing Use  Approximate          Date/Year       Net Book
                                                          Age of            of last     Value At
Land Use Rights with buildings                                                         31-12-24
(expiring on 31-8-2024)                                Building    Revaluation/                RM
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province                               (Year)    Acquisition
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam                                                    47,469,000
Total: 17.30 acres                 Office and    27                1994
                                       factory
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)            Office and    22                2000 13,256,000
Phu My Industrial Zone I               factory
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres

                                                 203 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of
Annual General Meeting

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-Fifth Annual General Meeting (“65th AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be held at the Ballroom 1, Level 1, Corus Hotel Kuala Lumpur, Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala
Lumpur on Monday, 19 May 2025 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes:-

Ordinary Business

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
      31 December 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
      thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].

2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
      Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
      themselves for re-election:

(i) Mr Teh Wee Chye                                                                   (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain                                        (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Azhari Arshad                                                                (Ordinary Resolution 3)

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM280,000 per               (Ordinary Resolution 4)
      annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM140,000 per annum for
      each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended
      31 December 2024.

4. To approve an amount of up to RM350,000 as benefits payable to the                 (Ordinary Resolution 5)
      Non-Executive Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 65th AGM
      until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the                   (Ordinary Resolution 6)
      financial year ending 31 December 2025 and to authorise the Directors to
      fix their remuneration.

Special Business

To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-

6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
      75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant
authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being (“General Mandate”)
and that the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force
until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.

204 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together
with the Company’s Constitution, approval be given to waive the statutory
pre-emptive rights conferred upon the shareholders of the Company AND
THAT the Board is exempted from the obligation to offer such new shares
first to the existing shareholders of the Company in respect of the allotment
and issuance of new shares pursuant to the General Mandate.

AND FURTHER THAT the new shares to be issued pursuant to the General           (Ordinary Resolution 7)
Mandate, shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in all respects
with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms
of distribution that which may be declared, made or paid before the date of
allotment of such new shares.”

7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;

THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -

(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
    the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
    it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
    authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or

(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
    after that date is required by law to be held; or

(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
    general meeting,

whichever occurs first;

                                                     205 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of
Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally          (Ordinary Resolution 8)
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”

8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
      accordance with the Companies Act 2016.

By Order of the Board

Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary

Kuala Lumpur
18 April 2025

206 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes:-

1. A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the 65th AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to attend, speak and to
       vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

2. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to
       be represented by each proxy.

3. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
       1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
       with ordinary shares of the Company.

4. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
       the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

6. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the Proxy Form in a hardcopy form or by electronic means as specified below is
       received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment
       thereof:

• In hardcopy form

		➢      The original proxy form shall be posted or deposited at the office of the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share
         Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200
         Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.

• Electronically

		➢      The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
         https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for such
         lodgement.

➢ 		 Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com

7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 65th AGM, the Company shall be requesting
       Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
       Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2025. Only a depositor whose name
       appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and
       vote on his/her behalf.

8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Bursa Securities Listing
       Requirements”), all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 65th AGM will be put to vote on a poll.

Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business

Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements

This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.

Ordinary Resolutions 1, 2, and 3: Re-election of Directors

Mr Teh Wee Chye, Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain and Mr Azhari Arshad are standing for re-election as Directors of the
Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 65th AGM.

The Board had through the Nomination Committee carried out assessment on the Directors who are standing for re-election and satisfied
that they met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements on character, experience,
integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their role as Directors.

Ordinary Resolutions 4 and 5: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits

Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any benefits payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.

In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Non-Executive Directors at the
65th AGM:-

Resolution 4: Payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM280,000 per annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM140,000 per
annum for each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024; and

                    207 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
    Notice of
    Annual General Meeting (cont’d)

            Resolution 5: Payment of benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee
            and Board of Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 65th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the
            Company.
            The benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors comprise Board Committees’ fixed allowance, meeting allowances and benefits-in-
            kind. In determining the estimated total amount of the benefits payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number
            of scheduled and special meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Non-Executive Directors involved in
            these meetings.
            Resolutions 4 and 5, if passed, will facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits as and when required. The Board is of the view
            that the Non-Executive Directors should be paid such fees and benefits upon them discharging their responsibilities and rendering their
            services to the Company.
            Ordinary Resolution 6: Re-appointment of Auditors
            The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board had, on 27 March 2025, considered the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT
            as Auditors of the Company. The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board collectively agreed and are satisfied that Messrs
            KPMG PLT meets the relevant criteria prescribed by Paragraph 15.21 of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements.

            Explanatory Notes on Special Business
            Ordinary Resolution 7: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
            The proposed Resolution 7 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
            empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
            Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
            of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
            in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
            The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
            placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
            acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
            consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
            As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
            64th AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2024.
            Ordinary Resolution 8: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
            The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
            total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained profits of the Company. This authority,
            unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
            Personal Data Privacy
            By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, participate, speak and vote at the AGM and/or
            any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data
            by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and
            representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists,
            minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to
            comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the
            member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member
            has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its
            agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify
            the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
            Note: The term “processing” and “personal data” shall have the meaning as defined in the Personal Data Protection Act, 2010.

208 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement Accompanying Notice
of Annual General Meeting

Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements

Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the Company from time to
time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working
capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity deal which requires the
Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors consider it to be in
the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 64th AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2024.

                                                209 Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
This page is intentionally left blank.
   PROXY FORM                MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD                              No. of Shares Held

                                  Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
                                            (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                                                                   CDS Account No.

   I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No._________________

   			       (full name in block letters)

   of_______________________________________________________________________________________________

   					     (full address)

   being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-

             Full Name (In Block)                       NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding

                                                                                    No. of Shares  %

   Address

   * and/or  Full Name (In Block)                       NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
    Address
                                                                                    No. of Shares  %

   or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our
   behalf at the Sixty-Fifth Annual General Meeting (“65th AGM”) of the Company to be held at the Ballroom 1,
   Level 1, Corus Hotel Kuala Lumpur, Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Monday, 19 May 2025 at 10.00 a.m.
   and at any adjournment thereof.

   My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
   (Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
   will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).

   No.                                     Resolutions                               For           Against

        Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance

        with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-

   1. a. Mr Teh Wee Chye
   2. b. Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
   3. c. Mr Azhari Arshad

   4. Payment of Directors’ fees

   5. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors

   6. Re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company

   7. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and
         76 of the Companies Act 2016

   8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back

   * Strike out whichever not applicable

!  Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2025

                                                                                              ____________________________________
                                                                                               Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder

   Notes:-
   1. A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the 65th AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to attend, speak and to vote in his/her stead. A

         proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

   2. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each
         proxy.

   3. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least
         1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.

   4. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.

   5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
         corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.

   6. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the Proxy Form in a hardcopy form or by electronic means as specified below is received by the Company
         not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof:

         • In hardcopy form

   		 ➢ The original proxy form shall be posted or deposited at the office of the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd

                     (“Boardroom”) at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.

         • Electronically

           ➢ The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.

                     Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for such lodgement.

           ➢ Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com

   7. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 65th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository
         Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to
         issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2025. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and
         vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.

   8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Bursa Securities Listing Requirements”), all
         resolutions set out in the Notice of the 65th AGM will be put to vote on a poll.
Fold this flap for sealing

1st fold here

                                                   AFFIX
                                                   STAMP
                                                   HERE

               Share Registrar

               BOARDROOM SHARE Registrars SDN BHD

               11th Floor, Menara Symphony
               No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
               Seksyen 13
               46200 Petaling Jaya
               Selangor Darul Ehsan

2nd fold here
