SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
2023
OVERVIEW

73 Sustainability Highlights in FY2023
74 Reporting Practice
76 Message from CEO
                                 Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  73

OVERVIEW

 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS IN FY2023

Despite facing ongoing global challenges over the past 12 months, we have demonstrated resilience to achieve significant
strides within our sustainability framework. We remain committed to steadfastly upholding the principles of sustainable
development across our expanding operations as we generate lasting value for all stakeholders.

The following are some of our notable accomplishments in progressing EES outcomes during FY2023.

                            Economic

RM5.99 billion                        Zero

in value generated for our            reported violations of our

stakeholders                          Anti-corruption Policy

                    Environmental

Over 66,000 GJ                        Over 180,000

of renewable energy generated         multipurpose trees distributed for
from solar panels and waste-to-
energy boilers                        agroforestry activities

Over 1,570 tCO2e                      Over 73,000 Ha

avoided from solar panels             of farms assessed for

installed                             deforestation risk

          Social                      More than 11,600

More than 100                         hours of employee professional

beneficiaries of CBC initiatives      development provided

Over 10,403                           Zero

households covered                    reported incidents of non-compliance
                                      with regulations or voluntary codes
by CLMRS                              concerning the health and safety impacts
                                      of products
74  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                            GUAN CHONG BERHAD

OVERVIEW

 REPORTING PRACTICE                                          About This Report

Introduction                                                 The Group is honoured to present our annual SS for FY2023.
                                                             The SS provides an overview of the Group’s sustainability
From maintaining solid financial performance and ethical     performance during the period of 1 January 2023 to
business conduct to prioritising the well-being and growth   31 December 2023, unless stated otherwise.
of our employees, our sustainability efforts encompass the
entire ESG spectrum, leaving lasting and positive impacts    The Group has persisted in enhancing its data collection
on the local communities in which we operate. Our influence  systems, unlocking avenues to continuously elevate the
on these communities consistently remains a central focus    quality of our sustainability reporting.
in our pursuit of global expansion as we acknowledge the
interconnected nature of our operations.                     Scope & Basis of Scope

In line with this understanding, we have integrated          This SS covers the Group’s sustainability performance
sustainable approaches and ESG considerations into every     and progress of our business operations in Malaysia and
aspect of our strategic decision-making. This unwavering     selected geographical locations we operate in, namely
commitment ensures that the Group remains dedicated to       Indonesia, Germany, Singapore and the US, where our main
generating enduring value for our stakeholders through       offices and manufacturing facilities are located. We have
conscious, ethical and sustainable practices.                expanded the reporting scope of this SS to include our
                                                             operations in the US as the Group strives to continuously
Likewise, our dedication to nurturing a responsible cocoa    improve and enhance the scope of our disclosures.
sector remains resolute. We achieve this by offering
support to farmers, responsibly utilising natural resources  Reporting Framework & Standards
and empowering our employees to thrive.
                                                             This SS has been developed according to the Bursa
                                                             Securities MMLR, with reference to the Bursa Securities SR
                                                             Guide (3rd edition), GRI Standards, TCFD Recommendations
                                                             and UN SDGs. This report is intended to be read in tandem
                                                             with GCB’s IAR 2023 for a comprehensive depiction of how
                                                             our sustainability practices drive holistic value creation
                                                             across the Group.
                                                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  75

                                                                        OVERVIEW

Memberships & Associations

Our dedication to supporting the cocoa industry is underscored by our enduring active engagement with the following key
industry associations:

CAA                                                CFI                               CMAA
ECA                                                FCC
                                                                             German Initiative on
                                                                              Sustainable Cocoa
                                                                        (Forum Nachhaltiger Kakao)

ICI                                                MCB                  WCF

In an effort to instil sustainability principles beyond our organisation, the Group works diligently to identify the key
significance of potential ESG impacts from our business activities throughout our supply chain. To that end, GCB partners
with suppliers and industry associations to champion greater adoption of sustainability practices that foster benefits for
both people and the planet.

Assurance

The Group has employed good governance and internal reporting practices in the production of this SS. Additionally, the
Group’s dedicated reporting team has reviewed this report, with the Board subsequently providing approval. Moving
forward, we will strive to enhance our data collection, analysis and reporting processes in order to improve the quality
and scope of our disclosures. As the Group makes further progress in our sustainability journey, we will firmly consider
the adoption of external assurance for our future disclosures.

Feedback

Our stakeholders are encouraged to offer feedback regarding this SS.

Enquiries can be directed to our SD at the following:

Guan Chong Berhad                                       Telephone:      Email:
PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2,                                 +60 7-254 8888  info@gcbcocoa.com
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia.
76  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

OVERVIEW

    MESSAGE FROM CEO

Dear Stakeholders,

Amidst a global landscape marked by
environmental challenges and economic
uncertainties, sustainable development has
transcended mere moral imperatives, emerging as
a critical contributor to business resilience in the
face of growing regulatory scrutiny.

As a conscientious global supplier of cocoa and
chocolate ingredients, we are intensifying our
efforts to mitigate our environmental impact,
promote sustainable practices throughout our
supply chain and prioritise employee welfare.
By ingraining sustainability into our strategic
framework, we affirm our dedication to generating
lasting value for our stakeholders while driving
progress towards a more sustainable cocoa sector.

ADVANCING PROGRESS THROUGH A GOVERNING FRAMEWORK

We have enacted inclusive Group-wide policies that tackle ESG matters head-on, prioritising responsibility and
sustainability across all operational facets and engagements with stakeholders. In tandem with this, six workstreams were
established in FY2023 – "Caring Beyond Cocoa", "Circular Economy", "Climate Action", "Responsible Sourcing", "Corporate
Stewardship" and "Human Rights" – to monitor and enhance our ESG performance across our entire value chain.

We also place additional emphasis on climate action given our presence in the agrifood sector, aiming to assess climate-
related risks comprehensively and adapt strategies accordingly.

As we pursue our ESG objectives, our commitment to integrity, transparency and accountability remains paramount. We
will continue to ensure responsible and ethical business practices with customers, suppliers and employees while making
positive contributions to the communities in which we operate.

    READ  Sustainability Governance, page 80 & TCFD-Aligned Disclosures, page 123
    MORE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  77

OVERVIEW

EXPANDING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

Over the past year, we made significant strides in climate reporting, highlighted by our inclusion of Scope 3 emissions and
the publishing of our first TCFD-aligned disclosure in this report.

Progressing on our renewable energy initiatives, we have installed biomass boilers and solar panels at our new factory in
Côte d'Ivoire, transitioning away from fossil fuels and striving to increase our sustainable energy sourcing capacity.

Addressing deforestation is another critical focus area, underscored by new EUDR regulatory requirements. Through our
GC&B Programme, we evaluate deforestation risks across our supply chain and collaborate with suppliers and farmer
groups to promote sustainable land use and conservation practices. These initiatives highlight our efforts to enhance
traceability and drive responsibility across our supply chain.

           READ Climate Change Adaptation, page 102, Sustainable Sourcing Practices, page 98 & TCFD-Aligned Disclosures,
           MORE page 123

EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

Employee welfare remains a top priority, and we have
established Health and Safety Committees in all processing
facilities to ensure strict adherence to our Group-wide
Health and Safety Policy and compliance with local
regulations.

Concurrently, we reward employee contributions and
provide training and wellness initiatives supporting
professional and personal development, thereby fostering
a positive workplace culture and improving employee
retention.

Our commitment to contributing back to our local
communities extends beyond our workforce, with a calendar
of CSR activities focused on environmental protection,
education and people development. Our sustainability
initiatives under the CBC, which include efforts to improve
community infrastructure, further enables us to support
and drive positive outcomes for communities surrounding
our operational footprint.

           READ Caring Beyond Cocoa, page 110,
           MORE Empowering Our People, page 118 &

                            Diversity & Inclusion, page 112
78  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                     GUAN CHONG BERHAD

OVERVIEW                           GEARING TOWARDS A BRIGHTER FUTURE

                                   As a key figure in the global cocoa industry, we will
                                   continue to tackle and overcome sustainability challenges
                                   with unwavering determination, leveraging on our GC&B
                                   Programme and six sustainability workstreams to drive
                                   meaningful progress.

                                   We remain resolute in our mission to deliver premium
                                   cocoa ingredients and industrial chocolate globally while
                                   simultaneously reducing our environmental impact and
                                   maximising social benefits.

                                   In closing, I would like to express heartfelt appreciation for
                                   the unwavering support and loyalty of both our internal and
                                   external stakeholders.

                                   Our journey towards enhanced sustainability is a collective
                                   endeavour, and we look forward to strengthening our
                                   collaborative partnerships for the advancement of our
                                   industry and the communities we serve. Thank you.

                                   MR. BRANDON TAY HOE LIAN
                                   CEO
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023   79

SUSTAINABILITY
APPROACH

80 Sustainability Governance
85 Stakeholder Engagement
87 Materiality Assessment
89 Material Matters and Associated ESG Risks & Opportunities
80  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY
APPROACH

 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE

Sustainability is ingrained at the heart of our corporate
strategy and governance framework, interwoven through
guidance provided by Board leadership, senior management
and managers from various departments within the SSC.

The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for setting
the strategic steer on sustainability issues, with specific
oversight duties entrusted to Board Committees whose
mandates have been extended to include sustainability.
Supporting the Board is an executive-led SSC, providing
strategic counsel on significant sustainability matters.
Overseeing the daily execution of sustainability strategies
and plans, on the other hand, is a cross-functional CWG
comprising members from management across all our
operating countries and business units, and headed by the
SD. Ultimately, this integrated governance structure aims
to ensure sustainability is embedded across all levels of
our organisation.

The Board recognises the pivotal role of sustainability
in today's business landscape and is committed to
developing a knowledgeable and capable leadership to
ensure stringent oversight of sustainability matters. To
achieve this, the Board participates in various sustainability
capacity-building programmes, including workshops
and training sessions. Board members also strive to stay
abreast of sustainability issues, including climate-related
risks and opportunities. Moreover, the Board ensures
regular assessment and enhancement of its sustainability
competencies through ongoing leadership development.

Our commitment to long-term value creation, including
efforts undertaken to cultivate sustainable business
practices that contribute positively to society and the
environment, forms a core consideration in evaluating
Board and senior management performance. Further to
this, we have embedded the principle of “shared growth”
into our overall approach to value creation, whereby our
pursuit of business and operational targets are carefully
balanced with stakeholder expectations, environmental
stewardship and consideration for the communities in which
we operate. This comprehensive approach to sustainability
empowers the Group to achieve growth and profitability
while simultaneously contributing to the betterment of
society and the environment.
               Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                               81

               SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

ENVIRONMENTAL  Our dedication to environmental sustainability is ingrained throughout our operations and supply chain.
               We continuously monitor and improve our processes to optimise the environmental sustainability of
               our business. Our environmental initiatives are guided by various sustainability policies that serve to:

               • Establish and strengthen our commitment to environmental protection.
               • Optimise responsible resource consumption within our operations.
               • Empower and train our staff in environmental management.
               • Uphold legal and regulatory compliance.
               • Evaluate and tackle environmental impacts in our supply chain.
               • Monitor our carbon footprint to understand and mitigate our climate impacts.

SOCIAL         Social considerations are imperative to responsibly achieve economic growth and environmental
               sustainability in a manner that respects people’s rights and well-being. Guided by Group-wide policies
GOVERNANCE     and frameworks adopted across our subsidiaries, we:

               • Uphold human rights across our operations and supply chain by safeguarding the labour rights
                     of workers and promoting the health, safety and well-being of our employees.

               • Expect our suppliers to establish sound human rights policies that adhere to the GCB Supplier
                     Code of Conduct, as outlined in our Sustainable Procurement Policy and Procedure.

               • Leverage our GC&B Programme to enhance the livelihoods of cocoa farmers, while emphasising
                     local hiring practices to create job opportunities in the regions where we operate.

               • Aspire to create meaningful impacts and shared value with communities through social
                     programmes conducted through a range of CSR activities.

               Good governance and oversight are vital for achieving long-term sustainable growth and value for
               all our stakeholders. We regularly review and update our business practices to uphold ongoing
               compliance with pertinent laws and regulations, while simultaneously ensuring we remain equipped
               to meet our operational and expansion targets. Our governance framework is underscored by:

               • Group-wide governance policies that empower effective communication of our expectations to
                     stakeholders, reinforcing our shared commitment to ethical operations.

               • Quarterly evaluations of our risk assessments conducted by our ERM Committee to identify
                     relevant risks and implement the necessary controls, which are subsequently reviewed by the
                     Board to ensure their effectiveness.

               • Regular monitoring of global trends and regulations in tandem with our expanding global
                     footprint, safeguarding compliance across our geographic footprint and upholding our ability to
                     responsibly drive profits.
82  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Our Sustainability Governance Structure

                BOD

          1

             SSC

    2

              SD                   Our commitment to integrate business and sustainability is spearheaded by
                                   the highest levels of our governance, with the Board ultimately responsible for
    3                              driving awareness and adoption of sustainability strategies across the Group.

            CWG                     1. BOD

    4                              • Ultimately accountable for sustainability matters of the Group, including
                                         but not limited to strategy, targets, materiality assessments, and risks and
          Workstreams:                   opportunities.
          Caring Beyond Cocoa
          Circular Economy         • Ensures sustainability awareness is cascaded across the Group's
          Climate Action                 subsidiaries to drive cultural change.
          Responsible Sourcing
          Corporate Stewardship    • Progressively embeds sustainability throughout the organisation's culture
          Human Rights                   and operations.

                                    2. SSC

                                   • Formulates the Group’s sustainability strategy and policies, and proposes
                                         revisions to Board Committees.

                                   • Aligns sustainability strategy implementation across the Group’s business
                                         units and geographies.

                                   • Assesses sustainability risks and opportunities, with a focus on climate-
                                         related issues.

                                   • Evaluates the Group’s materiality assessment process and its outcomes.
                                   • Reviews the Group’s SS before seeking Board approval.

                                    3. SD

                                   • Prepares annual SS in alignment with leading frameworks to ensure
                                         compliance and transparency.

                                   • Conducts materiality assessments to identify relevant sustainability topics
                                         and risks.

                                   • Supports and coordinates with the CWG in managing sustainability and
                                         consolidating sustainability-related performance data.

                                   • Integrates sustainability into policies and oversees sustainability projects
                                         and initiatives.
                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023       83

                                                        SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

 4. CWG
• Collaborates with the SD in implementing sustainability strategies across the Group’s day-to-day operations.
• Acts as a conduit between departments to convey the Group’s sustainability agenda and related matters.
• Aligns practices on the ground with the Group-wide sustainability agenda and workstreams.
• Delivers detailed progress reports and maintains records to track performance and enable continuous improvement.

      Workstreams:

              CARING BEYOND COCOA                                         RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
 Implement our CSR strategy focused on local              Transition of our purchased cocoa, ingredients and
community engagement, employee welfare and              services towards sustainable production by enhancing
                                                          traceability, building our supplier competencies and
                environmental initiatives.              conducting social and environmental audits, especially

      READ Caring Beyond Cocoa,                                            for high-risk supply chains.
      MORE page 110
                                                                   READ Sustainable Sourcing Practices,
                                                                   MORE page 98

               CIRCULAR ECONOMY                                        CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP
  Spearhead water conservation and waste                 Embedding sustainability practices throughout our
management initiatives to promote a circular            operations by implementing continuous improvement
economy that considers product end-of-life.             programmes and internal audits to ensure adherence

     READ Responsible Consumption,                                to Group-wide policies and procedures.
     MORE page 107
                                                                  READ Governing Business Practices,
                                                                  MORE page 97

                      CLIMATE ACTION                                           HUMAN RIGHTS
    Develop a practical climate transition plan that    Addressing social inequality issues and promoting
ambitiously drives carbon reduction initiatives across  diversity and inclusivity within our workforce and
  our operations and supply chain while assessing
  and addressing material climate-related risks and                              supply chains.

                          opportunities.                        READ Diversity & Inclusion,
                                                                MORE page 112
        READ TCFD-Aligned Disclosures,
        MORE page 123
84      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

ENVIRONMENTALOur Policies and Procedures    Anti-corruption Policy  Innovation Policy
                                GOVERNANCE
                  Cocoa Sustainability      Anti-fraud Policy and   Non-compliance and
                Programme Policy and               Procedure        Grievance Procedures

                         Procedure                                          (External)

                   Deforestation Risk       Anti-money Laundering   Succession Planning
                     Assessment and                     Policy      Policy and Procedure

                 Monitoring Policy and      Business Ethics Policy  Supplier Code of Conduct
                         Procedure          and Code of Conduct

                      EnvironmentalSOCIAL     CSR Policy            Sustainable Development
                            Policy          and Procedure                         Policy

                Forest and Traceability           Enterprise Risk   Sustainable Procurement
                            Policy          Management Policy and      Policy and Procedure

               Gender Diversity Policy               Procedure

                   Health and Safety                 Internal       Whistleblower Procedure
                            Policy          Grievance Procedure

             Human Rights and Labour
                 Policy and Procedure
                                                     Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  85

                                                     SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

GCB places significant importance on maintaining consistent and meaningful engagement with our wide range of
stakeholders. Our primary stakeholders, identified by their impact and dependence on our business, encompass customers,
employees, governments, regulators & NGOs, local communities, media, shareholders & investors, and suppliers &
contractors.

To achieve our objective of fostering open lines of communication with these stakeholders, we employ both formal and
informal methods of engagement, striving to pinpoint pivotal concerns as well as emerging opportunities and risks. This
two-way dialogue further empowers us to integrate stakeholder insights into our sustainability strategy and disclosures,
thereby enhancing the effectiveness of our operations. Additionally, by actively engaging our diverse stakeholders, we
become better equipped to make well-informed decisions and remain responsive to their needs and concerns.

Below is a summary of our stakeholder engagements during FY2023:

Key           Areas of Interest                      Engagement Platform                 Our
                                                     & Frequency                         Response
Stakeholders or Concern
                                                     As needed                           Sustainable Sourcing
Customers     • Expectations on the quality, safety                                      Practices, page 98
                and delivery of products             • Calls and meetings
                                                     • Electronic communications         Product Quality &
                                                     • Customer support and feedback     Safety, page 120

                                                       channels
                                                     • Site visits
                                                     • Corporate events and trade shows

                                                     Annually
                                                     • Customer survey

Employees     • Health and safety of the workplace   As needed                           Diversity & Inclusion,
              • Inclusive working environment and    • Employee engagement               page 112

                culture                                programmes                        Empowering Our
              • Opportunities for learning, growth   • Internal communications           People, page 118
                                                     • Employee surveys
                and professional development of
                our employees                        Monthly
              • Remuneration and employee            • Management meetings
                benefits                             • Workers Committee meetings
              • Business growth and direction

                                                     Quarterly
                                                     • Workshops and training sessions

                                                     Annually
                                                     • Employee appraisal

Governments,  • Regulatory compliance at all         As needed                           Governing Business
Regulators      operational premises                                                     Practices, page 97
& NGOs                                               • Meetings
              • Adoption of practices outlined in    • Announcements on Bursa Malaysia   Mindful Water
                the MCCG                             • Audits and assessments            Management, page 105
                                                     • Training sessions and dialogues
              • Regular review and monitoring of     • Print and digital media           Climate Change
                risk registers                                                           Adaptation, page 102

              • Support for government initiatives

                                                                                         Responsible
                                                                                         Consumption, page 107
86  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                     GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Key           Areas of Interest                     Engagement Platform               Our
Stakeholders  or Concern                            & Frequency                       Response
                                                                                      Diversity & Inclusion,
Local         • Employment opportunities            As needed                         page 112
Communities   • Responsible operational processes                                     Caring Beyond Cocoa,
              • Periodic engagements with local     • CSR programmes                  page 110
                                                    • Print and digital media         Climate Change
                communities                                                           Adaptation, page 102
                                                      communication                   Mindful Water
                                                                                      Management, page 105
Media         • Business strategies and growth      As needed                         Responsible
                objectives                                                            Consumption, page 107
                                                    • Press releases                  Value Creation
              • Updates on CSR contributions and    • Media interviews                Business Model,
                community activities                                                  page 46
                                                                                      Caring Beyond Cocoa,
Shareholders  • Dividend payouts and capital gains  As needed                         page 110
& Investors   • Business strategies, future plans   • Press releases                  Sustainable Growth,
                                                    • Meetings                        page 94
                and overall performance                                               Governing Business
              • Reputation on ethical business      Quarterly                         Practice, page 97
                                                    • Financial reports and
                conduct                                                               Sustainable Sourcing
                                                      announcements                   Practices, page 98
                                                    • Investor briefings and other    Product Quality &
                                                                                      Safety, page 120
                                                      investor relations engagements  Empowering Our
                                                                                      People, page 118
Suppliers &   • Responsible and efficient           Annually
Contractors     procurement practices               • AGM
                                                    • IAR
              • Clear expectations on product
                quality and regulatory compliance   As needed
                                                    • Electronic communications
              • Health and safety of contract       • Meetings
                workers                             • Supplier evaluations
                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  87

                                                     SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT

NAVIGATING OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES

We recognise that material matters exert both direct and indirect influence on our ability to generate enduring value for
stakeholders. These pivotal concerns shape our business strategy and resource allocation, guiding our focus towards
critical sustainability matters.

To pinpoint the sustainability concerns that have the most significant impact on our operations, we employ a materiality
assessment process. A key component of this entails engaging with both internal and external stakeholders to acquire
insightful perspectives that inform an objective determination of our sustainability focal points. By incorporating our
stakeholders’ invaluable viewpoints, we make strategic decisions that align business objectives with our societal and
environmental responsibilities.

While we aim to conduct a comprehensive assessment every 3 years, we also perform an annual review of the significance
of previously identified impacts stemming from our operations. This practice ensures that we consistently refine our
approach to monitoring, managing and disclosing our sustainability performance, aligning it with stakeholder expectations.

FY2021                                       FY2022                           FY2023

• Conducted an initial sustainability  • Conducted a comprehensive            • Reviewed the FY2022
  materiality assessment involving       materiality assessment via focus       assessment by engaging with one
  internal stakeholders (employees)      group sessions, involving internal     of our key stakeholder groups (i.e.
  and some external stakeholders         stakeholders (employees) and           a government agency).
  (customers, shareholders &             relevant external stakeholders
  investors, and governments,            (customers, shareholders &           • Identified 4 additional material
  regulators & NGOs).                    investors, suppliers & contractors,    matters, while reaffirming that
                                         and governments, regulators &          the other prioritised material
• Utilised a materiality process that    NGOs).                                 matters remain relevant.
  referenced the Bursa Securities
  SR Guide and GRI Standards.          • In addition to the Bursa Securities  • Reprioritised selected material
                                         SR Guide and GRI Standards, the        matters, driven by external
• Identified 7 key stakeholders and      GRI Agriculture, Aquaculture and       factors such as stricter
  12 relevant material matters for       Fishing Sectors standard was           regulations on social and
  prioritisation.                        also considered for sector-specific    environmental matters.
                                         material matters.
• Outcome reviewed by the SSC
  and endorsed by the BOD.             • Identified 4 additional material
                                         matters, while reaffirming that
                                         the other prioritised material
                                         matters remain relevant.

READ  Material Matters (Appendix), page 134
MORE
88                                                          SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                              GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Our Materiality Matrix for FY2023

As we venture into cocoa-producing regions, we acknowledge the necessity to broaden the scope of our sustainability
reporting, providing enhanced transparency to stakeholders. In line with this, we conducted a re-evaluation of our material
matters in FY2023, which was guided by the Bursa Securities SR Guide and the GRI Standards, and included benchmarking
against industry peers.

This exercise affirmed the alignment of our preexisting 16 material matters with the Group's strategic priorities and
stakeholder expectations, while simultaneously identifying 4 new material matters for inclusion in our reporting scope:
"Biodiversity", "Training & Education", "Local Communities" and "Customer Privacy".

Our FY2023 assessment also indicated the need to reposition the significance of 2 material matters, namely "Procurement
Practices" and "Emissions", within our Materiality Matrix. This adjustment reflects the heightened focus on social and
environmental aspects throughout our value chain, alongside the increasing interest from stakeholders in our carbon
management strategy.

Both the materiality assessment process and the resulting materiality matrix have been reviewed by our SSC and endorsed
by the BOD.

                                                                                                               7                       1                Economic

Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions  High                                                                10                49           1. Economic Performance
                                                                                                                                       20              2. Market Presence
                                                                                                         8  3                                          3. Procurement Practices
                                                                                                        16      19                                  6  4. Anti-corruption
                                                                                           12                           11                             5. Anti-competitive Behaviour

                                                                                                   13                                                   Environmental

                                                    Medium                                     17 14                                                   6. Energy
                                                                                                                                                       7. Water & Effluents
                                                                                                                                    9                  8. Biodiversity
                                                                                                                18                                     9. Emissions
                                                                                                                                                       10. Waste
                                                                                           15      3        5               2
                                                                                                                                                        Social
                                                    Low
                                                                                                                                                       11. Employment
                                                            Low                            Medium                              High                    12. Occupational Health & Safety
                                                                                                                                                       13. Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                       14. Non-discrimination
                                                                                                                                                       15. Freedom of Association &

                                                                                                                                                             Collective Bargaining
                                                                                                                                                       16. Child Labour
                                                                                                                                                       17. Forced or Compulsory Labour
                                                                                                                                                       18. Local Communities
                                                                                                                                                       19. Customer Health & Safety
                                                                                                                                                       20. Customer Privacy

                                                            Significance of Company’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts

                                                            Note: The dotted circles refer to the positioning of the material matters in FY2022.
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  89

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

      MATERIAL MATTERS AND ASSOCIATED ESG RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES

In striving to make a positive impact beyond the bounds of our business, we have streamlined our material sustainability
matters with the UN SDGs.

As of FY2023, we have made progress toward the pertinent targets outlined in 15 of the UN SDGs and will strive to
continuously improve our sustainability performance.
90  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Material                                                                                       Stakeholders What We
Matters
             Why It Matters                Risks                    Opportunities              Affected  Are Doing

ECONOMIC

 1           Ensuring constant,            • Shifting customer      • Improving our                      Sustainable
             competent and responsible       behaviours and           resource efficiency                Growth, page 94
Economic     business conduct while          demand                                                      Climate Change
Performance  reinvesting resources into                             • Innovating                         Adaptation,
             our businesses and people     • Changing physical        competitive products               page 102
             is essential for achieving      climate risks
             sustainable long-term                                                                       Diversity &
             growth.                                                                                     Inclusion,
                                                                                                         page 112
 2           Building a positive market    • Lack of compliance     • Enhancing our
             presence in our operational     among recruitment        reputation as a                    Sustainable
Market       regions and positively          agencies may             company that values                Sourcing
Presence     impacting the livelihoods       pose challenges          people                             Practices,
             of our employees aligns         in building ethical                                         page 98
             with our broader goal of        supply chain
             responsible corporate                                                                       Governing
             citizenship.                                                                                Business
                                                                                                         Practices,
 3           Integrating sustainability    • Changing customer      • Enhancing our                      page 97
             practices into our supply       expectations for         sourcing criteria to
Procurement  chain is vital for upholding    responsible supply       develop sustainable
Practices    consumer trust.                 chain practices          practices

                                           • Lack of transparency   • Improving our
                                             throughout supply        supplier engagement
                                             chains

 4           Protecting our stakeholders’  • Lack of governance     • Maintaining business
Anti-        interests and maintaining       related to corruption    continuity, and
corruption   trust is essential to avoid     and unethical            continuing to build
             legal repercussions,            behaviour that may       stakeholder and
 5           safeguard our reputation        result in operational    investor trust
Anti-        and attract investments.        or reputational
competitive                                  repercussions
Behaviour

ENVIRONMENTAL

 6           Addressing climate            • Disrupted business     • Strengthening our                  Climate Change
Energy       change is crucial due to its    continuity due to        supply chain resilience            Adaptation,
             significant impacts on the      mismanagement of         in the face of climate             page 102
 7           global supply chain and         our transition to a      change
Emissions    energy security.                low-carbon economy                                          TCFD-Aligned
                                                                    • Leveraging                         Disclosures,
                                                                      innovative solutions               page 123
                                                                      with reduced
                                                                      environmental
                                                                      impact and lower
                                                                      operational costs
                                                       Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023         91

                                                                         SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Material                                                                                          Stakeholders What We
Matters
               Why It Matters                   Risks                    Opportunities            Affected  Are Doing
 8
Water &        As a manufacturing               • Challenges in timely   • Leveraging                       Mindful Water
Effluents      business reliant on water,         adaptation to more       innovative solutions             Management,
               managing our water use             sustainable water        with reduced                     page 105
               and discharge responsibly          usage practices          environmental
               is essential for sustaining                                 impact and lower
               our operations and                                          operational costs
               protecting the needs of local
               communities.

 9             Ecosystems are vital for         • Implementing stricter  • Improving our supply             Sustainable
Biodiversity   sustainable production of          requirements for         chain transparency to            Sourcing
               cocoa and preservation of          biodiversity-related     protect forests                  Practices,
               natural resources.                 activities and                                            page 98
                                                  conservation           • New collaborations
                                                                           with industry                    Climate Change
                                                                           partners and NGOs                Adaptation,
                                                                                                            page 102

10             Proper waste management          • Increased operational  • Improving resource               Responsible
Waste          is vital for reducing potential    costs as a result        efficiency, recycling            Consumption,
               environmental impacts and          of accommodating         and waste                        page 107
               addressing stakeholder             necessary waste          minimisation, while
               concerns.                          management               leveraging waste-to-
                                                  measures                 energy technology

11             Monitoring our supply            • Inadequate supplier    • Increasing the supply            Sustainable
               chain’s environmental              compliance, affecting    resiliency of key                Sourcing
Supplier       impact is key for                  our ability to drive     ingredients                      Practices,
Environmental  conservation and                   sustainability across                                     page 98
Assessment     improvement.                       the supply chain

SOCIAL

12             Offering employment              • Increased labour       • Improving our                    Diversity &
Employment     benefits and development           costs                    employee retention               Inclusion,
               opportunities through                                       rate                             page 112
               progressive policies
               empowers our people to                                    • Enhancing job morale             Empowering Our
               contribute to our goals.                                    and productivity                 People, page 118

13             Ensuring a safe and              • Increased expenses     • Minimising
               conducive workplace                for providing health     operational
Occupational   environment supports               and safety training      downtime
Health &       employee well-being and            for employees
Safety         operational success.                                      • Enhancing job morale
                                                                           and productivity
92  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                            GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Material                                                                                           Stakeholders What We
Matters
                Why It Matters                 Risks                     Opportunities             Affected  Are Doing
14
Training &      Supporting employee            • Increased expenses      • Improving our                     Empowering Our
Education       growth and development           for providing training    employee retention                People, page 118
                enhances their well-being        and education             rate
                and equips them with the         programmes for
                skills to add value to our       employees               • Enhancing job morale
                company.                                                   and productivity

15              Establishing a fair and        • Risk of legal actions   • Strengthening our                 Diversity &
Non-            inclusive workplace is           if human rights           reputation as a                   Inclusion,
discrimination  crucial for achieving decent     regulations are not       company that cares                page 112
                work and economic growth.        complied with             for its people and
16                                                                         communities                       Sustainable
Freedom of                                                                                                   Sourcing
Association                                                                                                  Practices,
& Collective                                                                                                 page 98
Bargaining
                                                                                                             Governing
17                                                                                                           Business
Child Labour                                                                                                 Practices,
                                                                                                             page 97

18
Forced or
Compulsory
Labour

19              Enhancing the quality of life  • Additional expenses     • Strengthening                     Caring Beyond
                in the communities where         in organising             our reputation as                 Cocoa, page 110
Local           we operate.                      programmes                a company that
Communities                                      supporting rural          contributes positively
                                                 development               to the community

20              Monitoring our supply          • Inadequate supplier     • Increasing the supply             Sustainable
                chain’s human rights             compliance, affecting     resiliency of key                 Sourcing
Supplier        practices and improvements       the ability to drive      ingredients                       Practices,
Social          is essential for ethical         sustainability                                              page 98
Assessment      operations.                      practices across the
                                                 supply chain

21              Safeguarding customers’        • Potential product       • Maintaining                       Product Quality
                well-being and maintaining       recalls and returns       our image as a                    & Safety,
Customer        a positive reputation in the     from customers, as        manufacturer of safe              page 120
Health &        food manufacturing industry      well as the loss of       and high-quality
Safety          is essential for building        their trust, following    products
                trust, ensuring legal            incidents related
                compliance and maintaining       to food safety and
                the loyalty of customers.        quality

22              Ensuring data privacy and      • Security breaches       • Building and                      Governing
                security enhances customer       impacting our day-        sustaining enduring               Business
Customer        confidence and trust in          to-day business           trust amongst                     Practices,
Privacy         doing business with us.          operations                stakeholders                      page 97

                                               • Negative reputation
                                                 due to data breaches
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  93

SUSTAINABILITY
TOPICS

94 Sustainable Growth
97 Governing Business Practices
98 Sustainable Sourcing Practices
102 Climate Change Adaptation
105 Mindful Water Management
107 Responsible Consumption
110 Caring Beyond Cocoa
112 Diversity & Inclusion
118 Empowering Our People
120 Product Quality & Safety
94  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

    Sustainable Growth

    BUILDING CLIMATE RESILIENCE: NAVIGATING RISKS & UNLOCKING VALUE

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?

Mitigating the tangible threats posed by climate change to our environment and communities is of paramount
importance. Furthermore, we must address the emerging array of transition risks that reflect the increasing stringency
of regulations and the escalating expectations from both our stakeholders and clientele. By addressing climate-related
risks and opportunities, we can safeguard our resources, maintain the trust of our stakeholders and customers, and
align ourselves with the growing societal emphasis on sustainable and responsible business practices.

OUR APPROACH

As a major player in the food and agricultural sector, we       Identifying & Mitigating Transition Risks
acknowledge the significant impact of climate-related
risks on our business and economic performance. We              As the private sector assumes a pivotal role in mitigating
are committed to prioritising the financial implications        climate change effects, transition risks have come to
of these transitional and physical risks in our decision-       the forefront. During this transformation, demand for
making, guided by an actionable framework that ensures          transparency intensifies, and adherence to evolving
sustainability principles are consistently integrated into our  environmental and social regulations becomes paramount.
practices.
                                                                GCB remains steadfast in proactively identifying these
Fostering Responsible Value Generation                          potential risks. We maintain a continuous vigil over global
                                                                trends and evolving regulations, while also assessing
Embedded within our meticulous approach to responsible          internal controls to ensure ongoing compliance. Moreover,
governance is our commitment to constantly conducting           we capitalise on climate-related opportunities within the
our business in a responsible manner, while diligently          present market landscape. This involves embracing green
reinvesting resources into our business and people to           financing options and leveraging government incentives to
achieve long-term growth. This framework ensures that all       facilitate the transition towards renewable energy sources.
our business operations adhere to pertinent regulations,
uphold ethical business practices and sustain transparency      Aiming to inspire change at the grassroots level, we
in communications across our diverse subsidiaries.              are actively engaged in fostering responsible practices
                                                                throughout our supply chain.

    READ
    MORE Snapshot of FY2023, page 17

Addressing Climate-Related Risks to our
Operations

Acknowledging the interconnection between climate
change risks and our economic performance, we have
established a framework to assist us in meeting regulatory
and stakeholder expectations while maintaining alignment
with our growth objectives. Through this integrated
approach, we aim to seize new business opportunities,
enhance stakeholder confidence, nurture a motivated
workforce and ensure the lasting progress and viability of
our business.
                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  95

                                          SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Proactively Mitigating against Physical Climate Risks

The tangible impacts of climate change present an existential threat to the enduring viability of the food and agriculture
sectors. The fluctuating global temperatures have the potential to manifest in diverse ways, impacting farmer yields
according to their geographical locations.

A significant focus of our endeavours in this regard revolves around assisting smallholder farmers within our supply chain
to enhance their capabilities in anticipation of future climate change-related challenges. Through our GC&B Programme,
we have spearheaded climate-smart agriculture projects within our value chains and established close collaborations
with local cocoa farmers, sharing our knowledge and expertise to enhance their production capabilities and fortify their
resilience.

Furthermore, we recognise the imperative of optimising our utilisation of natural resources and energy to contribute to
climate preservation. As a responsible cocoa processor, we maintain vigilant oversight over our resource consumption.

READ  TCFD-Aligned Disclosures, page 123
MORE
96  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                      GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

OUR PERFORMANCE

Category (RM'million1)                         2021    2022    2023
Direct economic value generated: Revenues (A)  3,989   4,518   5,991
Revenue2                                       3,923   4,420   5,321
Other income3
Economic value distributed (B)                     66      98    670
Operating costs4                               3,848   4,380   5,896
Employee wages and benefits5                   3,601   4,130   5,521
Payments to providers of capital6
Payments to government7                          157     142     185
Economic value retained (C)=(A)-(B)                33      56    145
                                                   57      52
                                                                   45
                                                 141     138       95

Notes:
1 Economic performance based on overall Group financial information.
2 Read more: Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Revenue, page 176
3 Read more: Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Other income, page 176
4 Read more: Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Cost of sales, Selling and distribution costs,

     Administrative expenses and Other expense, page 176 & Notes to the Financial Statements - Note 30 Employee Benefits, page 234
     (Operating costs = Cost of sales + Selling and distribution costs + Administrative expenses + Other expenses - Employee benefits)
5 Read more: Notes to the Financial Statements - Note 30 Employee Benefits, page 234
6 Read more: Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income - Finance costs, page 176
7 Read more: Statements of Cash Flows - Tax paid, page 181

    READ  Financial Statements, page 162
    MORE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  97

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

      Governing Business Practices

                          FOSTERING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE CHAIN

  WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
  Upholding robust corporate governance represents a fundamental component of our commitment to sustainable
  development. By implementing responsible and ethical practices from our leadership down to all subsidiaries, we can
  ensure the stability and efficiency of our operations as we build a strong reputation in the eyes of our stakeholders.

  We believe in going the extra mile, extending our efforts beyond the realm of regulatory frameworks to ensure our
  growing operations provide shared social, economic and environmental benefits across our value chain.

 OUR APPROACH

Our initiatives take into account a full spectrum of considerations, including human rights, the environment, health, safety,
labour, taxation and fair competition. These are enshrined in various Group-wide policies that underscore our commitment
to maintaining ethical business operations at all times and effectively managing anti-corruption and discrimination risks.

Committing to Compliance

The Code and other relevant policies provide clear guidelines for the responsible and professional conduct that we expect
from GCB employees and contractors around the world. Our policies reflect the high standards that we have set for the
Group, and we expect cooperation from all employees in maintaining these standards and remaining compliant with all
laws and regulations within their operating regions.

We ensure that all relevant stakeholders, including but not limited to employees, suppliers, vendors and contractors, are
properly informed of our governance policies throughout their engagements with the Group. For example, new employees
are briefed on existing policies during the onboarding process, and we also undertake annual refreshers to keep employees
informed about our policy updates and whistleblower procedures. Additionally, policies outlining our ethical commitments
are made publicly available on our corporate website.

 OUR PERFORMANCE

In prioritising the protection of our people's rights, it is essential to provide all our staff with secure channels for expressing
their concerns. To that end, we have established grievance procedures that enable both our employees and those within
our supply chain to raise potential issues, including suspected violations of our Business Ethics Policy, Supplier Code of
Conduct or other corporate policies, as well as any inappropriate, illegal or harmful behaviour. In 2023, no reports of non-
compliance were received through the established grievance mechanisms.
98  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

      Sustainable Sourcing Practices

                          FOSTERING AN ETHICAL VALUE CHAIN & DRIVING COCOA SUSTAINABILITY

  WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
  As one of the world's leading cocoa processors, we recognise our responsibility to enhance the livelihoods of cocoa
  farmers and their communities. With many cocoa farmers facing economic challenges and cocoa-producing regions
  afflicted by environmental degradation, our focus on sustainability throughout our supply chain is paramount,
  addressing social, economic and environmental impacts.

  Guided by our commitment to ethical growth, we aim to be a positive actor in the supply chain. Through our emphasis
  on sustainable sourcing and support for cocoa farmers, we empower cocoa farming communities to thrive in harmony
  with their environment, sowing the seeds of a sustainable future for the cocoa industry.

 OUR APPROACH

With our expanding global presence, we are dedicated to
harnessing our influence across our supply chain to tackle
these sustainable sourcing challenges and foster positive
impacts in the regions where we source our goods and
services.

Supplier Management

Through our Sustainable Procurement Policy, we prioritise
engagement with suppliers who demonstrate a commitment
to sustainability and ethical business practices. We strive
to partner with suppliers who share our values and are
dedicated to responsible sourcing, fair labour practices and
environmental stewardship.

To ensure transparency, we conduct annual evaluations of
our suppliers' sustainability performance through Supplier
Sustainability Performance Assessments. These provide us
with insights into their environmental and social practices,
subsequently facilitating meaningful engagement and
collaboration towards enhanced sustainability.

In addition to these efforts, we have implemented
initiatives to procure cocoa beans that meet internationally
recognised quality and traceability standards, reinforcing
our commitment to ethically sourcing raw materials.
                                                       Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  99

                                                               SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

                                                           The GC&B Programme

Deepening our engagement with the farmers from whom we source and enhancing transparency in our supply chain
have been our key areas of focus. Under the GC&B Programme, we have implemented a diverse set of initiatives aimed at
addressing four key pillars of cocoa sustainability:

                   Improving Farmer Income                    Benefitting Farmers & their Communities
                                                       ​
Initiatives to promote resilient livelihoods:          Initiatives to support farmers and their communities by
• Training on good agricultural, environmental and     addressing the social challenges they face:
                                                       • CLMRS
  social practices                                     • Women’s empowerment activities, such as VSLA
• Payment of sustainability premiums                   • Community-led projects to improve infrastructure and

                                                         access to services

ers                                                    Comm

Farm
                                     nment
                                       unities
Supply
To ensure a thriving,
  sustainable cocoa
sector & secure the
     future supply
         of cocoa

Chain                                                  Enviro

                Providing Responsible Cocoa                             Protecting the Environment
                                                       ​
Initiatives to increase supply chain transparency and  Initiatives to reduce the environmental impacts of cocoa
traceability:                                          production:
• 100% traceable & sustainable cocoa1 from our direct  • Deforestation risk assessments to ensure no sourcing

  sourcing network by 2030                               from deforested areas
• Digital management & traceability systems            • Forest protection, restoration and environmental

                                                         stewardship
                                                       • Development of cocoa agroforestry systems
100 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

 OUR PERFORMANCE

Supplier Performance

In FY2023, the Group started assessing the sustainability performance of both commodity and non-commodity suppliers.
We received responses from 41% of our suppliers to the Sustainable Procurement Questionnaire. This endeavour not only
enabled us to embark on benchmarking supplier performance but also encouraged greater accountability and commitment
to sustainability across our supply chain. Our aim is to further engage our suppliers in order to increase their participation
rate in the assessment.

GC&B Programme Impact

                                   2022                      2023

Farmers trained in GAP                   7,816
(Number)
                                                                                 18,424
Households covered
by CLMRS (Number)                                                  6,351

Individuals participating                                                        10,403
in women's empowerment
projects (Number)                                                  1,230

Cocoa sourcing area                                                       2,453
assessed for
deforestation risk                               31,309                              73,245
(ha)                                                    4,057             6,822

New cocoa agroforestry             59,048                                               181,710
systems established                                       11,493                         22,366
(ha)

Multipurpose trees
distributed on cocoa farms
(Number)

Farmers involved in our
direct supply chain (Number)

Improving Farmer Income

To ensure sustainable cocoa production, we are addressing
the intertwined challenges of low yields and low farmer
income tackle through farmer training and coaching. In
FY2023, we promoted capacity building of 18,424 farmers
to implement GAPs. This initiative not only qualifies them
for premium payments for sustainably produced cocoa
beans, but also leads to improved crop yield and quality.
Consequently, their income and earning potential is boosted
in both the short and longer term.
                            Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 101

                                                    SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Benefitting Farmers & their Communities                         as composting and integrated pest management, they
                                                                can cultivate more cocoa on less land, thereby reducing
To support farmers and their communities, we aim to             pressure to encroach on forest areas. Additionally, they
address key social challenges such as human rights, gender      recognise the importance of environmental stewardship,
justice, infrastructure and access to services. In particular,  including forest protection and restoration, as well as the
we expanded the reach of our CLMRS. During the year,            benefits of agroforestry systems.
10,403 households were covered by CLMRS, marking a
63.8% increase since FY2022.                                    GC&B actively promotes cocoa grown under agroforestry
                                                                systems by distributing shade trees to farmers. This
Moreover, we have renewed our focus on women’s                  initiative brings a multitude of ecosystem benefits, such as
empowerment, which includes initiatives such as the             improved soil and water management and enhanced farm
establishment of VSLAs. VSLAs enable members to save            productivity. In FY2023, over 181,000 shade trees were
money and access small loans. In 2023, 1,696 women were         distributed throughout GC&B farmer groups, with 6,822 ha
members of VLSAs across GC&B’s projects, and the loans          of cocoa agroforestry developed.
they accessed enabled them to send their children to school,
access medical care and grow their small businesses. Such       Providing Responsible Cocoa
activities generate wide-reaching benefits beyond women’s
empowerment, including improved living conditions and           To achieve our goal of 100% traceable and sustainable
increased opportunities for their households.                   cocoa1 in our direct sourcing network by 2030, we prioritise
                                                                full supply chain transparency. This visibility allows us to
                                                                verify the conditions and standards under which the beans
                                                                we source are grown.

                                                                This is accomplished through the implementation of digital
                                                                management and traceability systems, which include full
                                                                farmer databases along with records of activities, training
                                                                and premium payments. Moreover, polygon mapping in
                                                                conjunction with satellite monitoring precisely locates
                                                                farms, facilitating traceability. Third-party audits and
                                                                certifications also offer an additional assurance that
                                                                sustainability standards are being met.

Protecting the Environment                                      In alignment with our commitment to provide responsible
                                                                cocoa, we actively strive to increase the proportion of cocoa
                                                                procured through our direct supply chain. To this end, we
                                                                have increased the volume of cocoa beans in our direct
                                                                supply chain by approximately 27,000 MT.

As a CFI signatory, we remain steadfast in our commitment       Note:
to achieving zero cocoa-driven deforestation or conversion      1 Traceable and sustainable cocoa is cocoa produced according
of other natural ecosystems in our direct supply chain
by 2030. In 2023, we conducted deforestation risk                    to internationally recognised sustainability standards, which
assessments on more than 73,000 ha of cocoa farms from               includes traceability with location mapping, and requires
which we directly source our beans, ensuring no sourcing             addressing child labour and deforestation concerns.
from protected areas or further conversion of forest land.
Our provision of GAPs training serves to complement
these efforts. As cocoa farmers adopt practices such
102 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

      Climate Change Adaptation

      NAVIGATING CLIMATE CHALLENGES FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
Addressing climate change-related challenges is crucial for the sustainable growth of our cocoa and chocolate
manufacturing business. A shift toward sustainable farming practices and support for agroforestry initiatives are
growing imperatives in bolstering the resilience of farms amidst growing climate change concerns. At the same time,
the ongoing reliance on energy-intensive processes for manufacturing cocoa products further demands a transition to
renewable energy sources.

Beyond corporate responsibility, this approach is a strategic imperative for the Group's enduring sustainability and
adaptability to evolving global challenges.

OUR APPROACH

As part of our comprehensive efforts in this regard, we     Complementing this, we have expanded expert teams
have prioritised climate action by enhancing our energy     dedicated to enhancing our competencies across all
management, refining our data collection and emissions      aspects of energy management. By leveraging innovative
tracking, and implementing resource-efficient technologies  technologies and implementing best practices, we strive to
and practices.                                              optimise our operations and enhance our energy efficiency.

Embedding Climate Action as a Corporate Priority            Having established monitoring and reporting processes for
                                                            Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are extending our focus to
We are actively assessing climate-related transitional      improve accuracy and address Scope 3 emissions across
and physical risks through qualitative scenario analyses,   the value chain. We utilise a carbon measurement system to
considering both business-as-usual and net-zero scenarios,  monitor our carbon footprint throughout our operations and
with a commitment to continuously expand and refine our     supply chain, enabling us to create an inventory of carbon
scope of analysis in the coming years.                      emissions for our entire organisation. This demonstrates
                                                            our commitment to enhancing the accuracy of our reported
We are also dedicated to influencing our supply chain       emissions and establishing a foundation for tracking Scope
through sustainable procurement practices, encouraging      3 emissions over time.
suppliers to assess resource efficiency and minimise their
environmental impacts. Additionally, we are committed       Through our continued efforts in enhancing data collection,
to harnessing nature-based solutions through our GC&B       we have been able to quantify the emissions from
Programme, actively conserving forests while promoting      employee commuting and business travel. The accuracy of
agroforestry activities in cocoa farms.                     such measurements are imperative for acquiring significant
                                                            insights to initiate the development of our carbon reduction
READ  TCFD-Aligned Disclosures, page 123                    plan.
MORE
                                                            Additionally, we are actively working on quantifying LULUCF
Managing Energy & Emissions                                 emissions resulting from cocoa sourcing in our supply chain.
                                                            This involves collaborating with key stakeholders across the
GCB's approach to mitigating climate change risks involves  cocoa supply chain to develop effective strategies aimed at
investment in a comprehensive energy management             reducing deforestation practices and GHG emissions.
system that rigorously monitors and minimises energy
wastage. This not only serves to reduce GHG emissions but
also ensures our efficient use of resources.
                                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 103

                                                                                  SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Transitioning towards Renewable Energy Deployment

A key strategy in addressing climate change is the transition to renewable energy sources. At GCB, we acknowledge the
need for innovation in renewable energy technologies, such as solar panels and biomass boilers. Our gradual shift away
from traditional fossil fuel-based power generation methods underscores our contribution towards mitigating the impacts
of climate change.

Our investment in renewable technology serves as a testament to our dedication to adopt cleaner forms of power
generation that align with global environmental conservation efforts.

To instil a collective commitment among all our employees, our Environmental Policy guides our efforts in raising awareness
and educating our workforce on the significance of sustainable energy consumption and recommended best practices.

OUR PERFORMANCE

Energy                                                      Energy Sources (GJ)           2021        2022                        20231

GCB consistently monitors and strives to optimise energy    Renewable            118,159        112,537 66,140
consumption during operational and production processes
without compromising product quality. In addition to        Non-Renewable        764,150        823,377 862,589
achieving a slight decrease in overall energy consumption
during FY2023 despite heightened production outputs, we     Total                882,309        935,914 928,729
have boosted our use of solar-powered electricity by 42.7%
compared to the previous reporting period.

Group Energy Consumption

1,000,000                                                                                                   4.40
  900,000
  800,000                                                                                                   4.20
Energy Consumption (GJ)700,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Product Energy Intensity (GJ/MT Produced)600,0004.00
  500,000
  400,000                                                                                                   3.80
  300,000
  200,000                                                                                                   3.60
  100,000
            0                                                                                               3.40

Electricity                                                                                                 3.20

                                                                  3.08

                            2.96                                                                2.82        3.00
                                                                                                            2.80

                                                                                                            2.60

               2021                                         2022                                                               0

                                                            LPG                           20231

               Natural Gas  Heat Purchased  Diesel                 Solar Energy  Biomass  Energy Intensity (GJ/MT Produced)

Note:
1 Reporting scope expanded to include Carlyle in FY2023.
104 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

GHG Emissions

As a manufacturing entity, GCB is cognisant of the environmental impacts of our emissions. To that end, we continue to
track emissions from significant sources to closely monitor and minimise our emissions trajectory, with all major sources
of emissions from energy generation recorded within our internal data system. In FY2023, our reported emissions totalled
90,917 tCO2e, representing a decrease of 4.9% from FY2022.

GHG Emissions (tCO2e)                           2022    2023
Scope 1: Direct Emissions (A)                 25,121  23,358
Scope 2: Location-based Indirect Emissions    77,106  73,450
Scope 2: Market-based Indirect Emissions (B)  70,462  67,559
Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (A+B)             95,583  90,917

Scope 3: Business Travel Emissions (C)          400     712
Scope 3: Employee Commute Emissions (D)       1,454   1,574
Total Scope 3 Emissions (C+D)                 1,854   2,286

Emission Intensity of Products (tCO2e/mt)      0.32    0.28
Biogenic Emissions (tCO2e)                    7,982   4,315

GCB will continue exploring innovative opportunities to reduce emissions, with our adoption of renewable energy
underscoring our commitment to sustainable growth. In this regard, the installation of solar panels in our Malaysian
facilities recorded a cumulative 1,579 tCO2e of avoided emissions in FY2023.

Notes:
1 Collection of GHG Emission data started from 2022.
2 Our Scope 1 direct emissions come from using fuel and refrigerants in our manufacturing factories within the reporting scope. Fuel

     combustion estimates were estimated from boiler operations in these factories.
3 Our Scope 2 emissions come from purchased electricity and heating, including electricity and steam used in manufacturing processes

     at our factories within our reporting scope. Market-based emissions were based on emission factors from energy providers, with
     location-based factors used if they are unavailable.
4 Our Scope 3 emissions only include business travel tracked by internal accounting systems and commuting behaviour surveyed from
     employees.
5 Emissions were calculated by a third-party carbon measurement service provider, while a recalculation of total direct and indirect
     GHG emissions in 2022 was done to reflect changes.
              Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 105

                                      SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Mindful Water Management

MANAGEMENT OF WATER & EFFLUENTS

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
Water is vital for the sustenance of ecosystems upon which we depend. As a manufacturing enterprise reliant on a
consistent water supply for our operations, we acknowledge the fundamental role water plays in supporting our long-
term sustainability and have consistently prioritised responsible water and effluent management across the Group.

In recognising the urgency of minimising and enhancing the efficiency of water consumption, we remain committed to
bolstering our water resource management.

OUR APPROACH

Effective and sustainable water management is recognised    Water Discharge Management
as a fundamental aspect of our Group's commitment
to sustainability. To this end, we have incorporated        In order to mitigate potential negative effects on the
our commitments into comprehensive Group-wide               local environment resulting from our water discharge, we
Environmental and Sustainable Development policies,         have implemented dedicated water treatment facilities
which are subject to regular assessments to ensure          at our major manufacturing facilities. These specialised
their continued relevance and alignment with evolving       facilities are designed to remove contaminants from our
regulations.                                                wastewater, ensuring that all discharged effluents conform
                                                            to acceptable regulatory standards and may be disposed of
Water Conservancy                                           in a safe manner.

In our commitment to responsible water management           We simultaneously conduct regular monitoring of our
throughout the Group, we maintain a vigilant approach       treated wastewater, employing recommended water quality
to monitoring water utilisation in our manufacturing        tests to assess its compliance. Regular reports detailing
processes, benchmarking optimal water usage as a key        the results of these tests are submitted to the relevant
criteria for achieving operational excellence.              local authorities, such as the Department of Environment.
                                                            To oversee the continued effectiveness of our wastewater
We have established strategies to enhance water             treatment procedures, an authorised competent person is
conservation within our operational processes and           designated at each operational site.
facilitate increased water conservation, underscored by
improvements made on our innovative automation systems
and machinery to minimise water usage in our Indonesia
and Malaysia factories.

Furthermore, our ongoing efforts extend to promoting
responsible practices among our workforce. We
continuously raise awareness about water conservation
through the strategic deployment of educational posters
at our operational sites, underscoring the significance of
reusing, recycling and optimising water throughout our
processes.
106 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

 OUR PERFORMANCE

As a food manufacturer, securing access to a reliable and sustainable water supply is paramount for our operations. The
water we utilise is primarily withdrawn from municipal water networks, with the exception of SSIG, which withdraws a
proportion of its supply from well water.

Total Water Withdrawal (ML)           2023

Malaysia                             171.3
Indonesia                              97.4
Germany
US1                                  869.3
Group                                    9.1

                                   1,147.1

Total Water Discharged (ML)2       2023

Malaysia                            30.3
Indonesia                           13.7
Germany                            869.3
US1
Group                                 0.4
                                   913.7

Notes:
1 Reporting scope expanded to include Carlyle in 2023.
2 Water discharged consist of effluents, used water and unused water released to surface water, groundwater, seawater or a third party, for

     which the organisation has no further use, over the course of the reporting period.
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 107

                        SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Responsible Consumption

RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION & WASTE MINIMISATION

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
To promote responsible consumption, it is imperative to prioritise the conservation of valuable resources through
optimised utilisation and minimisation of the waste we generate. This approach not only mitigates potential
environmental impacts but also alleviates the burden on landfills and waste disposal systems.

By exploring innovative recycling approaches to address our produced waste, we align ourselves with the increasing
demand from our customers and stakeholders for responsible consumption practices, subsequently building trust in
our brand and fostering heightened loyalty.

 OUR APPROACH

At the core of our waste management strategy lies a
commitment to prioritise strict adherence to all relevant
laws and regulations governing waste disposal. This
commitment is reinforced by our Environmental Policy,
which is subject to regular assessment by the ERM
Committee to improve risk management and control
implementation. Going beyond meeting legal requirements,
we have institutionalised a culture of responsible waste
management within the Group.

Utilising Cocoa Shells to Harness Green Energy

As a cocoa processing entity, one of the prominent by-          Promoting Waste Circularity
products from our production facilities is cocoa shells. In
Malaysia, a portion of these cocoa shells serves as feed for    Recognising the significance of resource management,
our biomass boiler – a practice that we have also expanded      we have elevated our focus on "Circular Economy" as
to our newest processing facility in Côte d'Ivoire, GCBCCI.     a key environmental consideration, reflected in our
Meanwhile, in other production facilities, these shells are     establishment of the Circular Economy Workstream within
sold to external parties for repurposing.                       our sustainability governance structure. We are also
                                                                progressively and holistically enhancing our approach to
Our efforts to recycle cocoa shells also form an integral part  waste management, with more attention being paid to the
of our emission reduction efforts. By recycling cocoa shells    entire lifecycle of utilised materials as we look to unlock
in specially designed biomass boilers at our Malaysian and      greater circularity.
Côte d'Ivoire factories, we are able to unlock a green and
renewable source of fuel via the steam generated from           These efforts are directed toward reducing total waste
the boiling process. This innovative harnessing of waste-       generation, improving overall consumption patterns,
to-energy technology not only reduces our reliance on           inspiring better production techniques and enhancing our
purchased fuel for operations at these facilities but also      waste management practices, with a specific emphasis on
serves to mitigate our carbon emissions and contribute to       recycling. To ensure clarity, we have organised our waste
our climate action objectives.                                  management priorities in order of importance: prevention,
                                                                reduction, reusing, recycling, other forms of recovery (such
                                                                as energy recovery) and disposal.
108 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Cocoa Shells Utilisation for Energy Generation
                                               EXHAUST

         BREAKING  ALKALISING      GRINDING
       WINNOWING

                                                        COCOA   BIOMASS  COCOA
                                                        SHELLS   BOILER   CAKE

COCOA                                                                           COCOA   COCOA
BEANS                                                                            PRESS  BUTTER

       COCOA                       COCOA
       SHELLS                      LIQUOR

Robust Waste Management Protocols

One of our foremost sustainability priorities revolves around the responsible management of waste to mitigate potential
risks, especially concerning hazardous waste. To accomplish this, a competent supervisor is stationed at each of our
operational locations to oversee waste management processes and ensure strict compliance.

For both hazardous and non-hazardous waste, dedicated departments are responsible for monitoring waste-related data
and regularly providing updated monthly records that detail waste generation and disposal. Should any issues with waste
management come to light, our Safety Officer steps in to conduct a root cause investigation and develop a corrective
action plan to rectify and prevent future instances of non-compliance.

 OUR PERFORMANCE

As part of our commitment to prioritise environmental stewardship, we aspire to meet industry best practices in tracking
and reporting our waste generation and management performance.

Waste Generation & Management

In line with GCB's Environmental Policy, which emphasises the reduction of environmental impact risks, we advocate for
continual improvements in our efforts to minimise waste, enhance recycling practices and conserve resources.
                                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 109

                                                                                  SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Waste Production & Treatment

               Hazardous waste

               179 MT

   20231
Total Waste
 Generated
20,904 MT

               Non-hazardous waste

               20,725 MT

    20231      Recycling
 Total Waste
Diverted from  1,797 MT

   Disposal    Preparation for reuse
  17,090 MT    and other reprocessing

               15,293 MT

   20231                      Cocoa shells converted
Total Waste                   to fuel onsite
Directed to
                              3,004 MT
  Disposal
                              Incineration (with
 3,814 MT                     energy recovery)

                              146 MT

                              Landfilling

                              498 MT

                              Other disposal
                              operations

                              166 MT

Note:
1 Reporting scope extended to include Carlyle in FY2023.
110 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

                Caring Beyond Cocoa

                STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES & PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?

Staying mindful of local communities and the environment serves as a guiding principle that keeps us connected to the
broader impacts of our business and operations. This enables us to focus not only on the quality and sustainability of
our products, but also on our impact beyond the cocoa supply chain. Through our CSR initiative, CBC, we are dedicated
to making positive contributions to community development and promoting environmental awareness efforts.

 OUR APPROACH

Our CSR efforts are a key component of our sustainability strategy, represented as one of our six key sustainability
workstreams. To ensure our CSR efforts are impactful and meaningful, we have established a dedicated team to guide and
oversee our CBC initiatives, which are carried out across the three key pillars of "Thriving Communities", "Healthy Planet"
and "Happy Employees".

                Happy Employee
                                                 T
                                         s                                              • Happy Employees is focused on ensuring the well-
                                                                                             being, happiness and active engagement of our
                Ca                                                                           staff.

                                                                                        READ  Diversity & Inclusion, page 112
                                                                                        MORE

                ring Beyond Coco                  a                                     • Healthy Planet actively supports local
                                                                                  ties       environmental initiatives while concurrently raising
Healthy Planet                                    hriving Communi                            awareness on the pressing need for environmental
                                                                                             protection.

                                                                                        • Thriving Communities is dedicated to social
                                                                                             causes, extending support to empower vulnerable
                                                                                             groups such as youth, low-income individuals and
                                                                                             rural communities.

We have put in place a CSR Policy and Procedure to ensure that the CBC team maintains transparency and accountability
towards all relevant stakeholders.
                                                                                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 111

                                                                               SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

 OUR PERFORMANCE

Throughout the year, we executed a diverse array of outreach initiatives that showcased our commitment to give back
to the local communities and contribute to a healthier planet. In total, we contributed over RM132,000 towards our CSR
initiatives, with some key highlights shown below:
Turtle Conservation & Beach Clean-Up

Sea turtles play a crucial role in maintaining a healthy marine ecosystem. They help to preserve coral reefs and sea grass
beds, which are essential for the survival of marine creatures. However, the sea turtle population is under threat from
poaching, pollution and accidental entanglement in non-turtle friendly fishing nets. SEATRU thus plays an important role
in regional sea turtle conservation.

Recognising the importance of SEATRU's work, GCB collaborated with them to support their turtle conservation efforts.
GCB volunteers participated in the Chagar Hutang Turtle Sanctuary's turtle nesting project, which aims to relocate turtle
eggs away from predators. Over the three-day programme, our volunteers were able to protect 56 green sea turtle nests,
which translated to approximately 2,000 green turtle hatchlings being released into the ocean.

Sponsoring B40 Participants for the Older Faster Stronger Run

                                                                                        We supported social causes under the Thriving Communities
                                                                                        pillar, which includes promoting healthy ageing and
                                                                                        empowering vulnerable groups. As part of expanding our
                                                                                        efforts in this area, we partnered with Hospital Sultan
                                                                                        Abdul Aziz Shah to sponsor 100 runners from the bottom
                                                                                        40% of Malaysia's household income group ("B40") to
                                                                                        participate in the Older Faster Stronger Run 2023, which
                                                                                        focuses on promoting healthy ageing in Malaysia.

Upgrading Schools' Infrastructure

                                   For education centres, limited funds for essential
                                   amenities impact the learning environment. Recognising
                                   this, GCB, through our Thriving Communities initiative,
                                   refurbished Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan Tamil Ladang
                                   Lambak’s canteen and meeting area with new furniture,
                                   as well as contributed to a new building construction
                                   for Chung Hwa High School in Muar. As a result of
                                   the upgraded infrastructure, a conducive learning
                                   environment has been fostered for both schools.
112 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Diversity & Inclusion

FOSTERING TALENT DEVELOPMENT & GROWTH

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?

Diversity and inclusion are integral components of a sustainable workplace ecosystem. This significance lies in their
ability to foster innovation and creativity, leading to better decision-making and problem-solving processes. When
individuals from diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives come together, they bring unique solutions to
the table. This also strengthens GCB's reputation, attracting talent and customers who value diversity and inclusivity.
Therefore, prioritising diversity and inclusion in the workplace is essential to achieve sustainable growth and
development.

OUR APPROACH

We are committed to creating a workplace that is              Creating a Culture of Continuous Learning
supportive, with fair and inclusive hiring practices
implemented across our global operations. Moreover, we        As part of our efforts to bolster internal sustainability
ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to grow         competencies, we have set up a team of Sustainability
and contribute to the organisation’s success.                 Advocates, comprising employees across various
                                                              subsidiaries who are deeply passionate about the topic.
Providing Equal Opportunities & Fair Wages                    These advocates support our sustainability team’s efforts
                                                              in engaging and educating our people on sustainability-
Our HRA Department is responsible for overseeing all          related topics, while also serving as a key point of contact
interactions between employers and employees in our           for providing feedback on our sustainability initiatives
Group. We ensure that all our practices comply with           within our global subsidiaries.
the guidelines outlined in our Employee Handbook and
the Code, promoting impartial and non-discriminatory          Beyond professional development, we are also invested
practices towards job applicants and employees across all     in the personal development of our employees, organising
our offices.                                                  workshops throughout the year around topics such as
                                                              personal financial management and problem-solving.
We provide equal opportunities for all employees,
regardless of their gender, race and sexual orientation. Our  Caring Beyond Cocoa - Happy Employees
Finance and HRA Departments work together to oversee
all aspects of wages, including providing fair entry-level    We prioritise the well-being of our employees by organising
wages that meet minimum wage requirements, and                activities to improve health and fitness. These initiatives
ensuring that our compensation framework is fair. We also     encourage our employees to adopt a healthier and more
emphasise acknowledging and rewarding the achievements        active lifestyle. By doing so, we not only promote a positive
and efforts of our employees fairly and equitably.            workplace culture but also increase productivity, employee
                                                              satisfaction and inclusive engagement.
                                                                                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 113

                                                                               SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Yoga Classes

Nutrition Day
Building a Collaborative Culture
To strengthen communication and collaboration among various departments within GCB, we organise various activities to
foster employee bonding. One of these activities was the Chocolate Rush Competition, where employees were challenged
to create unique chocolate-themed desserts using GCB’s cocoa powder. Another activity featured in 2023 was the Cactus
Terrarium Workshop, which enabled employees to showcase their creativity in making their own terrariums, which they
were subsequently allowed to take home. Designed to enhance inclusivity, these activities helped employees from
different departments get to know each other on a more personal level, breaking down departmental silos and fostering
a more unified culture.
114 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Chocolate Rush Competition

Cactus Terrarium Workshop
Upholding Employee Rights
At GCB, we maintain zero-tolerance towards any form of harassment, bullying or discrimination. We have established
a structured process, as outlined in our Internal Grievance Procedure, to effectively manage employee complaints. To
ensure our policies concerning labour rights align with local and regional regulations, we keep a close eye on labour
market dynamics in the regions where we operate and continuously monitor the prevailing conditions. Moreover, we
gather insights from performance reviews and employee feedback to progressively enhance our labour practices.
                                                 Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 115

                                                                         SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

 OUR PERFORMANCE

As an industrial player, we strive to establish an exemplary approach in our hiring practices and employee welfare
provisions through robust practices that align with international human rights frameworks, enabling us to sustainably
manage our operations.

Diverse Workforce & Talent Pool Expansion

We are pleased to report a lower turnover rate than FY2022, demonstrating our progress in fostering a conducive workplace
environment that empowers our global workforce.

Employee Headcount                           2022 : 1,275                                         2023 : 1,444
                2021 : 1,241

Workforce by Employee Category & Age Group in 2023

                                   90%                                                            78%

                 10%                                          66%                          12%                  10%
0%                                                                              28%
                                                                                                  Assistant Managers
 Senior Management                           6%

                                              Middle Management

49%                                          53%                                                  Under 30 (%)
                                                               39%                                30-50 (%)
     44%                                                                          8%              Over 50 (%)

                              7%                  Non-Executives                                          87%

     Executives                                                                                                          13%

Workforce by Employee Category & Gender in 2023                                                      Non-Executives

 70%                          60%

                30%                          51%                                      53%

    Senior                              40%            49%                                 47%
Management
                                  Middle     Assistant                                Executives
                              Management     Managers

                                             Male (%)       Female (%)
116 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                          GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

New Employee Hires                                                                     By Gender
                                By Age Group

                                                                     Total Group-wide  Total Group-wide    Total Group-wide
                                                                              27%               33%                 31%

                           76%

74%                                           74%

                                                                     88%                         89%

                                                                                                                       81%

     25%

                                22%                     23%                                                                 19%
                                                                3%
                                          2%                              12%                         11%
                                2022                 20231
               1%                             Over 50 (%)            2021                        2022                  20231
     2021                         30-50 (%)
                                                                                       Male (%)            Female (%)
             Under 30 (%)

Employee Turnover

                           By Age Group                                                By Gender

                           70%                                       Total Group-wide  Total Group-wide    Total Group-wide
                                                                              24%               27%                 24%
60%                                           65%
                                                                         92%               88%                  82%

     37%

                                27%                    28%

                                                                 7%                                                         18%
                                                     20231
                                              Over 50 (%)                                             12%

               3%                        3%                               8%                     2022                  20231
     2021                       2022                                 2021

             Under 30 (%)         30-50 (%)                                            Male (%)            Female (%)

Note:
1 Reporting scope expanded to included Carlyle in FY2023.
                                                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 117

                                                                           SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Parental Leave Utilisation

As part of our commitment to supporting work-life balance and implementing family-friendly policies, parental leave
entitlements are contractually provided to eligible employees as part of their benefits package, in compliance with local
legislation.

Parental Leave Utilisation                                    2021            2022          20231

Total number of employees who took                 Male  60              59             47
parental leave
                                                                    76              69             53

                                                   Female 16             10             6

Total number of employees that returned to         Male  60              59             47

work in the reporting period after parental leave                   75              69             52

ended                                              Female 15             10             5

Return to work rate of employees that               Male 100%       99%  100%  100%     100%  98%
took parental leave                                Female 94%            100%           83%2

Notes:
1 Reporting scope expanded to include Carlyle in FY2023.
2 The return to work rate includes individuals who were still on leave and had not resumed their duties by the end of FY2023.

At GCB, we firmly believe that respecting human rights is not only a moral imperative but also essential for our business's
long-term success. We recognise that our customers, investors and other stakeholders increasingly consider the ethical
and social impact of the companies they engage with. Accordingly, no substantiated complaints regarding human rights
violations within our operational facilities across all our entities were recorded in FY2023 through our whistleblowing
channels. GCB’s Human Rights and Labour Policy and Procedure strictly prohibits the use of forced and child labour within
our own supply chain, while our Supplier Code of Conduct conveys this expectation to our suppliers.

Capacity Building & Career Development

In FY2023, our people invested a total of 11,645 hours in training and development programmes, while we also ensured
that 100% of employees underwent performance and career development reviews. This commitment allowed us to
continuously enhance efficiency and performance, solidifying our standing as Asia's largest and the world's 4th largest
cocoa products manufacturer.

Trainings Conducted

       Safety and Health                                       Food Handling

       Halal Executive                                         Tax and Audit

       Waste and Contamination Management                      Mechanical Instruments
118 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Empowering Our People

DRIVING CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH & SAFETY

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
Ensuring a competent, motivated and safeguarded workforce remains a crucial driver for ensuring the sustainability
of our business operations. As a food industry business with operations across the globe, it is vital that we develop a
framework that prioritises the inculcation of safe and healthy working environments across all the Group’s businesses.
Simultaneously, we aim to nurture our reputation as a supportive and progressive employer that places great emphasis
on the personal and professional development of our employees.

These collective efforts will empower our employees to perform tasks effectively and contribute meaningfully to their
respective department's objectives and targets.

OUR APPROACH

We are dedicated to creating a conducive working                Enhancing Employee Health &
environment for our employees that drives continuous            Safety Competencies
improvements in workplace safety practices and employee
performance, thereby enhancing workplace efficiency.            We prioritise equipping our employees with the essential
                                                                resources and know-how to effectively address health
Institutionalising a Safe Work Environment                      and safety concerns. While safety competency training is
                                                                mandatory for all relevant employees during their GCB
Local Health and Safety Committees, comprising both             induction, we also provide regular additional training for
employee and management representatives, jointly make           our Safety Officers to ensure they stay updated on the
decisions on workplace safety to encourage diverse and          latest regulatory best practices and are able to assist in
transparent discussions. These committees convene               minimising operational risks.
regularly to openly address safety concerns, review
accidents and near-miss incidents, and evaluate the             For employees exposed to high-risk environments or
need for stricter controls. Employees are encouraged to         situations in the course of their work, we offer job-specific
report non-compliance directly to their Health and Safety       safety training as part of their onboarding, and they are also
Committee and may also use our whistleblower channel to         provided with necessary protective equipment. In addition
raise concerns about unsafe behaviour, including dangerous      to this, we provide regular refresher training courses for
situations.                                                     all emergency response team members to ensure their
                                                                competencies align with industry requirements.
As an effort to ensure the effective implementation
of mandatory health and safety standards, we have               In our manufacturing subsidiaries, emergency response
appointed Safety Officers within each of our subsidiaries       teams comprising certified first aiders and trained
that function as an on-ground extension of the Health           firefighters have been set up, tasked with conducting
and Safety Committee. To assess potential hazards in our        emergency drills annually. This allows us to test our
operations, we conduct hazard and operability analyses          alarm systems and helps familiarise our employees with
routinely, entailing the use of a hierarchy of controls by the  evacuation procedures and the location of firefighting
local Health and Safety Committee to minimise or eliminate      equipment. All our premises have obtained fire safety
identified hazards. If work-related incidents happen, safety    certificates from their relevant local governments,
officers promptly investigate them to determine the root        providing assurance that our firefighting measures meet
cause and establish corrective control measures. The            the necessary standards and are well-maintained.
effectiveness of these measures is subsequently monitored
during monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings.
This diligent framework ensures constant vigilance in this
critical area of importance.
Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 119

                        SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Continuously Improving our Health & Safety Practices

In pursuit of optimal health and safety outcomes across the Group, we consistently review our performance and seek
improvement opportunities. Monthly management meetings provide a platform for presenting monthly safety reports and
addressing any matters related to occupational health and safety raised by relevant parties. Regular internal and external
safety audits are also undertaken throughout the year, identifying opportunities to improve processes.

 OUR PERFORMANCE

GCB has consistently worked to reduce occupational hazards and incidents, with our related progress in FY2023 reflecting
our ongoing efforts to enhance employee welfare.

Accordingly, we are proud to report there were no work-related fatalities in FY2023, a record we have now maintained for
three consecutive years. While injuries occurred in FY2023, thorough assessments conducted by our Safety Officers has
led to the implementation of appropriate preventive measures to reduce the likelihood of future incidents.

Hours worked (Number)                                           20231
Lost time incidents (Number)
Fatalities (Number)                                       3,203,107
Lost Time Incident Rate (per 200,000 hours)                         30
Employees trained on health & safety standards (Number)               0
                                                                   1.9
Note:
1 Reporting scope expanded to include Carlyle in FY2023.        1,444

Promotion of Worker Health

As a global business entity, we also undertake additional initiatives to further safeguard our people. All of our business
entities provide employees access to a diverse array of non-occupational medical and healthcare services, ranging from
dental and general practitioner coverage to financial support for hospitalisation via our insurance schemes.

At the same time, we ensure that we meet all compulsory regional requirements, such as mandatory social security
contributions. Due to our presence in various locations across the globe, employees in different regions may be provided
with different types of coverage that nevertheless achieve similar objectives.
120 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

      Product Quality & Safety

                        OUR DEDICATION TO EXEMPLARY PRODUCT QUALITY

WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
We approach our responsibilities with the utmost attentiveness to uphold the trust and well-being of our customers.
Our commitment to high food safety standards is an extension of our duty to both local and international clients who
depend on us to reliably produce their cocoa components and chocolates.

With this objective in mind, we place great emphasis on ensuring complete adherence to all relevant food safety
criteria and governmental regulations in our food production. Furthermore, we continuously nurture a culture of food
safety within our workforce and meticulously enforce stringent controls to maintain the quality of our products.

OUR APPROACH

Integral to our commitment to crafting superior, secure          meticulously maintain all relevant documentation within
consumables is a comprehensive strategy that ingrains            our database to facilitate process traceability and ensure
the significance of food safety throughout our operational       compliance with regulations.
practices, equipping our employees with the essential
tools, knowledge and resources to consistently meet our          Additionally, each employee and worker who gains access
benchmarks of excellence.                                        to our manufacturing sites undergoes food safety training.
                                                                 Besides that, we have implemented a well-documented
Embedding Food Safety in our Core                                programme for product recall and withdrawal, inclusive
                                                                 of written instructions for retrieval procedures. Through
To effectively convey our unwavering commitment to food          these proactive and stringent safety measures, we bolster
safety and quality amongst our employees, and firmly             our efforts to manage food safety risks, mitigate potential
establish food safety as a core element of GCB’s identity, the   hazards and instil unwavering confidence in the quality of
Food Safety and Quality Policy provides guidance on best         our products among our customers.
practices upheld across the Group. This policy ensures the
ongoing alignment of our facilities with globally recognised
industry standards and local regulations, enabling us to
achieve and maintain the following certifications.

READ  Snapshot of FY2023, page 17
MORE

Incorporating the principles and procedures endorsed by
recognised food safety standards directly into our SOPs,
we assure thorough oversight of our finished products by
conducting quality assessments at various production control
points. Our QA and QC teams shoulder the responsibility
of overseeing manufacturing processes, risk analysis and
traceability across our value chain.

By scrutinising the results of product quality evaluations from
our assessments on incoming raw materials and outgoing
products, we consistently enhance our quality management
systems. Furthermore, we regularly conduct internal food
safety audits to uphold our elevated standards, utilise third-
party assessments to provide additional assurance, and
                                  Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 121

                                                          SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS

Empowering Quality in the Supply Chain

Acknowledging the pivotal role that suppliers play in shaping the success and sustainability of our operations, we are deeply
invested in nurturing robust and respectful relationships with essential stakeholders throughout our supply chain network.
This collaborative stance empowers us to maintain the quality of ingredients while responding to the evolving needs of our
valued customers and consumers. Within this framework, our Supplier Quality Expectation Manual lists out the standards
we expect from our suppliers, encompassing manufacturing practices, quality assessments, packaging and protocols for
crisis management.

New potential suppliers undergo assessments to ensure their strict adherence to our quality management systems and
manufacturing controls. Their ingredients are integrated into our production processes only after receiving approval from our
QA and QC teams. Additionally, we provide ingredient suppliers with a Supplier Self-Assessment Checklist, which serves as
a measure of quality and encourages enhancements in our food safety programmes and manufacturing controls.

To reinforce our commitment to guaranteeing quality sourcing, GCB conducts site audits as part of our comprehensive
strategy to evaluate and oversee process controls and documentation. Suppliers are mandated to meet the minimum
prerequisites for food safety management and take prompt corrective actions when required.

 OUR PERFORMANCE

GCB steadfastly aspires to meet the diverse expectations of our customers, with a stringent commitment to enhancing
product quality. We assess all our products for health and safety improvements, while our global subsidiaries manufacturing
practices are in line with internationally recognised food certifications and standards, consistently monitored by our QA
Department.

To evolve with changing customer requirements, we implement continuous improvement measures based on their
feedback, enhancing our production and manufacturing processes to ensure delivery of the highest quality products and
customer satisfaction.

In FY2023, this commitment translated into zero incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes
regarding health and safety impacts across all reporting subsidiaries. Prioritising customer health and safety is another
critical aspect of our operations. We consistently provide cocoa products that cater to the unique needs and preferences
of our discerning customers. We are proud to note that in FY2023, no recalls were issued for health and safety reasons
across our reporting entities.

100%                              0 incidents                         0 recalls

of our products and services are  of non-compliance with regulations  were issued in FY2023 for health
assessed for health and safety    or voluntary codes concerning the   and safety reasons
impact improvements               health and safety impacts of our
                                  products and services in FY2023
122 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

ADDITIONAL
DISCLOSURES

123 TCFD-Aligned Disclosures
126 GRI Content Index
130 Performance Data Table
134 Material Matters (Appendix)
                                                                                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 123

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

TCFD-ALIGNED DISCLOSURES

ELEVATING OUR TCFD COMMITMENTS TO DRIVE CLIMATE ACTION

GCB is committed to actively participating in the transition toward a low-carbon economy, recognising the growing interest
of our stakeholders. This marks our first year incorporating TCFD Recommendations into our SS to provide transparent
disclosures and a better assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities. It outlines the potential impacts of climate
change on our business and how we plan to address them. This section focuses specifically on risks and opportunities
related to climate, which should be considered alongside the rest of the SS for a comprehensive understanding.

Governance

The ultimate responsibility for assessing and integrating climate-related risks and opportunities rests with the Board.
To support the Board in this endeavour, the ERM Committee ensures that climate-related risks and opportunities are
integrated into the organisation's ERM framework. Quarterly Board meetings provide a platform for discussing climate-
related issues along with other sustainability matters.

The responsibility for managing our climate-related risks and opportunities lies with the SSC, which is chaired by an
Executive Director. The SSC actively engages in identifying, assessing and integrating these considerations into our
business operations. Additionally, it formulates GCB's sustainability strategy aimed at transitioning towards a low-carbon
economy, specifically through implementing the Climate Action Strategy, while receiving valuable support from the SD.

           READ
           MORE Sustainability Governance, page 80 & Material Matters, page 52

Strategy

GCB has engaged in focused discussions with internal stakeholders to identify localised climate risks that are relevant to
the Group. We have conducted a qualitative scenario analysis using the scenarios from IPCC and NGFS.

The Group’s climate-related risks and opportunities were modelled based on the following scenarios:

Scenario            Scenario Description                                 Assessed for
IPCC RCP 8.5/4°C
                    A “business as usual” scenario depicting a future in which Physical risks
NGFS Net Zero 2050  emissions remain high, resulting in significant increases
                    in the global average temperature.

                    An ambitious pathway that aims to achieve net-zero   Transition risks and
                    emissions by 2050 through rigorous climate policies  opportunities
                    and innovations.

Based on the hypothetical scenarios outlined above, we have assessed the potential impact of the identified risks and
opportunities on our business and have consequently developed adaptation and mitigation plans. Cognisant of the
evolving risks, GCB will continue strengthening our controls.

Note:
This report includes statements that look to the future, based on current expectations and assumptions about expected developments
and other factors. These are not historical facts nor guarantees of future performance as they are influenced by various assumptions, risks,
and uncertainties which evolve over time. Forward-looking statements only reflect on the date they were made, and actual performance
could differ significantly from what is expressed or implied by these statements due to a variety of factors. GCB does not have an
obligation to update forward-looking statements but aims to improve its disclosures in the future to provide valuable information to
stakeholders by adjusting our assessments according to new facts and regulations.
124 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                   GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
TCFD-ALIGNED DISCLOSURES

Climate-related Risks

Scenarios  Risk Type        Climate-related Risks                Potential Impacts
IPCC RCP                    & Opportunities
8.5/4°C
           Physical risk    The increased frequency and          • Floods have the potential to harm
NGFS Net   (Acute)          severity of extreme weather events     infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and
Zero                        such as floods.                        jeopardise the well-being of our employees.

                                                                 • To ensure that our operations remain
                                                                   unaffected, additional preventive resources
                                                                   will be necessary to facilitate our adaptation
                                                                   to changing weather conditions.

           Transition risk  Policies aimed at reducing           • Increasing raw material costs can escalate
           (Regulatory)     climate emissions, including the       the cost of business operations.
                            implementation of carbon taxes,
                            regulations related to land and      • Expanding reporting obligations for climate-
                            water use, and limitations or          related disclosures.
                            prohibitions on certain materials.
                                                                 • Alignment with current and upcoming
                                                                   regulatory obligations is crucial to mitigate
                                                                   the potential impact of future carbon taxes
                                                                   and associated rising costs.

                                                                 • Addressing the regulatory risks associated
                                                                   with eliminating deforestation in commodity
                                                                   supply chains, as exemplified by recent
                                                                   EUDR, is essential.

           Transition risk  Increased concerns or negative       • Neglecting climate-related risks or failing
           (Reputation)     feedback from stakeholders may         to take appropriate action can harm GCB's
                            lead consumers to possibly support     reputation among stakeholders, resulting in a
                            more sustainable brands or avoid       loss of trust and confidence.
                            certain product categories based
                            on their environmental credentials,  • This, in turn, may lead investors to choose
                            resulting in shifts in supply and      to withdraw their investments from GCB in
                            demand.                                favour of more sustainable companies.

           Transition risk  High capital investments into new    • Increased expenses involving the
           (Technology)     and lower-emission technologies,       replacement and substitution of emission-
                            including the costs of integrating     intensive assets, materials and services.
                            them into existing operations.

           Opportunity      The transition to lower emissions    • Enhanced competitive position aligned with
           (Products)       products.                              changing consumer preferences.

                                                                 • Greater revenue generation through
                                                                   increased demand for lower emission
                                                                   products.

           Opportunity      The adoption of carbon abatement     • Embracing low-emission technologies, which
           (Energy source)  technologies and increased usage       might reduce costs in the long term.
                            of renewable energy.
                                                                 • Diversifying our energy mix to improve
                                                                   resource efficiency and energy security.

The ability of an organisation to adapt and thrive in the face of changing circumstances and emerging risks is crucial for its
resilience. To achieve this resilience, we leverage climate-related scenarios to ensure that our overall climate-related risk
strategy considers a diverse range of impacts.
                                            Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 125

                                                                SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
                                                            TCFD-ALIGNED DISCLOSURES

To this end, we have conducted qualitative scenario                 3. Strategic response and control measures:
analysis to identify potential risks and opportunities,
which inform our long-term business strategies focused on            • The ERM Committee will review the effectiveness of
sustainability. Our objective is to develop a resilient strategy        existing controls based on risk levels.
that effectively addresses the risks associated with climate
change while capitalising on relevant opportunities.                 • High and significant risks require active management
                                                                        through risk action plans. Medium risks need
Risk Management                                                         periodic monitoring and review. Low risks may be
                                                                        accepted with adequate controls.
All our identified risks, including climate-related risks,
are assessed and managed through our risk management                 • Responses include risk avoidance, reduction, sharing
process, which is integrated into our ERM framework. This               or acceptance.
framework is in accordance with the ISO 31000:2018 Risk
Management Guidelines.                                               • Control measures are either preventive, detective or
                                                                        corrective.
Risks are identified, assessed and managed through the
following process:                                                  4. Deliberation of risks:

  1. Identification of risks:                                        • The BOD is responsible for the overall governance of
                                                                        risks across the Group to ensure the ERM Committee
   • Each entity identifies and documents risks in their                maintains adequate management of controls.
      respective areas. Risks are classified as controllable
      (internal) or uncontrollable (external).                       • High priority risks are reviewed quarterly, significant
                                                                        risks biannually and medium priority risks annually.
   • Techniques such as brainstorming, process mapping,                 All risks are reviewed annually for relevance to the
      failure analysis and interviews are utilised in this              Group's structure and operating environment.
      process.
                                                                     • The ERM Committee reports a summary of all risks
   • Risks are updated and compiled into a consolidated                 and risk incidents to BOD quarterly for review.
      risk register annually.
                                                                  Metrics and Targets

2. Assessment and prioritisation of risks:                        At GCB, we track our climate-related performance,
                                                                  including but not limited to:

• Each risk is analysed by determining likelihood,                • Scope 1 and Scope 2 (tCO2e)
   impact and resultant gross risk rating.                        • Scope 3: Business travel and employee commuting

• Existing controls and their effectiveness are                          emissions (tCO2e)
   evaluated to determine residual likelihood, impact             • Energy consumption (GJ)
   and risk rating.                                               • Waste generated (MT)
                                                                  • Water used (ML)
• Risks are prioritised as significant, high, medium or
   low.                                                           All our carbon emissions data follow the methodologies
                                                                  in reference to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting
                                                                  and Reporting Standards. Our total emissions for the year
                                                                  amounted to 23,358 tCO2e for Scope 1 and 67,559 tCO2e
                                                                  for Scope 2.

                                                                  In our acknowledgement of the importance of effectively
                                                                  managing climate-related risks, we are currently working
                                                                  towards establishing relevant targets.

                                                                  READ
                                                                  MORE Performance Data Table, page 130
126 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                       GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

GRI CONTENT INDEX

Statement of use  Guan Chong Berhad has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period
GRI 1 used        of 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.

                  GRI 1: Foundation 2021

GRI STANDARD      DISCLOSURE                                                                               LOCATION
GRI 2:            THE ORGANISATION AND ITS REPORTING PRACTICES
General           2-1 Organizational details                                                            9-16 & 74-75
Disclosures 2021  2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting                            74-75
                  2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point                                               74-75
GRI 3:            2-4 Restatements of information                                                                 74-75
Material          2-5 External assurance                                                                          74-75
Topics 2021       ACTIVITIES AND WORKERS
                  2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships                                      9-16
                  2-7 Employees                                                                               112-117
                  2-8 Workers who are not employees                                                           112-117
                  GOVERNANCE
                  2-9 Governance structure and composition                                                        80-84
                  2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body                                138-150
                  2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
                  2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts                34-40
                  2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts                                          82-83
                  2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting                            82-83
                  2-15 Conflicts of interest                                                                      82-83
                  2-16 Communication of critical concerns                                                         80-84
                  2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body                                        85-92
                  2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body                               34-40
                  2-19 Remuneration policies1                                                                 148-149
                  2-20 Process to determine remuneration                                                      146-148
                  STRATEGIES, POLICIES AND PRACTICES                                                          146-148
                  2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
                  2-23 Policy commitments                                                                         76-78
                  2-24 Embedding policy commitments                                                               80-84
                  2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts                                                    80-84
                  2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns                                         80-84
                  2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations                                                       80-84
                  2-28 Membership associations                                                                    80-84
                  2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
                  3-1 Process to determine material topics                                                             75
                  3-2 List of material topics                                                                     85-86
                                                                                                                  87-92
                                                                                                                  87-92

Note:
1 Remuneration Policy is publicly available at: https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/corporate-governance.
                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 127

                                       SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
                                                  GRI CONTENT INDEX

GRI STANDARD       DISCLOSURE                                                                            LOCATION
                                                             ECONOMIC
GRI 201:                                                                                                      87-121
Economic           3-3 Management of material topics                                                            94-96
Performance 2016   201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed                                        94-96
                   201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
                   201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans                     225-226 &
                                                                                                                   234
GRI 205:           3-3 Management of material topics
Anti-corruption    205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption                                  87-121
2016               205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures                    97
                   205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken                                         97
GRI 206:           3-3 Management of material topics                                                                 97
Anti-competitive   206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices
Behaviour 2016                                                                                                87-121
                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL                                                97
GRI 302:           3-3 Management of material topics
Energy 2016        302-1 Energy consumption within the organization                                           87-121
                   302-3 Energy intensity                                                                   102-104
GRI 303:           3-3 Management of material topics                                                        102-104
Water and          303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
Effluents 2019     303-3 Water withdrawal                                                                     87-121
                   303-4 Water discharge                                                                    105-106
GRI 304:           3-3 Management of material topics                                                        105-106
Biodiversity 2016  304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity           105-106
GRI 305:           3-3 Management of material topics
Emissions 2016     305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions                                                       87-121
                   305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions                                              98-101
GRI 306:           305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions                                               87-121
Waste 2020         305-4 GHG emissions intensity                                                            102-104
                   3-3 Management of material topics                                                        102-104
GRI 308:           306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts                             102-104
Supplier           306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts                                    102-104
Environmental      306-3 Waste generated                                                                      87-121
Assessment 2016    306-4 Waste diverted from disposal                                                       107-109
                   306-5 Waste directed to disposal                                                         107-109
                   3-3 Management of material topics                                                        107-109
                   308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria                      107-109
                                                                                                            107-109
                                                                                                              87-121
                                                                                                            130-133
128 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
GRI CONTENT INDEX

GRI STANDARD         DISCLOSURE                                                                       LOCATION
                                                                  SOCIAL
GRI 401:                                                                                                   87-121
Employment 2016      3-3 Management of material topics                                                   112-117
                     401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover                                      112-117

                     401-3 Parental leave                                                                  87-121
                                                                                                         118-119
GRI 403:             3-3    Management of material topics                                                118-119
Occupational Health  403-1  Occupational health and safety management system                             118-119
and Safety 2018      403-2  Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation           118-119

                     403-3 Occupational health services                                                  118-119
                                                                                                         118-119
                     403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on                      118-119
                                occupational health and safety
                                                                                                         118-119
                     403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
                                                                                                         118-119
                     403-6 Promotion of worker health                                                      87-121

                     403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts           130-133
                                directly linked by business relationships                                112-117

                     403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management               130-133
                                system
                                                                                                           87-121
                     403-9 Work-related injuries                                                          34-40 &
                                                                                                         112-117
GRI 404:             3-3 Management of material topics                                                     87-121
Training and
Education 2016       404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee                                        97
                                                                                                           87-121
                     404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance              112-117
                                programs
                                                                                                           87-121
                     404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career              112-117
                                development reviews

GRI 405:             3-3 Management of material topics
Diversity and Equal  405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Opportunity 2016

GRI 406:             3-3 Management of material topics
Non-discrimination   406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
2016
                     3-3 Management of material topics
GRI 407:             407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association
Freedom of
Association                     and collective bargaining may be at risk
and Collective
Bargaining 2016      3-3 Management of material topics
                     408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor
GRI 408:
Child Labor 2016
                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 129

                                       SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
                                                  GRI CONTENT INDEX

GRI STANDARD       DISCLOSURE                                                                       LOCATION
                                                                SOCIAL
GRI 409:                                                                                                 87-121
Forced or          3-3 Management of material topics                                                   112-117
Compulsory Labor   409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or
2016                                                                                                     87-121
GRI 413:                      compulsory labor                                                         110-111
Local Communities
2016               3-3 Management of material topics                                                     87-121
                   413-1 Operation with local community engagement, impact assessment, and             130-133
GRI 414:
Supplier Social               development programs                                                       87-121
Assessment 2016    3-3 Management of material topics                                                   120-121
GRI 416:           414-1 New Suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Customer Health                                                                                        120-121
and Safety 2016    3-3 Management of material topics
                   416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service            120-121
Topic 13.10:
Food safety                   categories                                                               120-121
                   416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts
GRI 418:                                                                                                 87-121
Customer Privacy              of products and services                                                          97
2016               13.10.4 Percentage of production volume from sites certified to internationally

                              recognized food safety standards, and list these standards
                   13.10.5 Number of recalls issued for food safety reasons and the total volume

                              of products recalled
                   3-3 Management of material topics
                   418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy

                              and losses of customer data
130 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                                                   GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE

Indicator                                                                                                      Measurement Unit     2021           2022           2023
Economic Performance                                                                                            MYR
Economic value retained                                                                                         MYR                 - 138,000,000.00 95,000,000.00
                                                                                                                MYR                                                           *
Direct economic value generated
                                                                                                                                    - 4,518,000,000.050,991,000,000.00
Economic value distributed                                                                                                                                                    *
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of employees who have received training on anti-corruption by employee category                              - 4,380,000,000.050,896,000,000.00

       Senior Management                                                                                       Percentage           100.00         100.00         100.00
       Middle Management                                                                                       Percentage           100.00         100.00         100.00
       Assistant Manager                                                                                       Percentage           100.00         100.00         100.00
       Executive                                                                                               Percentage           100.00         100.00         100.00
       Non-Executive                                                                                           Percentage           100.00         100.00         100.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related risks                                     Percentage                          100.00         100.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken                                                 Number                       -
Anti-competitive Behavior                                                                                                                  0              0              0
Total number of incidents of anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices                      Number
Non-discrimination                                                                                                                         0              0              0
Total number of incidents of discrimination                                                                    Number
Bursa (Data privacy and security)                                                                                                          0              0              0
Bursa C8(a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer  Number
data                                                                                                                                        -              -             0
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers                                                          Percentage           -              -              27.00
Farmers trained in GAP                                                                                         Number
Households covered by CLMRS                                                                                    Number               -              7,816          18,424
Individuals participating in womenʼs empowerment projects                                                      Number
Cocoa sourcing area assessed for deforestation risk                                                            Hectare              -              6,351          10,403
New cocoa agroforestry systems established                                                                     Hectare
Multipurpose trees distributed on cocoa farms                                                                  Number               -              1,230          2,453
Farmers involved in our direct supply chain                                                                    Number
Bursa (Supply Chain (Environmental) / Supplier Environmental Assessment)                                                            -              31,309         73,245
Bursa S6(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
Bursa S6(b) Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts                                                                  -              4,057          6,822
Bursa (Supply Chain (Social) / Supplier Social Assessment)
Bursa S7(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria                                                    -              59,048         181,710
Bursa S7(b) Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts
Bursa (Energy management)                                                                                                           -              11,493         22,366
Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption
Total energy consumption                                                                                       Percentage           -              -              41.00
Energy consumption - Renewable                                                                                 Number
Energy consumption - Non-renewable                                                                                                  -              -              558
Energy Intensity of Products
                                                                                                               Percentage           -              -              41.00
                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                    -              -              558

                                                                                                               Megawatt                    15.58          16.34          16.99
                                                                                                               Gigajoules           882,309.00     935,914.00     928,729.00
                                                                                                               Gigajoules           118,159.00     112,537.00
                                                                                                               Gigajoules           764,150.00     823,377.00      66,140.00
                                                                                                               Gigajoules/Metric                                  862,589.00
                                                                                                               tonne                         2.96           3.08
                                                                                                                                                                           2.82

Bursa (Emissions management)                                                                                   Metric tonnes        -              25,121.00      23,358.00
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e                                                               Metric tonnes
                                                                                                               Metric tonnes
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e                                                                                    -              70,462.00      67,559.00
                                                                                                               tCO2-e
Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e (at least for the categories of business travel and employee  tCO2-e               -              1,854.00       2,286.00
commuting)                                                                                                     tCO2-e
                                                                                                               tCO2-e               -              77,106.00      73,450.00
Scope 2 emissions - Location-based                                                                             tCO2-e
                                                                                                               tCO2-e
Scope 2 emissions - Market-based                                                                               tCO2-e/Metric tonne  -              70,462.00      67,559.00

Scope 3 emissions - Employee Commute                                                                                                -              1,454.00       1,574.00

Scope 3 emissions - Business Travel                                                                                                 -              400.00         712.00

InTtoetranlaSl caospseur1a,n2ceand 3 EmissionsExternal assurance  No assurance  (*)Restated                                         -              97,437.00      93,203.00

Biogenic emissions                                                                                                                  -              7,982.00       4,315.00

Emission Intensity of Products                                                                                                      -              0.32           0.28

Bursa (Water)
Farmers involved in our direct supply chain                                                                                                                                                            Number                                         -              11,493             22,366

Bursa (Supply Chain (Environmental) / Supplier Environmental Assessment)

Bursa S6(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria                                                                                                                Percentage                                     -                            -    41.00

Bursa S6(b) Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts                                                                                                                        Integrated Annual ReportN2u0m2b3er SUSTAINABILITY ST- ATEMENT -2023 153581
Bursa (Supply Chain (Social) / Supplier Social Assessment)

Bursa S7(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria                                                                                                                       Percentage                                     -                            -    41.00
Bursa S7(b) Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SNuUmbSer TAINABILITY- STATE- MEN55T8

Bursa (Energy management)                                                                                                                                                                              PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE
Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption                                                                                                                                                                   Megawatt                                   15.58              16.34              16.99

Total energy consumption                                                                                                                                                                               Gigajoules                                 882,309.00 935,914.00 928,729.00

Energy consumption - Renewable                                                                                                                                                                         Gigajoules                                 118,159.00 112,537.00                 66,140.00

Energy consumption - Non-renewable                                                                                                                                                                     Gigajoules                                 764,150.00 823,377.00 862,589.00

Energy Intensity of Products                                                                                                                                                                            Gigajoules/Metric                         2.96               3.08               2.82
Indicator                                                                                                                                                                                              Mtoenanseurement Unit                      2021               2022               2023
Bursa (Emissions management)

Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e                                                                                                                                                       Metric tonnes                                  -              25,121.00          23,358.00

Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e                                                                                                                                                       Metric tonnes                                  -              70,462.00          67,559.00

Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e (at least for the categories of business travel and employee                                                                                          Metric tonnes                                  -              1,854.00           2,286.00
commuting)

Scope 2 emissions - Location-based                                                                                                                                                                     tCO2-e                                         -              77,106.00          73,450.00

Scope 2 emissions - Market-based                                                                                                                                                                       tCO2-e                                         -              70,462.00          67,559.00

Scope 3 emissions - Employee Commute                                                                                                                                                                   tCO2-e                                         -              1,454.00           1,574.00

Scope 3 emissions - Business Travel                                                                                                                                                                    tCO2-e                                         -              400.00             712.00

Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions                                                                                                                                                                       tCO2-e                                         -              97,437.00          93,203.00

Biogenic emissions                                                                                                                                                                                     tCO2-e                                         -              7,982.00           4,315.00

Emission Intensity of Products                                                                                                                                                                         tCO2-e/Metric tonne                            -              0.32               0.28

Bursa (Water)

Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water used                                                                                                                                                                 Megalitres                                 230.000000 237.000000 233.400000

Total volume of water withdrawn                                                                                                                                                                        Megalitres                                 1,204.300000 1,226.500000 1,147.100000

Water withdrawal - Malaysia                                                                                                                                                                            Megalitres                                 155.000000 166.000000 171.300000

Water withdrawal - Indonesia                                                                                                                                                                           Megalitres                                 89.000000 92.000000 97.400000

Water withdrawal - Germany                                                                                                                                                                             Megalitres                                 960.300000 968.500000 869.300000

Water withdrawal - US                                                                                                                                                                                  Megalitres                                     -                            -    9.100000

Water consumption - Malaysia                                                                                                                                                                           Megalitres                                 148.000000 154.000000 141.000000

IndiIWcnadatitocerartocor nsumption - Indonesia                                                                                                                                                        MMeeaMgseaualriestrumersenmteUnnt iUt nit  8220.022010020100  832.0020220002020    832.7002203000203
WaWteratceorncsounmsputmiopnti-onGe- rGmearnmyany                                                                                                                                                       MegMaeligtraelsitres                                                            0.000.000000000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.000.000000000 0.000.000000000

WaWteratceorncsounmsputmiopnti-onUS- US                                                                                                                                                                MegMaeligtraelsitres                       --                 - - 8.7080.700000000

BurBsuar(sEaff(lEufeflnute) nt)

BuIrnBstauerrSsna8a(lSaa8)s(Tsaou)trTaalonvtcaoelluvmoleumofewoaf twerat(eeErff(xlueteeffrnlunt)eanldatis)scdshiusarcrahgnaecreogveeorvtehretrheeproerptinoNgrtoipnaegsrpisoeudrriaondce  (*)Restated  MegMaeligtraelsitres                       9749.37040.300000000 9899.58090.500000000 9139.71030.700000000
WaWteratdeisr cdhisacrhgaerdg-edM-alMayaslaiaysia                                                                                                                                                      MegMaeligtraelsitres                          7.0070.000000000 12.01020.000000000 30.300.300000000

WaWteratdeisr cdhisacrhgaerdg-edIn-doInndeosniaesia                                                                                                                                                    MegMaeligtraelsitres                       7.0070.000000000 9.0090.000000000 13.71030.700000000

WaWteratdeisr cdhisacrhgaerdg-edGe- rGmearnmyany                                                                                                                                                       MegMaeligtraelsitres                       9609.3600.300000000 9689.56080.500000000 8698.36090.300000000

WaWteratdeisr cdhisacrhgaerdg-edUS- US                                                                                                                                                                 MegMaeligtraelsitres                       --                 - - 0.400.400000000

BurBsuar(sWa a(Wstaesmteamnaagneamgemnte) nt)

BurBsaurCsa10C(1a0) (Tao)tTalowtaal swteasgtengeernaeterdated                                                                                                                                          MetMricettroicnntoensnes                   18,81382,8.0302.00 19,81594,8.0504.00 20,9204,9.004.00

BurBsaurCsa10C(1a0)((ia) )T(io)tTalowtaal swteasdtievedritveedrtferdomfrodmispdoisspaol sal                                                                                                            MetMricettroicnntoensnes                   12,31529,3.0509.00 13,91835,9.0805.00 17,01970,0.090.00

BurBsaurCsa10C(1a0)((iai))T(iio)tTalowtaal swteasdtieredcitredctteoddtiospdoisspaol sal                                                                                                                MetMricettroicnntoensnes                   6,4866,4.0806.00 5,8659,8.0609.00 3,8134,8.0104.00

BurBsuar(sCao(mCommumniutyn/iStyo/cSioetcyie) ty)

BurBsaurCsa2(Ca2) (Tao)tTaloataml oaumnotuinvt einsvtedstiendthinetchoemcmomunmituynwityhewrheetrheetthaergtaertgbeetnbeefinceiafircieiasriaerseaerxeterxntearlntoalthtoetlhisetelidstiesdsuisesruer   MYMRYR                                     --                 - - 1321,23821,2.0801.00

BurBsaurCsa2(Cb2) (Tbo)tTalontaulmnbuemrboefrboefnbeefinceiafircieiasrioefsthoef tihneveinsvtmesetnmteintcionmcmomunmituiensities                                                                      NumNbuemrber                               --                 --                 180180

BurBsuar(sDaiv(Derivseitrys)ity)

BurBsaurCsa3(Ca3) (Pae) rPcenrctaegnetaogfeeomf pelmoypeloeysebeys gbeyngdeenrdaenrdaangdeagreogurpo,ufopr, feoarcehaecmh pelmoypeloeyceaetecgaotergyory

AgeAGgeroGurpobuyp EbymEplmoypeloeyCeeatCegaotergyory

NonN-oEnx-eEcxueticvuetiUvendUenrd3e0r 30                                                                                                                                                              PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 53.0503.00

NonN-oEnx-eEcxueticvuetiBveetBweetewne3e0n-350-50                                                                                                                                                      PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 39.0309.00

NonN-oEnx-eEcxueticvuetiAveboAvbeo5v0e 50                                                                                                                                                              PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 8.008.00

SenSioernMioranMaagneamgenmteUnnt dUenrd3e0r 30                                                                                                                                                        PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 0.00.00

SenSioernMioranMaagneamgenmteBnet tBweetewne3e0n-350-50                                                                                                                                                PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 10.010.00

SenSioernMioranMaagneamgenmteAnbt oAvbeo5v0e 50                                                                                                                                                        PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 90.090.00

MidMdlieddMleanMaagneamgenmteUnnt dUenrd3e0r 30                                                                                                                                                        PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 6.006.00

MidMdlieddMleanMaagneamgenmteBnet tBweetewne3e0n-350-50                                                                                                                                                PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 66.0606.00

MidMdlieddMleanMaagneamgenmteAnbt oAvbeo5v0e 50                                                                                                                                                        PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 28.0208.00

AssAisstsainstaMnat nMaagneargUenr dUenrd3e0r 30                                                                                                                                                       PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 12.0102.00

AssAisstsainstaMnat nMaagneargBeer tBweetewne3e0n-350-50                                                                                                                                               PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 78.0708.00

AssAisstsainstaMnat nMaagneargAebr oAvbeo5v0e 50                                                                                                                                                       PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 10.010.00

InteErnxaeElcxauesticsvuuetriaUvnencdUeenrd3e0r 30   External assurance                      No assurance                                                                                 (*)Restated  PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 49.0409.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerPcenrctaegnetage
ExeEcxueticvuetiBveetBweetewne3e0n-350-50                                                                                                                                                                                                         --                 --                 44.0404.00

ExeEcxueticvuetiAveboAvbeo5v0e 50                                                                                                                                                                      PerPcenrctaegnetage                        --                 --                 7.007.00

GenGdeenrdGeroGurpobuyp EbymEplmoypeloeyCeeatCegaotergyory
  Water consumption - US                                                                                                       Megalitres          -          -          8.700000
  Bursa (Effluent)
  Bursa S8(a) Total volume of water (effluent) discharge over the reporting period                                             Megalitres          974.300000 989.500000 913.700000
  Water discharged - Malaysia                                                                                                  Megalitres
                                                                                                                               Megalitres          7.000000   12.000000  30.300000
1W32ater disSchUaSrgTedA-INIndAoBneIsLiaITY STATEMENT 2023                                                                     Megalitres
                                                                                                                               Megalitres          7.0000G00UAN C9.H00O00N0G0 BER1H3.7A0D0000
  Water discharged - Germany
                                                                                                                               Metric tonnes       960.300000 968.500000 869.300000
SWUaterSdisTchAargIedN- UAS BILITY STATEMENT                                                                                   Metric tonnes
  Bursa (Waste management)                                                                                                     Metric tonnes       -          -          0.400000

PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Bursa C10(a) Total waste generated                                                                      MYR                 18,832.00  19,854.00  20,904.00
                                                                                                                           MeaNsuumrebmeernt Unit  12,359.00  13,985.00  17,090.00
  Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste diverted from disposal
  Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste directed to disposal                                                                                                 6,486.00   5,869.00   3,814.00
  Bursa (Community/Society)
  Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested in the community where the target beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer                                 -           -      132,281.00
  BInudriscaatCor2(b) Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in communities                                                               202- 1     202-2              2012830
  Bursa (Diversity)
  Bursa C3(a) Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for each employee category                                  Percentage                      -          -   53.00
                                                                                                                           Percentage                      -          -   39.00
       Age Group by Employee Category                                                                                      Percentage                      -          -
         Non-Executive Under 30                                                                                            Percentage                      -          -     8.00
         Non-Executive Between 30-50                                                                                       Percentage                      -          -     0.00
         Non-Executive Above 50                                                                                            Percentage                      -          -   10.00
         Senior Management Under 30                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   90.00
         Senior Management Between 30-50                                                                                   Percentage                      -          -     6.00
         Senior Management Above 50                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   66.00
         Middle Management Under 30                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   28.00
         Middle Management Between 30-50                                                                                   Percentage                      -          -   12.00
         Middle Management Above 50                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   78.00
         Assistant Manager Under 30                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   10.00
         Assistant Manager Between 30-50                                                                                   Percentage                      -          -   49.00
         Assistant Manager Above 50                                                                                        Percentage                      -          -   44.00
         Executive Under 30                                                                                                                                                 7.00
         Executive Between 30-50                                                                                           Percentage                      -          -
         Executive Above 50                                                                                                Percentage                      -          -   87.00
                                                                                                                           Percentage                      -          -   13.00
       Gender Group by Employee Category                                                                                   Percentage                      -          -   70.00
         Non-Executive Male                                                                                                Percentage                      -          -   30.00
         Non-Executive Female                                                                                              Percentage                      -          -   60.00
         Senior Management Male                                                                                            Percentage                      -          -   40.00
         Senior Management Female                                                                                          Percentage                      -          -   51.00
         Middle Management Male                                                                                            Percentage                      -          -   49.00
         Middle Management Female                                                                                          Percentage                      -          -   53.00
         Assistant Manager Male                                                                                                                                           47.00
         Assistant Manager Female                                                                                          Percentage               67.00      57.00
         Executive Male                                                                                                    Percentage               33.00      43.00      57.00
         Executive Female                                                                                                  Percentage                                     43.00
                                                                                                                           Percentage                 0.00       0.00
  Bursa C3(b) Percentage of directors by gender and age group                                                              Percentage                 0.00       0.00       0.00
         Male                                                                                                              Percentage              100.00     100.00        0.00
         Female                                                                                                            Percentage                          77.00     100.00
         Under 30                                                                                                          Percentage                      -   23.00      77.00
         Between 30-50                                                                                                     Percentage                      -   94.00      23.00
         Above 50                                                                                                          Percentage                      -     6.00     94.00
                                                                                                                           Percentage                      -     0.00       6.00
  Permanent employees - Male                                                                                               Percentage                      -  100.00        0.00
  Permanent employees - Female                                                                                             Percentage                      -   80.00     100.00
  Temporary employees - Male                                                                                               Percentage                      -   20.00      80.00
  Temporary employees - Female                                                                                             Percentage                      -     0.00     20.00
  Part time employees - Male                                                                                               Number                          -     0.00       0.00
  Part time employees - Female                                                                                             Number                          -                0.00
  Full-time employees - Male                                                                                                                               -          -
  Full-time employees - Female                                                                                                                             -          -         2
  Non-guaranteed hours employees - Male                                                                                                                                         1
  Non-guaranteed hours employees - Female
  New hires - Senior Management
  New hires - Middle Management

IInntteerrnnaall aassssuurraannccee  EExxtteerrnnaall aassssuurraannccee  NNoo aassssuurraannccee  ((**))RReessttaatteedd
                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 133

                                                                          SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
                                                                        PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE

Indicator                                                                                                                   Measurement     2021     2022           2023
                                                                                                                            Unit
New hires - Assistant Manager                                                                                                Number              -        -              2
New hires - Executive                                                                                                        Number              -        -            66
New hires - Non-Executive                                                                                                    Number              -        -          377
New hires - Male                                                                                                             Number              -        -          364
New hires - Female                                                                                                           Number              -        -            84
New hires - Under 30                                                                                                         Number              -        -          334
New hires - Between 30-50                                                                                                    Number              -        -          102
New hires - Above 50                                                                                                         Number              -        -            12
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training by employee category                                                                     Hours          -        -              100
                                                                                                                             Hours
       Senior Management                                                                                                     Hours          -        -              233
       Middle Management                                                                                                     Hours
       Assistant Manager                                                                                                     Hours          -        -              423
       Executive                                                                                                             Percentage
       Non-Executive                                                                                                                        -        -              1,221
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary staff                                                  Number
Bursa C6(c) Total number of employee turnover by employee category                                                           Number         -        -              9,669
       Senior Management                                                                                                     Number
       Middle Management                                                                                                     Number         -        18.00          18.00
       Assistant Manager                                                                                                     Number
       Executive                                                                                                             Number         -        -              4
       Non-Executive                                                                                                         Percentage
Bursa C6(d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning human rights violations                                            Percentage     -        -              2
Total workers - Male                                                                                                         Number
Total workers - Female                                                                                                       Number         -        -              3
Employee turnover - Male                                                                                                     Number
Employee turnover - Female                                                                                                   Number         -        -              47
Employee turnover - Under 30                                                                                                 Number
Employee turnover - Between 30-50                                                                                            Percentage     -        -              284
Employee turnover - Above 50
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews                                         Number         -        -              0
Bursa (Health and safety)                                                                                                    Rate
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-related fatalities                                                                                Number         -        100.00         99.00
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate ("LTIR")                                                                                 Number
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees trained on health and safety standards                                                       Number         -        0.00           1.00
Fatalities as a result of work-related ill health                                                                            Number
Fatalities as a result of work-related injury                                                                                Number         -        301            278
Work-related injuries                                                                                                        Hours
Lost time injuries                                                                                                                          -        42             62
Total hours worked                                                                                                           Percentage
Bursa (Customer Health & Safety / Product Responsibility)                                                                                   -        242            220
Bursa S3(a) Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for    Number
improvement                                                                                                                                 -        92             96
Bursa S3(b) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health & safety   Number
impacts of products and services within the reporting period                                                                 Metric tonnes  -        9              24
Bursa S3(c) Number of recalls issued and total units recalled for health and safety reasons
Total volume of products recalled                                                                                                           -        100.00         100.00

                                                                                                                                                 0              0              0
                                                                                                                                                  -              -         1.90
                                                                                                                                            1,241         1,275          1,444
                                                                                                                                                 0              0
                                                                                                                                                 0              0              0
                                                                                                                                                30             21              0
                                                                                                                                                  -              -            44
                                                                                                                                                  -  2,958,644                30
                                                                                                                                                                    3,203,107

                                                                                                                                            -        100.00         100.00

                                                                                                                                            -        0              0

                                                                                                                                            -        0              0

                                                                                                                                            -        0.00           0.00

Note:
* The performance data table's formatting and remarks adhere strictly to Bursa Malaysia's ESG Reporting Platform standards and cannot be edited.

Internal assurance  External assurance  No assurance  (*)Restated
134 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023                                                     GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

MATERIAL MATTERS (APPENDIX)

In our efforts to generate value for the organisation and our stakeholders, it is vital that we understand and respond to
the impact of sustainability matters on our business, as well as the impact of our business practices on our stakeholders
and the environment.

Our materiality assessments help us in evaluating our key sustainability risks and opportunities to ensure that they are
being managed effectively. A full-scale materiality assessment is conducted once every 3 years to engage with both our
internal and external stakeholders, allowing us to identify issues that are critical to them and our business. Subsequently,
we are able to assess and realign our strategies accordingly.

In FY2022, we undertook a comprehensive materiality assessment that comprised 4 phases: Identification, Evaluation,
Prioritisation and Validation.

GCB's Materiality Assessment Process

 PHASE 1                     PHASE 2                      PHASE 3                     PHASE 4
Identification               Evaluation                  Prioritisation               Validation

• Identified key             • Leveraged the             • Engaged our                • The SSC reviewed the
   stakeholders of GCB,         outcomes of general         stakeholders through a       generated preliminary
   comprising internal          external stakeholder        materiality survey.          materiality matrix to
   (i.e., employees) and        engagements                                              align it with the Group’s
   external entities (i.e.,     across the Group,        • Conducted a workshop          overall strategy.
   customers, shareholders      facilitated through         with our internal
   & investors, suppliers       diverse platforms,          stakeholders that was     • The SSC presented
   & contractors,               to understand their         attended by Heads            the refined materiality
   governments,                 interests and concerns.     of Departments and           matrix to the Board for
   regulators & NGOs,                                       representatives of all       endorsement.
   local communities, and    • Formulated a                 functions across the
   the media).                  preliminary list of         Group.                    • The Board reviews the
                                sustainability matters                                   materiality assessment
• Established an                as a result of this      • Evaluated and                 process undertaken by
   inventory of material        process.                    ranked the material          the management on a
   matters by referring                                     matters identified           yearly basis to identify
   to sustainability                                        through a stakeholder        any gaps to improve
   guidelines, frameworks                                   survey based on              future assessments.
   and standards                                            2 dimensions: the
   (including Bursa                                         severity and likelihood
   Securities SR Guide                                      of ESG impacts on
   and the GRI Standards),                                  our business, and
   analysing current                                        the significance of
   sustainability trends                                    these attributes by
   based on our operating                                   stakeholders.
   environment, and
   conducting peer                                       • Developed a
   benchmarking.                                            preliminary materiality
                                                            matrix following the
                                                            prioritisation exercise.

READ
MORE Stakeholder Engagement, page 85
                                                                                  Integrated Annual Report 2023 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023 135

                                                                                                      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
                                                                                             MATERIAL MATTERS (APPENDIX)

Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions  High                                 7                 1                       Economic
                                                                                           10
                                                                                                        49                        1. Economic Performance
                                                                               8  3                  20                           2. Market Presence
                                                                              16      19                                          3. Procurement Practices
                                                                 12                                               6               4. Anti-corruption
                                                                                              11                                  5. Anti-competitive Behaviour
                                                                         13
                                                                                                                                   Environmental
                                                                     17 14
                                                                                                                                  6. Energy
                                                    Medium                        18                                              7. Water & Effluents
                                                                                                                                  8. Biodiversity
                                                                 15                   5           2                               9. Emissions
                                                                                                                                  10. Waste
                                                    Low
                                                                                                                                   Social
                                                            Low  Medium                              High
                                                                                                                                  11. Employment
                                                                                                                                  12. Occupational Health & Safety
                                                                                                                                  13. Training & Education
                                                                                                                                  14. Non-discrimination
                                                                                                                                  15. Freedom of Association &

                                                                                                                                        Collective Bargaining
                                                                                                                                  16. Child Labour
                                                                                                                                  17. Forced or Compulsory Labour
                                                                                                                                  18. Local Communities
                                                                                                                                  19. Customer Health & Safety
                                                                                                                                  20. Customer Privacy

                                                            Significance of Company’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts

Material Matters                                                 Description
Economic Performance                                             Generating and distributing economic value to our stakeholders.
Market Presence
Procurement Practices                                            Contributing to economic development in local communities where we operate.

Anti-corruption                                                  Promoting responsible and sustainable procurement practices, including
Anti-competitive Behaviour                                       assessing the environmental and social impacts of our suppliers according to
                                                                 established criteria.

                                                                 Advocating ethical business practices and transparency by avoiding all forms of
                                                                 corruption, such as bribery.

                                                                 Ensuring fair business practices and preventing market position abuse.
136 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 2023  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
MATERIAL MATTERS (APPENDIX)

Material Matters              Description
Energy
Water & Effluents             Maintaining energy efficiency throughout our operations and adopting the use
Biodiversity                  of renewable energy.
Emissions
Waste                         Managing efficient water use and conserving water resources.
Employment
Occupational Health & Safety  Assessing the impacts of our operations on biodiversity.

Training & Education          Monitoring the environmental impacts of carbon emission from the Group's
Non-discrimination            operations.

Freedom of Association &      Evaluating wate management methods throughout our operation and
Collective Bargaining         promoting better consumption practices.
Child Labour
Forced or Compulsory Labour   Investing in talent recruitment, retention and workforce productivity
Local Communities             enhancement.
Customer Health & Safety
Customer Privacy              Creating a healthy, safe and conducive working environment for employees and
                              contractors, particularly by minimising any health and safety related risks that
                              could arise.

                              Empowering and supporting employees in their personal and professional
                              development.

                              Ensuring fair and dignified treatment for all employees, without any form of
                              discrimination based on race, colour, sex, religion, age, disability and gender,
                              among others.

                              Upholding the rights of employers and workers to form, join and run their own
                              organisations.

                              Implementing due diligence to prevent child labour in our operations and
                              supply chain.

                              Taking proactive measures to ensure instances of forced or compulsory labour
                              do not take place in our operations and supply chain.

                              Supporting engagement programmes that create positive social impacts.

                              Improving customer experiences through the quality of our products.

                              Safeguarding the Group from cyberthreats, protecting customers’ sensitive
                              information and preventing data breaches.
                                                                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 137

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE &
COMPLIANCE

138 Corporate Governance Overview Statement
151 Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
157 Audit Committee Report
159 Risk Management Committee Report
161 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
138 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
STATEMENT

The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) recognises the importance of good corporate governance in
ensuring that the interest of the Company, shareholders and other stakeholders are protected. The Board is committed
to the establishment and implementation of a proper framework for governance and controls that are consistent with
the principles recommended in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) and other applicable laws,
regulations, directives and guidelines.

This corporate governance overview statement (“Statement”) sets out the adoption and practices of the principles as set
out in the MCCG and the relevant chapters of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on corporate governance.

The manner in and the extent in which the corporate governance framework is applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2023 is summarised as follows:

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

I. Board Responsibilities

       Principal Responsibilities of the Board of Directors

       The Board directs the risk assessment, strategic planning, resource allocation, succession planning and financial
       and operational management of the Company and each of its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”
       or “GCB Group”) to ensure that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met. The
       Board provides the leadership necessary to enable the Group’s business objectives to be met within the framework
       of internal controls described in this Statement.

       The Board, together with the management, takes responsibility for the governance of sustainability in the Group in
       accordance to Practices 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 in the MCCG. The Board oversees the Sustainability Steering Committee
       (“SSC”), which in turns governs the Sustainability Department (“SD”). The SD collaborates with the Committee
       and Working Group (“CWG”) in implementing sustainability strategies across the Group’s day-to-day operations.
       The Board takes into account sustainability considerations when developing and implementing company strategies,
       business plans, major plans of action and risk management. The Board ensures that it constantly stays abreast
       with sustainability issues relevant to the company and its business and that sustainability initiatives undertaken
       by the Group are effectively communicated to stakeholders. In preparing for the Sustainability Reporting, the SD
       performs materiality assessment every three (3) years, which is reviewed by the SSC and endorsed by the Board.
       Sustainability Reporting is reviewed by the SSC and reported to the Board.

       As set out in the MCCG’s Practice 1.2, the Board is led by a Chairman, who is responsible for:
       - Representing the Board to shareholders and ensuring effective communication with shareholders;
       - Ensuring effective operation of the Board and its committees in conformity with the highest standards of

               corporate governance;
       - Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision-

               making;
       - Ensuring that all Board committees are properly established, composed and operated;
       - Ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new directors and updates for all directors as and when

               necessary;
       - Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in the development of strategy and, more broadly, to support and advise

               the Chief Executive Officer; and
       - Establishing a harmonious and open relationship with the Chief Executive Officer.

       The Board is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, who provide sound
       governance advice, ensure adherence to rules and procedures and advocate for the adoption of corporate governance
       best practices, in compliance to the MCCG’s Practice 1.5.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 139

                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)

       To assist in the discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has established four (4) Board Committees, namely the
       Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Risk Management Committee,
       to which it has delegated certain responsibilities. The Board Committees have their roles and functions, written terms
       of reference, operating procedures and authority to examine specific issues within their respective terms of reference
       as approved by the Board and report to the Board with their recommendations. All deliberations and decisions
       taken by the Board Committees are documented and approved by the respective Chairman of the Board Committees
       prior to submission as agenda items for deliberation at the meeting of the Board. The ultimate responsibility for
       decision making, however, still lies with the Board. The Board reviews the Board Committees’ authority and terms of
       reference from time to time to ensure their relevance.

       The Board is guided by the Board Charter, which clearly identifies the respective roles and responsibilities of the
       board, board committees, individual directors and management, and issues and decisions reserved for the Board
       in compliance to the MCCG’s Practice 2.1. The Board has established the Business Ethics Policy & Code of Conduct
       and Whistleblower Procedure that aim to promote good business conduct and maintain a healthy corporate culture
       which engenders integrity, transparency and fairness in compliance to Practices 3.1 and 3.2 in the MCCG. Details of
       the Board Charter, Code of Ethics & Conduct and Whistleblower Procedure can be found on the Company’s website
       at www.gcbcocoa.com.

       Clear roles and responsibilities

       The Board has a collective responsibility for the management of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors are
       responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board and providing objective
       challenges to Management.

       The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not engage in
       any business dealing or other relationship with the Group to ensure that they are capable of exercising judgment
       objectively and act in the best interest of the Group, its stakeholders and shareholders, including minority
       shareholders. The day-to-day business operations of the Group are led by the Chief Executive Officer. The positions
       of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals in accordance to the MCCG’s Practice
       1.3. To enhance accountability, the Board has specific functions reserved for the Board and those delegated to the
       Management. There is a schedule of key matters reserved to the Board for its deliberation and decision to ensure the
       direction and control of the Group are in its hands.

       Key matters reserved to the Board for decision comprise the following:

       - Acquisition and disposal or closure of a business;
       - Declaration of dividends and approval of financial statements, including accounting policies of the Group;
       - Establishment of new businesses;
       - Annual strategic plan;
       - Capital investment and disposal of tangible assets from existing business to third party;
       - Increase or reduction by a subsidiary of its issued capital;
       - Financing on the Group’s activities;
       - Any corporate restructuring not covered by the above-mentioned paragraphs;
       - The change of name of any company in the Group and establishment of any new company;
       - Separate and consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and public statements

               which reflect significant issues of the Group’s policy or strategy;
       - Strategy, business plans and annual budgets of the Company and its subsidiaries and of any subsequent material

               changes in strategic direction or material deviations in business plans by the Company and its subsidiaries;
       - Significant changes in accounting policies and practices of the Company and its subsidiaries;
140 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE          GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)

       Clear roles and responsibilities (Cont’d)

       - Material acquisitions and disposal of assets not in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its
               subsidiaries;

       - Change relating to the capital structure, including but not limited to, reduction of capital, share and other
               securities issues (except under employee share option schemes) and share buy-backs (including the use of
               treasury shares) (including the terms and conditions of such changes in capital structure) of the Company and
               its subsidiaries;

       - Raise or increase borrowing facilities involving material amounts of the Company and its subsidiaries;
       - Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries, following

               recommendations from the Nomination Committee;
       - Any delegation of authorities to Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors of the Company and its

               subsidiaries;
       - Risk management policies of the Company and its subsidiaries;
       - Appointment and removal of the Company Secretary of the Company and its subsidiaries;
       - Establishment of Board Committees of the Company and its subsidiaries (to the extent applicable), their

               membership, delegated duties and authorities and the terms of reference; and
       - Remunerations payable in relation to the contract of employment of the Director of the Company and its

               subsidiaries and member of Key Senior Management of the Group.

       Board Meetings and Supply of Information

       A total of five (5) Board Meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. Board meetings are held
       separately from Board Committee Meetings. The details of attendance of each Board Member are as follows:

Name of Directors                              Attendance

Ang Nyee Nyee                                        5/5
Tay Hoe Lian                                         5/5
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick                           5/5
Hia Cheng                                            5/5
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir                            4/5
Ng Kim Hian (Appointed on 27 February 2023)          4/4
Tan Pui Suang (Appointed on 27 February 2023)        4/4
Tan Ah Lai (Resigned w.e.f. 5 April 2023)            2/2

The Company Secretaries, under the direction of the Chairman, ensure a balanced flow of information is disseminated
so that the Board and the Board Committees receive timely and up-to-date information for an effective discharge
of the Board’s responsibilities and for decisions to be made on an informed basis. The Board firmly believes that
effective deliberation and its decision making process are highly dependent on the quality of information furnished
by the management.

Where any direction or decisions are required expeditiously or urgently for the Board between the regular meetings,
special meetings of the Board are convened by the Company Secretaries, after consultation with the Chairman. The
agenda for the meeting of the Board is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretaries and the
Chief Executive Officer.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 141

                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)

       Board Meetings and Supply of Information (Cont’d)

       Decisions of the Board are made unanimously or by consensus. Where appropriate, decisions may be taken by way
       of Directors’ Circular Resolutions between scheduled and special meetings.

       The Board Meeting’s proceedings follow Practice 1.6 as set out in the MCCG. A formal and structured agenda,
       together with a set of Board and Board Committees papers, are forwarded to all Directors at least seven (7) days
       prior to the Board and Board Committees meetings, to enable the Board to make decisions and for Directors to be
       prepared to deal with matters arising from such meetings. The Board has a regular schedule of matters which are
       typically on the agenda and reviewed during the course of the year, namely the presentation of quarterly reports;
       the quarterly unaudited consolidated results; recommendations of the various Board Committees; announcements
       to Bursa Securities; the Company’s audited financial statements; the Company’s annual report which includes the
       Sustainability Statement, this Statement, Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control, Audit Committee
       Report, Risk Management Report and Statement of Directors’ responsibilities. Presentations to the Board and the
       Board Committees are prepared and delivered in a manner that ensures a clear and adequate understanding of
       the subject matter. In addition, reading materials on the subject matter are prepared and circulated prior to each
       meeting to assist Directors in having an understanding of the subject matter. Members of the management team
       and external advisors are invited, as and when required, to attend Board and Board Committees meetings to provide
       additional insights and professional views, advice and explanations on specific items on the meeting agenda. All
       pertinent issues discussed at Board meetings in arriving at the decisions and conclusions are properly recorded by
       the Company Secretaries by way of minutes of meetings and circulated to Board of Directors accordingly.

       It is the policy of the Company for Directors to devote sufficient time and efforts to carry out their responsibilities.
       The Board obtains this commitment from Directors at the time of their appointment. Furthermore, in ensuring time
       commitment of Directors, meeting dates are made known to the Directors prior to the beginning of a new financial
       year. Directors are also required to notify the Board before accepting any new directorship.

II. Board Composition

       The Composition of the Board

       The Board, through the Nomination Committee, ensures that the composition of the Board is refreshed periodically.
       The tenure of each Director is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and annual re-election of a Director is
       contingent on satisfactory evaluation of the Director’s performance and contribution to the Board, in accordance to
       Practice 5.1 as set out in the MCCG.

       The Board consists of seven (7) members, comprising three (3) Executive Directors including the Managing Director/
       CEO and four (4) Independent Non-Executive Directors. Presently, three (3) out of seven (7) members of the Board
       are women Directors, indicating 43% female representation on the Board. The Board members possess an effective
       mix of industry-specific knowledge and broad business, financial, regulatory and technical experience. Furthermore,
       there is effective check and balance on the Board, with 57% of the Board members being Independent Non-Executive
       Directors. Based on the independence assessment conducted by the Board, the Board believes that the existing
       Independent Directors are able to continue bringing in their independent perspectives and judgement during the
       Board and Board Committee’s proceedings. As a large company, the Group currently complies with Practice 5.2 in
       the MCCG since at least half of the Board comprises Independent Directors.

       A brief description of the background of each Director is presented in the Directors’ Profile on pages 34 to 37 of this
       Annual Report.
142 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. Board Composition (Cont’d)

       Independence of the Board

       The Independent Directors provide the necessary independent perspective and rigour in the formulation of strategies,
       deliberation of issues and implementation of major undertakings to ensure that the interest of not only the Group, but
       also stakeholders and the public in general are represented. The Board, through the Nomination Committee, reviewed
       and was satisfied that all such Directors had satisfied the criteria for an Independent Director as prescribed in the
       Listing Requirements and Practice Note 13 of Bursa Securities. This mixture of experience and expertise is deemed
       necessary in light of the increasingly challenging economic and operating environment in which the Group operates.

       The MCCG’s Practice 5.3 provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on the tenure of an Independent
       Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve the Board upon reaching the nine (9) years limit
       subject to the Independent Director’s re-designation as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. In the event the
       Board intends to retain the Director as Independent Director after the latter has served a cumulative term of nine
       (9) years, the Board must justify the decision and seek shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process. In
       justifying the decision, the Nomination Committee is entrusted to assess the candidate’s suitability to continue as an
       Independent Non-Executive Director based on the criteria and definition of an Independent Director as set out under
       Paragraph 1.01 of Listing Requirements on independence and recommend to the Board for its consideration. The
       Board does not have any Independent Directors serving for more than nine (9) years.

       Nomination Committee

       The Nomination Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the identification
       of the desired mix of expertise, competencies and experiences for an effective Board and the assessment of the
       performance of the members of the Board. As and when the need arises, the Nomination Committee shall also
       identify and recommend candidates with the necessary qualities to strengthen the Board.

       The Nomination Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Tan Pui Suang, and
       comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Nomination Committee operates under its terms
       of reference, which has been approved by the Board.

       Practices 5.6 and 5.7 of the MCCG require the Committee to consider independent sources and recommendations
       from existing board members, management and major shareholders when identifying candidates for appointment of
       directors. The Committee also has the responsibility to ensure that shareholders have the information they require to
       make an informed decision on the appointment and reappointment of the Directors. For the two (2) newly appointed
       Independent Directors during the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the Committee has not utilised external
       independent sources to identify the new Independent Directors because it was satisfied that they were the suitable
       candidates after assessment of their background, professional qualification, knowledge, integrity and competencies,
       independence, as well as fulfilment of criteria set out in the Fit and Proper Policy.

       On appointment of new Directors, the Management would facilitate the Directors’ induction by providing the Directors
       with relevant information about the Group and encouraging them to visit the sites of the Group’s operating units
       and meet with key senior executives. The Nomination Committee will also ensure that orientation programmes are
       provided for new members of the Board and is also tasked to review the Directors’ continuing education programmes.

       In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, all Directors who are appointed by the Board are subject to election
       by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The Constitution also provides that at least one
       third (1/3) of the remaining Directors be subject to re-election by rotation at each Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
       provided always that all Directors shall retire from office at least once every three (3) years but shall be eligible for
       re-election.
                Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 143

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. Board Composition (Cont’d)

       Nomination Committee (Cont’d)

       The Nomination Committee has access to any form of independent professional advice, information and the advice
       and services of the Company Secretaries, if and when required, in carrying out its functions. Directors seeking re-
       election and re-appointment abstain from all deliberations regarding his/her re-election and re-appointment to
       the Board and/or Board Committees. The Nomination Committee meets at least once in a financial year or more
       frequently if needed.

       The Nomination Committee had three (3) meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2023. The attendance
       details of each Board Member are as follows:

Name of Directors                             Attendance

Tan Pui Suang (Appointed on 1 December 2023)        0/0
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir                           2/3
Ng Kim Hian (Appointed on 5 April 2023)             1/1
Tan Ah Lai (Ceased on 5 April 2023)                 2/2
Ang Nyee Nyee (Ceased on 1 December 2023)           3/3

The activities carried out by the Nomination Committee during the financial year under review were as follows:

• Assessed and reviewed the boardroom diversity in respect of the desired mix of skills, competencies and
       experience of the Board, including the core competencies which non-executive directors should bring to the
       Board as well as the gender diversity policy as encouraged by Bursa Securities and Practices 5.9 of the MCCG;

• Ensured that the appointment of the Board and senior management is based on objective criteria, merit and
       with due regard for diversity in skills, experience, age, cultural background and gender in accordance to Practice
       5.5 of the MCCG;

• Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the Board, the Board Committees and individual directors, and
       made recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments to the structure, size and composition
       that are deemed necessary in accordance to Practice 6.1 of the MCCG;

• Developed the Board action plan for improvement on areas identified in the Boards effectiveness evaluation,
       where application;

• Reviewed the Fit and Proper Policy;
• Reviewed the Succession Planning Policy and Procedure; and
• Reviewed the Directors’ continuing education programmes.
144 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. Board Composition (Cont’d)

       Directors’ Training

       Under the Listing Requirements, the Nomination Committee has assumed the onus of determining or overseeing the
       training needs of the Directors. All the Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme.

       During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, all Directors have attended relevant courses and training
       programmes to enhance their knowledge to effectively discharge their duties and obligations.

       The courses and training programmes attended by the Directors are as follows:

Name of Director            Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Ang Nyee Nyee               Statelessness and Birth Certificate
Tay Hoe Lian
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick  Final Climate Governance - Board Oversight of Climate Risks and Opportunities
Hia Cheng                   Mastering 3 Kingdoms Leadership & Strategies

Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir   Driving Customer Acquisition with Digital Marketing for Local Businesses

                            Beat the Odds in Business and Life

                            Winning the Sales Game with AI: The Future of Sales and Customer Relationships
                            Cyber Security for Finance and Accounting Professionals
                            CMAA International Cocoa Conference 2023

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Share the Vision: Driving
                            Innovation through Research and Development

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Expanding the
                            Possibilities: Rise of Artisan Chocolatier

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Facing the Future
                            Together: Empowering Farmers and Advancing Global Cocoa Production

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Success through
                            Synergy: Reinventing Cocoa Agribusiness

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Working Together to
                            Win: Implementing Sustainable Practices across Cocoa & Chocolate Value Chain

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: All In! Role of Women
                            and Youth in Cocoa

                            The 8th Indonesian International Cocoa Conference 2023: Shaping the Future:
                            Global Policy for the Future of Cocoa & Chocolate
                            The Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main Market Listed Issuer
                                  Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 145

                  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
II. Board Composition (Cont’d)

       Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
       The courses and training programmes attended by the Directors are as follows: (Cont’d)

Name of Director  Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Ng Kim Hian       National Tax Conference 2023
                  Step Acquisition (MFRS 3) and Disposal (MFRS 10)
Tan Pui Suang     Equity Accounting
                  Impairment of Assets
                  ISA 550 Audit of Related Parties and Related Party Transactions
                  Tax and OECD Pillar 2
                  Managing Cybersecurity Risk
                  Reserve Matters for Shareholder
                  Budget 2023
                  ESG as Key Driver to Business Sustainability
                  ASEAN Tax Forum 2023
                  Bursa Advocacy Sessions for Directors & CEO of Main Market Listed Issuers
                  Malaysia and the Global Min Tax
                  Everything about Dividend
                  MFRS Updates 2023

The Directors are mindful that they shall continue to undergo relevant training programmes in order to stay abreast
with the latest developments in the industry and to better enable them to fulfil their responsibilities.

The Company Secretaries and external auditors have also regularly updated the Directors on the latest relevant
regulatory requirements and accounting standards to enable them to keep abreast with such developments and
amendments.
146 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

III. Remuneration

       Remuneration Committee

       The Remuneration Committee was established on 26 April 2005 and is primarily responsible for the development
       and review of the remuneration policy and packages for the Board members.

       The Remuneration Committee is currently chaired by Independent Non-Executive Director, Nurulhuda Binti Abhd
       Kadir, and comprises wholly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee operates
       under its terms of reference, which has been approved by the Board.

       In compliance with Practices 7.1 and 7.2 in the MCCG, the Remuneration Committee has in place policies and
       procedures to determine the remuneration of directors and senior management, which takes into account the
       demands, complexities and performance of the company as well as skills and experience required. The remuneration
       policy is reviewed from time to time to ensure the remuneration of Directors and senior management are on par with
       other publicly listed companies.

       The Remuneration Committee had one (1) meeting during the financial year ended 31 December 2023, which was
       attended by all members. The activities carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the financial year under
       review were as follows:

       - Reviewed and recommended to the Board the remuneration packages for Executive Directors based on the
               outcome of performance reviews;

       - Reviewed and recommended to the Board remuneration packages for key senior management based on the
               outcome of performance reviews;

       - Determined the remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the
               quality required to manage the business of the Group successfully;

       - Ensured the remuneration and incentives for independent directors does not conflict with their obligation in
               bringing objectivity and independent judgment on matters discussed;

       - Reviewed the Group’s compensation policy for the Executive Directors and ensure alignment of compensation
               to corporate performance and market practices; and

       - Approved the annual salary increment of the Executive Directors in respect of each financial year.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)

       Directors’ Remuneration
       The details of Directors’ remuneration payable to the Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are as follows:  

                                               Group (RM’000)                       Company (RM’000)

                                        Salaries &             EPF & Benefits-      Salaries &     EPF & Benefits-

                                 Fees   Allowances Bonuses SOCSO in-kind Fees       Allowances Bonuses SOCSO in-kind

Executive Directors                                                                                                                                                 Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 147

Tay Hoe Lian                     180    1,968       3,630      218  16          -   -           -     -  -                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick       180    1,074       1,598      31   17          -   -           -     -  -

Hia Cheng                        180    2,122       4,566      204  75          -   -           -     -  -

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Ang Nyee Nyee                        -  -           -          -    -           62  3           -     -  -

Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir            -  -           -          -    -           48  2           -     -  -

Tan Pui Suang

(Appointed on 27 February 2023)      -  -           -          -    -           50  3           -     -  -

Ng Kim Hian

(Appointed on 27 February 2023)      -  -           -          -    -           42  3           -     -  -

Tan Ah Lai

(Resigned w.e.f. 5 April 2023)       -  -           -          -    -           22  1           -     -  -
148 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. Remuneration (Cont’d)

       Key Senior Management’s Remuneration

       The details of Key Senior Management’s remuneration in successive bands of RM50,000 for the financial year ended
       31 December 2023 are as follows:

Band                       Number of Key Senior Management

RM350,001 – RM400,000                                1
RM550,001 – RM600,000                                1
RM750,001 – RM800,000                                1
RM1,650,001 - RM1,700,000                            1
RM2,300,001 - RM2,350,000                            1
RM2,400,001 - RM2,450,000                            1

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit Committee

       Uphold Integrity in Financial Reporting by Company

       The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and re-appointment of external auditors. Together with the
       external auditor, the Audit Committee reviews the audit plan, evaluation of the system of internal controls and audit
       report and subsequently reports to the Board.

       In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the Group’s internal audit function is effective and independent and
       carries out its work in accordance with a recognised framework. The internal auditors report directly to the Audit
       Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls and significant risks. The Audit
       Committee reviews and evaluates the key concerns and issues, ensuring that appropriate and prompt remedial
       action is taken by the management.

       Audit Committee activities are detailed in the Audit Committee Report and Statement of Risk Management and
       Internal Control.

       The Board aims to provide and present a clear, balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Group’s financial
       performance and prospects at the end of the financial year, primarily through the annual financial statements and
       quarterly announcement of results to shareholders, as well as the interview with the Managing Director/Chief
       Executive Officer and review of the Group’s operations in this Annual Report.

       The Board, with the assistance of Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring that the financial statements give a
       true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company as at the end of the reporting period and of
       their results and cash flows for the period then ended. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensure
       that accounting standards approved by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board in Malaysia and the provisions
       of the Companies Act 2016 are complied with and that reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have
       been made. The Directors’ overall responsibilities also include taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
       safeguard the assets of the Group and for the implementation and continued operation of adequate accounting and
       internal control systems for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 149

                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

I. Audit Committee (Cont’d)

       Uphold Integrity in Financial Reporting by Company (Cont’d)

       The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
       Group’s position and prospects in the Directors’ Report and the Financial Statements set out in this Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

       Recognise and Manage Group Risks

       The Board recognises its responsibility over the principal risks of various aspects in the Group’s business.

       The Board and Management are mindful of measures required to identify risks residing in any major proposed
       transactions, changes in nature of activities and/or operating environment, or venturing into new operating
       environment.

       The responsibilities of identifying and managing risks are delegated to the respective Head of each business unit. A
       Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board by assuming the responsibility of monitoring the
       effectiveness of the Group’s approach on risk management, which was previously delegated to the Audit Committee.
       The composition and details of activities carried out by the Risk Management Committee are set out in the Risk
       Management Committee Report of this Annual Report.

       The key features of the risk management and internal controls are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
       Internal Control as stated on pages 151 to 156 of this Annual Report.

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

I. Communication with Stakeholders

       Ensure Timely and High Quality Disclosure

       An essential aspect of an active and constructive communication policy is the promptness in disseminating
       information to shareholders and investors. The corporate disclosure process and mechanism is guided by a formal
       Corporate Disclosure Policy in order to enable comprehensive, accurate and timely disclosures pertaining to the
       Group to the regulators, shareholders and stakeholders of the Company.

       The Company acknowledges the need for investors to be informed of all material business and corporate
       developments affecting the Group.

       The timely release of quarterly results of the Group and the issue of the Company’s Annual Reports provide regular
       information on the state of affairs of the Group. These, together with the announcements to Bursa Securities, circulars
       to shareholders and, where appropriate, ad-hoc press statements and interviews, are the principal channels for
       dissemination of information by the Company to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally. This information
       is also accessible by the public through the Bursa Securities’ website at www.bursamalaysia.com.
150 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)

I. Communication with Stakeholders (Cont’d)

       In addition, the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com provides information on the Group’s business, corporate
       development and announcements to Bursa Securities. Other information relevant to shareholders and investors such
       as Annual Reports, circulars to shareholders and quarterly reports are available for download at the Company’s
       website.

       Promoting Sustainability

       The Company manages its business responsibly by managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of
       its operations. The Company produces the annual report, which highlights the financial aspects of the business and
       provides a clear, comprehensive and transparent representation of the Company’s performance annually.

II. Conduct of General Meetings

       Annual Report and General Meetings

       The Company recognises the importance of maintaining transparency and accountability to its shareholders. The
       Board ensures that all the Company’s shareholders are treated equitably and the rights of all investors, including
       minority shareholders, are protected. The Board provides its shareholders and investors with information on its
       business, financials and other key activities in this Annual Report, in which the contents are continuously enhanced
       to take into account the developments, amongst others, in corporate governance.

       The conduct of the meeting follows Practices 13.1, 13.2, 13.3, 13.4, 13.5 and 13.6 of the MCCG. Notice for general
       meetings is given to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting. The Board is cognisant of the advantages of
       poll voting at general meetings to ensure accurate, transparency and efficiency of the voting process and outcomes
       at general meetings. All the resolutions tabled at the general meetings are voted by poll. All Directors attended the
       Nineteenth AGM held on 31 May 2023. Technology was leveraged in order for the meeting to be accessible to all
       shareholders and to support a meaningful engagement between the Board, senior management and shareholders.
       Minutes of the general meetings and key matters discussed during the Nineteenth AGM are also circulated to
       shareholders within 30 business days of the meeting.

COMPLIANCE STATEMENT

The Board is pleased to report that this Statement, together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which is
available on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com, provides the corporate governance practices of the Company
with reference to the MCCG. The Board considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the
broad Principles as set out in the MCCG. However, the Board has reserved several of the Practices and has rationalised
and provided justifications for the deviations in the CG Report. Nevertheless, the Company will continue to strengthen its
governance practices to safeguard the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders.

This Statement was presented and approved at the meeting of the Board on 15 April 2024.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 151

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND
INTERNAL CONTROL

INTRODUCTION

Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements requires the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of any given
Listed Issuer to include in its annual report a Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. The Board is pleased
to provide the following statement that is prepared in accordance with the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Guidelines”) endorsed by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”) which outlines the nature and scope of the risk management and internal controls of the Group during the
financial year under review until the date of approval.

BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY

The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of internal controls and risk management practices within the
Group to meet its business objectives. The Board affirms its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal
controls and effective risk management, and for reviewing the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of these systems
to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. It covers not only financial controls but operational and
compliance controls, and risk management.

However, such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement, losses or fraud. These systems were designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives of the Group.

RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

In dealing with its stewardship responsibilities, the Board recognises that an effective risk management is part of good
business management practice. The Board acknowledges that all areas of the Group’s activities involve some degree
of risk and is committed to ensuring that the Group has an effective risk management framework which will allow the
Group to be able to identify, evaluate, monitor and manage risks continuously that affect the achievement of the Group’s
business objectives.

This process is annually reviewed by the Board. It is intended that any key risk or significant control failings or weaknesses
shall be identified and discussed in these reports including the impact they have had or may have on the Group and the
actions to rectify them.

The key elements of the Group’s Risk Management Framework are described below:

• Structure

       The Group adopts a decentralised approach to risk management which comprises strategic and operational risks
       (including financial and compliance risks).

Type of Risks                          Accountability
Strategic risk
                                       The Board, Group Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Group Chief Financial
Operational risk (including financial  Officer (“CFO”) and Group Chief Operating Officer (“COO”)
and compliance risks)                  Senior Management and Head of Department
152 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)

• Structure (Cont’d)

               Strategic risks are risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group, but have a significant
               impact on its strategic decisions or activities. Accountability for managing strategic risks therefore rests with
               the Board, Group CEO and Group CFO. The benefit of effectively managing strategic risks is that the Group can
               better forecast and quickly adapt to the changing demands that are placed upon the Group. It also means that
               the Group is less likely to be affected by some external event that calls for significant change.

               Operational risks, including financial and compliance risks are inherent in the ongoing activities within
               the different subsidiaries of the Group. Typically, some of the risks cover foreign exchange, credit, competency,
               technology, etc. Senior management requires ongoing assurance that these operational risks are identified
               and managed. Accountability for managing operational risks rests specifically with the respective Heads of
               Department.

• Risk Awareness Culture

       Risk awareness culture is reflected by the emphasis on strong corporate governance, organisational structure with
       clearly defined roles and responsibilities, effective communication and training, commitment to compliance with
       laws, regulations and internal controls, integrity in fiduciary responsibilities and clear policies, procedures and
       guidelines.

• Risk Assessment

       Senior Management identifies and assesses risks from time-to-time based on business nature and objective. Senior
       Management reports quarterly to the Board for any significant risk identified or control failure.

• Risk Appetite

       The Group’s risk appetite defines the amount and types of risk that the Group is able and willing to accept in pursuit
       of its business objectives. It also reflects the level of risk tolerance and limits set to govern, manage and control the
       Group’s risk taking activities.

       A clear Limit of Authority has been formalised to approve transactions to ensure that they are within the risk appetite
       of the Group.

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM

The key elements of the Group’s internal control system are described below:

• Control Environment

       The importance of a proper control environment is emphasised throughout the organisation. Focus is directed towards
       the quality and abilities of the Group’s employees with continuing education and training to enhance the skills of
       employees and reinforce qualities of professionalism and integrity. Such training also includes internal briefings and
       external seminars for selected employees to enhance the level of awareness and knowledge on matters relating to
       risk management and internal controls.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 153

                    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)

• Code of Conduct

       Code of Conduct is the cornerstone of setting the proper tone at the top for the business's culture. The Board and
       management have formalised it as the standard of expected ethical behaviour for the all employees. It spells out
       rules and expectations regarding workplace safety and health, bribery, equal opportunities, workplace environment,
       etc.

• Organisational Structure

       The Group operates on a hierarchical organisation structure that defines the authority limits, lines of responsibility
       and reporting mechanism. All Subsidiaries have clear accountabilities to ensure appropriate control procedures are
       in place.

       The key elements of the Group’s organisational structure are as follows:

               Management

               o Policy and Procedures: Management has implemented a series of documented Policy and Procedures
                      to govern the Group’s key business processes. These policies and procedures deal with, amongst others,
                      control issues for procurement, credit control, warehousing, information technology, health and safety,
                      etc. These procedures are reviewed annually by senior management to ensure its relevancy.

               o Human Capital: There are guidelines within the Group for hiring and termination of staff, formal training
                      programmes for staff and annual performance appraisals to enhance the level of staff competency in
                      carrying out their duties and responsibilities.

               o Safeguarding of Assets: Adequate insurance and physical safeguarding of major assets are in place
                      to ensure that they are sufficiently covered against any mishap that may result in material losses to the
                      Group.

               o Related Party Transactions: Internal control procedures are established to ensure that related party
                      transactions are undertaken in compliance with the Group’s practices, the Listing Requirements, and to
                      ensure that these transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms,
                      which are in the best interest of the Group’s stakeholders.

               o Communication: Information is communicated through circulars, emails, meetings and internal memos.

               o Site Visits: Annual visits by the head office personnel to business units in remote locations to ascertain
                      compliance with the established Policy and Procedures of the Group by local management.

               o Management Meetings: Quarterly meetings with the Heads of Departments provide a sound platform
                      for communicating information and providing feedback to and from Management.

               Internal Audit

               The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional service provider (the
               “Internal Auditors”) which carries out its functions independently with a risk-based approach and provides the
               Audit Committee and the Board with the assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal
               controls. The cost of internal audit function for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 was approximately
               RM48,000.
154 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)

• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)

               Internal Audit (Cont’d)

               Any significant control lapses and/or deficiencies noted from the reviews will be documented and communicated
               to management for review and corrective actions. The Internal Auditors report to the Audit Committee on all
               significant non-compliance matters, internal control weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve
               the audit issues identified.

               The Internal Auditors are solely responsible for planning, implementing and reporting the audits for the Group.
               The Internal Auditors:

               o Prepare a detailed Internal Audit Plan in consultation with the senior management for submission to the
                      Audit Committee for approval;

               o Carry out all activities to conduct the audits in an effective, professional and timely manner;

               o Undertake discussions with the audit committee upon completion of each audit for any significant control
                      lapses and/or deficiencies noted from the reviews for their review and corrective actions; and

               o Submit quarterly reports to the Audit Committee for all significant non-compliance matters, internal
                      control weaknesses and actions taken by management to resolve the audit issues identified.

               Audit Committee

               The Audit Committee reviews, monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s
               internal controls and financial issues raised by the External and Internal Auditors, regulatory authorities and
               management. The review includes reviewing written reports from the Internal and External Auditors, to ensure
               that where deficiencies in internal controls have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is
               taken by management.

               The Audit Committee also convenes meetings with External Auditors without the presence of management.
               In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the adequacy of the scope, functions and competency of the Internal
               and External Auditors. The Audit Committee also reviews and evaluates the procedures established to ensure
               compliance with applicable legislation, the Listing Requirements and the Group practices.

               The Audit Committee Report set out on pages 157 to 158 of this Annual Report contains further details on the
               activities undertaken by the Audit Committee in 2023.

               Risk Management Committee

               The Risk Management Committee reviews and recommends the Group’s risk management framework and
               evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures and risk action
               plans. The review includes reviewing quarterly reports from Enterprise Risk Management Committee, to ensure
               that where risks have been identified, appropriate and prompt remedial action is taken by management.

               The Risk Management Committee Report set out on pages 159 to 160 of this Annual Report contains further
               details on the activities undertaken by the Risk Management Committee in 2023.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 155

                    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (CONT’D)

• Organisational Structure (Cont’d)

               Board

               The Board holds regular discussions with the Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and management,
               and considers their reports on matters relating to internal controls and deliberates on their recommendations
               for implementation.

               o Business Direction: The Group’s vision, mission, corporate philosophy and strategic direction have been
                      formalised and communicated to employees at all levels. The Board retains control over the Group with
                      appropriate management reporting mechanisms which enable the Board to review the Group’s progress.

               o Reporting and Information: Senior management reports to the Board for the strategic plans and business
                      units’ performances on a quarterly basis. The monitoring of individual business units’ performances is
                      conducted monthly, with major variances followed up and management action taken, where necessary.

                      Comprehensive information is provided to management every quarter, covering financial performance,
                      key business indicators, key business risks and legal, environmental and regulatory matters. Quarterly
                      meetings attended by management, led by the Group CEO, are held to discuss the various aspects of the
                      business, including the financial and operational performance of the Group. Key matters affecting the
                      Group are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and are reported to the Board on a quarterly
                      basis. Management also ensures that it has the knowledge of key market information in respect of the
                      Group’s products/performance and takes pro-active measures, as appropriate, in the best interests of the
                      Group.

               o Monitoring and Review: There are processes for monitoring the system of internal controls and
                      reporting any significant weaknesses together with details of corrective action. The system is reviewed
                      on an ongoing basis by the Board (through the Audit Committee), management and Internal Auditors.
                      Heads of Department are also actively involved in continually improving the control processes within their
                      respective departments.

WEAKNESSES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS WHICH RESULTED IN MATERIAL LOSSES

There were no major weaknesses in internal controls which resulted in material losses during the financial year under
review until the date of approval of this Statement.

ASSURANCE PROVIDED BY THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

In line with the Guidelines, the Group CEO and Group CFO have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
management and internal control systems have been operating adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, to meet
the Group’s business objectives during the financial year under review.
156 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS

As required by paragraph 15.23 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, the External Auditors have
reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the
year ended 31 December 2023. Their review was performed in accordance with the Audit and Assurance Practice Guide
3 (“AAPG 3”) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. The External Auditors’ procedures have been conducted
to assess whether the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is supported by the documentation prepared
by or for the Directors and that it is an appropriate reflection of the process adopted by the Directors in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal control for the Group.

AAPG3 does not require the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control system of the Group. Based on the procedures performed, nothing had come to their attention that
caused them to believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out above was not prepared,
in all material respects, in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraph 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, nor was factually inaccurate.

CONCLUSION

The Board has taken the necessary steps to ensure that appropriate systems are in place for the assets of the Group to be
adequately safeguarded through the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and material misstatements.

The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted
in any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Group’s annual report save for
those mentioned above. The Board continues to take pertinent measures to sustain and, where required, to improve the
Group’s risk management and internal control systems in meeting the Group’s strategic objectives.

This Statement was approved by the Board on 15 April 2024.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 157

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

MEMBERSHIP

Chairman:   Ng Kim Hian
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Appointed as Committee Chairman on 5 April 2023)

            Ang Nyee Nyee
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

Members:    Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)

            Tan Pui Suang
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)

            Tan Ah Lai
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at www.gcbcocoa.com.

SUMMARY OF WORK

A total of five (5) Audit Committee meetings were held for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. The attendance
details of each Audit Committee member are as follows:

Name of members                                                 Attendance
                                                                      4/4
Ng Kim Hian                                                           4/5
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 5 April 2023)                     4/4
                                                                      2/2
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir                                             2/2

Tan Pui Suang
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)

Ang Nyee Nyee
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

Tan Ah Lai
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

During the financial year under review, the Audit Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance with its
existing Terms of Reference.
158 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)

The main work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the financial year included the following:

- considered the nomination of external auditors for recommendation to the Board for re-appointment;
- considered the audit fees payable to the external auditors for recommendation to the Board for approval;
- reviewed the performance of the external auditors in relation to the audit and performed follow-up measures on areas

       of performance of external auditors that require improvement, where required;
- reviewed and evaluated factors relating to the independence of the external auditors. The Audit Committee worked

       closely with the external auditors in establishing procedures in assessing the suitability and independence of the
       external auditors, in confirming that they are, and have been, independent throughout the conduct of the audit
       engagement with the Group in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International Ethics Standards
       Board for Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Accountants;
- reviewed the external auditors’ scope of work and audit plans and strategy for the year prior to the audit;
- reviewed the results of the audit, the audit report and the management letter, including management’s response, and
       the assistance given by the employees to the external auditors;
- reviewed the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 and matters relating to
       management judgments and estimates;
- reviewed quarterly unaudited financial statements of the Company prior to submission to the Board for their
       consideration and approval;
- reviewed whether the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position and
       performance;
- met with external auditors without the presence of management on 27 February 2023 and 27 November 2023 and
       discussed on matters arising from the interim and final results;
- reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors and/or its network firms to eliminate or reduce the
       threat to objectivity and independence;
- reviewed the internal auditors’ programmes and plans for the financial year under review and the assessment of the
       effectiveness of internal audit activities;
- reviewed the re-appointment of the internal auditors and audit fee;
- reviewed the internal audit plans, reports, recommendations and management’s response;
- reviewed related party transactions including reviewing recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading
       nature and control procedures for those transactions in the shareholders’ mandate;
- reviewed the anti-bribery and corruption policy and recommended the amendment and/or modification, if any to the Board;
- reviewed processes and controls that were in place for effective and efficient financial reporting and disclosures under the
       financial reporting standards;
- ensured that the Group is in compliance with the regulations of Companies Act 2016, the applicable approved accounting
       standards as per Malaysian Accounting Standards Board, Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
       Berhad, Malaysia Code on Corporate Governance and other legislative and reporting requirements;
- reviewed the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report and
       the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and recommended their adoption to the Board, deliberated
       the disclosure requirements for sustainability statement and noted the management action plan; and
- reviewed, monitor and report any conflict of interest ("COI") situations that involve directors and key senior management
       within the Group included those COI situations that arose, persist or may arise and the measures taken to resolve,
       eliminate or mitigate such COI situation. During the financial year, there were no COI situations that involved directors
       and key senior management within the Group.

INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls which provide reasonable
assessment of effective operations, internal financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations as well as with
internal procedures and guidelines.

The Company has engaged an external independent consultant to carry out the internal audit function to assist the Audit
Committee in maintaining a sound system of internal control. The internal audits were undertaken to provide independent
assessments on the accuracy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems.

An overview of the Group’s approach in maintaining a sound system of internal control is set out in the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control on pages 151 to 156 of this Annual Report.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 159

RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT

For an effective risk management framework, the Risk Management Committee was set up to oversee the risk management
of the Group pursuant to step up practice 10.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance ("MCCG").

MEMBERSHIP

Chairman:   Hia Cheng
            (Executive Director)

Members:    Ng Kim Hian
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)

            Tan Pui Suang
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Appointed as Committee Member on 1 Dec 2023)

            Tan Ah Lai
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

            Ang Nyee Nyee
            (Independent Non-Executive Director)
            (Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 1 Dec 2023)

TERMS OF REFERENCE

The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee is available for download on the Company’s website at
www.gcbcocoa.com.

SUMMARY OF WORK

A total of five (5) Risk Management Committee meeting was held for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. The
attendance details of each Risk Management Committee member are as follows:

Name of members                                               Attendance
                                                                    5/5
Hia Cheng                                                           4/4
                                                                    0/0
Ng Kim Hian                                                         2/2
(Appointed as Committee Member on 5 April 2023)                     5/5

Tan Pui Suang
(Appointed as Committee Member on 1 Dec 2023)

Tan Ah Lai
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 5 April 2023)

Ang Nyee Nyee
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 1 Dec 2023)
160 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT

SUMMARY OF WORK (CONT’D)

The Risk Management Committee is responsible in assisting the Board to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s
approach on risk management. The Group has a formal risk management policy and framework approved by the Board.
The Risk Management Committee is supported by the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, which comprises Heads
of Departments and is headed by the Chief Financial Officer, in overseeing the risk management efforts within the Group.

For risk management, the Group has in place an on-going process for identifying principal business risks within the
organisation, assessing the likelihood of occurrence and impact of exposures and determining the corresponding risk
mitigation and treatment measures.

Risk management activities are practised throughout the organisation to support the Risk Management Committee in its
corporate governance responsibilities. Enterprise Risk Management Committee and the respective departmental heads
would proactively and effectively manage significant risks that might affect the Group’s objectives. A set of risk indicators
has been developed and is used to enhance the monitoring and mitigation of risks events.
		
During the financial year under review, the Risk Management Committee discharged its functions and duties in accordance
with its existing Terms of Reference.

The main work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee during the financial year included the following:

- Provided guidance for the direction of the Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee;
- Reviewed and recommended the Group’s risk management framework for the Board’s approval;
- Monitored the implementation of the risk management framework and activities conducted by the Group ERM

       Committee;
- Reviewed and advised on the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance;
- Reviewed the adequacy of the Group’s overall risk assessment procedures to ensure all material risks are identified;
- Reviewed material risks and evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of risk action plans, vis-à-vis the risk appetite

       and risk profile of the Group;
- Reviewed the Group’s risk profile on an annual basis and ensured that all material risks outside of the Group’s

       tolerable ranges are being addressed via risk action plans in a timely manner;
- Reported to the Board regarding the Group’s risk exposures;
- Reviewed the adequacy of infrastructure and resources for the Group’s risk management; and
- Reviewed the Risk Management Committee Report to ensure that all relevant information as prescribed in the Main

       Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad is disclosed.
                                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 161

STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES

The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements for each financial year. They are responsible
for ensuring that these financial statements are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysia Financial Reporting
Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company and the results and cash flows of the Group and of
the Company for the financial year then ended.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them
consistently, and made estimates and judgements which are reasonable and prudent. The financial statements have
been prepared on a going-concern basis. It is the duty of the Directors to review the appropriateness of the basis before
adopting the financial statements and present them before the Annual General Meeting together with their Report and
the Auditors’ Report thereon.

The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting and other records are kept to sufficiently explain the
transactions recorded. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to exercise judgement to make
certain estimates that are reasonable, prudent and relevant to be incorporated in the financial statements. The Directors
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

163 Directors’ Report
169 Statement by Directors
169 Statutory Declaration
170 Independent Auditors’ Report
174 Statements of Financial Position
176 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
177 Statements of Changes in Equity
180 Statements of Cash Flows
184 Notes to the Financial Statements
                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 163

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in business of investment holding and provision of management services to
subsidiaries. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are mainly involved in the manufacturing, marketing and promotion
of cocoa related products. Further details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.

There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.

RESULTS                                                                              Group         Company
Profit for the financial year                                                            RM                 RM
Profit attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                             100,925,917           8,741,751

                                                                             100,925,917           8,741,751

DIVIDEND
Dividend paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:

In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023:                                                          RM
First interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, payable on 19 January 2024       23,490,298

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend in respect of the current financial year ended 31 December
2023.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.

ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no new issues of shares or debentures during the financial year.
164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

TREASURY SHARES

As at 31 December 2023, the Company held 400,000 (2022: 400,000) of its ordinary shares as treasury shares out of its
total 1,174,914,924 (2022: 1,174,914,924) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares. Such treasury shares are held at a
carrying amount of RM720,042 (2022: RM720,042).

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

DIRECTORS

The Directors who have held for office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:

Guan Chong Berhad

Tay Hoe Lian*
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick*
Hia Cheng*
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Ang Nyee Nyee
Ng Kim Hian
Tan Pui Suang

*These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.

Subsidiaries of Guan Chong Berhad

Tay How Yeh
Tay See Min (f)
Yau Tee Wan
Judith Laudenklos (f)
                                        Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165

                                                              DIRECTORS’ REPORT

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:

                                                         Number of ordinary shares

                                        Balance as at    Addition                 Balance as at
                                               1.1.2023                 Sold 31.12.2023

Shares in the Company                   33,111,825       25,085,365     (2,333,333)     55,863,857
Direct interests:                       13,658,945        5,800,000                  -  19,458,945
Tay Hoe Lian                            23,312,417        3,450,000                  -  26,762,417
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Hia Cheng

Indirect interests:                         720,000                  -              -   720,000
Tay Hoe Liana                            2,590,000       4,000,000
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sickb             38,340,042       4,600,000                  -   6,590,000
Hia Chengc
Ang Nyee Nyeed                                  8,000                -              -   42,940,042

                                                                                    -   8,000

Shares in the ultimate holding company
Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. (“GCR”)

Direct interests:                       5,130,000        -                          -   5,130,000
Tay Hoe Lian
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick              3,762,180        -                          -   3,762,180
Hia Cheng
                                        1,350,000        -                          -   1,350,000

a Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the Company.
b Deemed interest by virtue of his daughters, Tay Jing Ye’s, and Tay Sing Ye’s, and his son, Tay Lian Shi’s shareholding in

  the Company.
c Deemed interest by virtue of his wife, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughters, Hia Sin Yee’s and Hia Sin Che’s shareholding

  in the Company.
d Deemed interest by virtue of her husband, Leong Chee Foong’s shareholding in the Company.

None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares and
options over ordinary shares in the Company or ordinary shares, options over ordinary shares and debentures of its
related corporations during the financial year.
166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors of the Company have received or become entitled to
receive any benefit by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director, or with a firm
of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than
the following:

(a) remuneration received by certain Directors as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries; and

(b) by virtue of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business.

There were no arrangements made during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which
had the object of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:

Salaries and allowances         Group    Company
Fees                                 RM           RM
Other emoluments
                           7,977,741                 -
                              765,257      225,257

                          12,766,591         11,100
                          21,509,589       236,357

INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS

The Group and the Company effected Directors and officers liability insurance amounted to RM20,650 during the financial
year to protect the Directors of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims
brought against the Directors.

No indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY

(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR

       (a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable
               steps:

               (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making
                      of provision for doubtful debts and have satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written
                      off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

               (ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the
                      ordinary course of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 167

                                                                                     DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY (CONTINUED)
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR (CONTINUED)

       (b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the
               financial year have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual
               nature.

(II) FROM THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
       (c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
               (i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful
                      debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
               (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
                      of the Company misleading; and
               (iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
                      of the Group and of Company misleading or inappropriate.
       (d) In the opinion of the Directors:
               (i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect
                      substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which
                      this report is made; and
               (ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the
                      period of twelve (12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of
                      the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.

(III) AS AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
       (e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
               financial year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
       (f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
               financial year.
       (g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in the report or financial statements
               which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.

ULTIMATE HOLDING COMPANY
The Directors regard Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated in Malaysia, as the ultimate holding
company.
168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                         GUAN CHONG BERHAD

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:

Statutory audit                                                                      Group    Company
Other services                                                                            RM           RM

                                                                                 1,170,924      119,000
                                                                                   656,880          5,000

                                                                                 1,827,804      124,000

Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.

Tay Hoe Lian              Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director                  Director

Johor Bahru
15 April 2024
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 169

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 174 to 256 have been drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards, and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
2023 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.

On behalf of the Board,

Tay Hoe Lian                     Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Director                         Director

Johor Bahru
15 April 2024

STATUTORY DECLARATION

I, Hia Cheng, being the Director primarily responsible for the financial management of Guan Chong Berhad, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 174 to 256 are, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly  )

declared by the abovenamed at )

Johor Bahru, Johor this  )

15 April 2024            )

                                 Hia Cheng

Before me:
170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF GUAN CHONG BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

Report on Audit of the Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Guan Chong Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on
pages 174 to 256.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of
the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key Audit Matters of the Group

1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value

       As at 31 December 2023, the inventories of the Group of RM2,524,312,939 that mainly comprised cocoa beans and
       related cocoa products. Details of the inventories have been disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.

       We determined this to be a key audit matter because of the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of
       finished goods to net realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility,
       which may result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable values.
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 171

                                                               INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                  TO THE MEMBERS OF GUAN CHONG BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

Key Audit Matters (continued)

Key Audit Matters of the Group (continued)

1) Carrying amount of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value (continued)

       Audit response

       Our audit procedures included the following:

       (i) Obtained an understanding of the process implemented by management over the determination of lower of
               cost and net realisable value used in the valuation of inventories;

       (ii) Analysed the inventories turnover period by comparing that to the assessment of management on the
               identification of slow moving and obsolete inventories; and

       (iii) Assessed the appropriateness of inventories written down by verifying selling prices subsequent to the end of
               the reporting period.

        
2) Recoverability of trade receivables

       As at 31 December 2023, the net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM474,493,376 and
       cumulative allowance for impairment on trade receivables was RM14,293,221 as disclosed in Note 14 to the financial
       statements.

       We determined this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in
       determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.

       Audit response

       Our procedures included the following:

       (i) Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward looking information adjustment applied
               by the Group;

       (ii) Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward looking
               information and expected credit losses;

       (iii) Assessed the level of cash received subsequent to the end of the reporting period for its effect in reducing the
               amounts outstanding as at the end of the reporting period; and

       (iv) Recomputed the correlation coefficient between forward looking factors and historical credit losses to determine
               the appropriateness of the forward looking information of the Group.

Key Audit Matters of the Company

We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of audit of the financial
statements of the Company.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF GUAN CHONG BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon (continued)

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards,
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control
as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
       whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
       evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
       misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
       intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
       appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
       and the Company’s internal control.

(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
       related disclosures made by the Directors.
                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 173

                             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF GUAN CHONG BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)

(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
       the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
       significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
       material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
       financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
       Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
       events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
       including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
       underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
       within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
       supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.

Other Matters

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.

BDO PLT                                  Ho Kok Khiaw
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206  03412/02/2025 J
Chartered Accountants                    Chartered Accountant

Kuala Lumpur
15 April 2024
174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                 GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                      Note      Group    2022              Company   2022
                                                           RM                          RM
                                            2023                         2023
                                              RM                           RM

ASSETS                                7     1,407,122,789 1,196,068,129  -           -
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment         9     51,623,835   19,572,689      -           -
Investment properties
Intangible assets                     10    86,897,472   86,418,056      -           -
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in associate              11    -            - 716,452,328 265,198,030
Deferred tax assets
Other receivables                     12    4,742,551    4,489,477       5,000,000   5,000,000

Current assets                        21    1,617,975    1,616,903       -           -
Inventories
Trade and other receivables           14    -            - 395,110,823 532,790,111
Derivative financial assets
Current tax assets                          1,552,004,622 1,308,165,254 1,116,563,151 802,988,141
Cash and bank balances
                                      13 2,524,312,939 1,589,224,653     -           -
TOTAL ASSETS
                                      14    850,027,552 624,744,436      18,179,986  6,164,970
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the  15    466,554,022  55,390,479      -           -

  parent                                    23,924,521   13,738,682      -           1,453,772
Share capital
Treasury shares                       16    85,094,481   69,110,829      14,277,271  6,576,777
Reserves
TOTAL EQUITY                                3,949,913,515 2,352,209,079  32,457,257  14,195,519

                                            5,501,918,137 3,660,374,333 1,149,020,408 817,183,660

                                      17    495,237,253 495,237,253 495,237,253 495,237,253

                                      18    (720,042)    (720,042)       (720,042)   (720,042)

                                      19 1,258,257,252 1,144,038,109     2,366,043   17,114,590

                                            1,752,774,463 1,638,555,320 496,883,254 511,631,801
                                                Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 175

                                        STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

                                                                                       AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                  Note      Group                          2022          Company   2022
                                                                             RM                      RM
                                        2023                                           2023
                                          RM                                             RM

LIABILITIES                       20    647,999,908 364,396,970 600,000,000 300,000,000
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings                        8     63,131,394                         60,436,809  -           -
Lease liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities          21    80,257,176                         74,995,859  -           -
Retirement benefits obligations
                                  22    3,073,841                          2,720,110   -           -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables                794,462,319 502,549,748 600,000,000 300,000,000
Derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings                        23 1,181,616,204 611,624,732                         31,617,353  1,452,603
Lease liabilities
Current tax liabilities           15    211,349,113                        91,912,676  19,568,203  4,099,256

TOTAL LIABILITIES                 20 1,533,833,266 796,357,406                         -           -
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
                                  8     13,738,659                         9,552,357   -           -

                                        14,144,113                         9,822,094   951,598     -

                                        2,954,681,355 1,519,269,265                    52,137,154  5,551,859

                                        3,749,143,674 2,021,819,013 652,137,154 305,551,859

                                        5,501,918,137 3,660,374,333 1,149,020,408 817,183,660

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                    Group                              Company

                                             Note   2023                   2022        2023              2022
                                                      RM                     RM          RM                RM

Revenue                                      25     5,320,841,248 4,419,838,924        46,465,364        61,869,755

Cost of sales                                       (4,794,585,505) (4,042,203,886)    -                 -

Gross profit                                        526,255,743 377,635,038            46,465,364        61,869,755

Other income                                        669,957,037            97,562,550  9,868,369         27,734,116

Net impairment losses on trade and other                  (669,986)        (550,228)                  -                 -
  receivables                                        (62,020,788)     (64,137,048)                    -                 -
                                                    (128,627,237)    (100,001,381)      (3,766,070)       (2,621,117)
Selling and distribution costs                      (720,491,092)     (66,260,545)     (15,468,947)                     -
                                                    (145,539,583)     (56,043,780)     (25,713,904)      (11,520,000)
Administrative expenses

Other expenses

Finance costs                                26

Share of profit/(loss) of associate, net of               193,792         (123,165)                  -                 -
  tax                                               139,057,886      188,081,441       11,384,812        75,462,754
                                                    (38,131,969)     (40,670,979)      (2,643,061)
Profit before tax                            26     100,925,917      147,410,462                             375,278
                                                                                        8,741,751        75,838,032
Tax expense                                  27

Profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive income

Items that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss

- hedge of net investments in foreign        27(d)  (15,443,611)           2,612,141   -                 -
     operations                                     52,077,066             7,525,523

- foreign currency translation               27(d)         59,282              60,975  -                 -

- share of other comprehensive profit        27(d)                                     -                 -
     of associate

Items that will not be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss

- remeasurement of employee benefits

liability, net of tax                        27(d)  90,787                 (87,608)    -                 -

Total other comprehensive income,                    36,783,524       10,111,031                   -                   -
  net of tax                                        137,709,441      157,521,493       8,741,751         75,838,032
                                                    100,925,917      147,410,462       8,741,751         75,838,032
Total comprehensive income

Profit attributable to owners of the parent

Total comprehensive income attributable             137,709,441 157,521,493            8,741,751         75,838,032
  to owners of the parent

Earnings per ordinary share attributable
  to owners of the parent (sen):

- Basic and diluted                          28     8.59                   13.52

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
                                                                  Non-Distributable                           Distributable                                        Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 177

Group                                   Note           Share      Treasury           Foreign       Hedging    Retained        Total             STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
                                                      capital        shares       exchange          reserve   earnings       equity
                                                                          RM    translation               RM                                   FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
                                                           RM                                                         RM         RM
                                               495,237,253                           reserve
                                                                                            RM
                                                               -
Balance as at 1 January 2023                                      (720,042)     59,919,506         (4,226,324) 1,088,344,927 1,638,555,320
                                                               -             -                -                 - 100,925,917 100,925,917
Profit for the year                                            -
                                                               -
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for                          -
  the year:                                                    -

- hedge of net investments in foreign                          -
                                               495,237,253
operations                              27(d)                     -                  - (15,443,611)           - (15,443,611)

- foreign currency translation          27(d)                     -             52,077,066         -          - 52,077,066
     differences

- remeasurement of post-employment

benefit obligation, net of tax          27(d)                     -                  -             -          90,787         90,787

- share of other comprehensive profit

of associate                            27(d)                     -             59,282             -          -              59,282

Total comprehensive income, net of tax  -                         -             52,136,348 (15,443,611) 101,016,704 137,709,441

Transaction with owners

Dividend                                29                                   -                  -                 - (23,490,298) (23,490,298)
                                                                  (720,042)     112,055,854        (19,669,935) 1,165,871,333 1,752,774,463
Balance as at 31 December 2023
                                                                  Non-Distributable                         Distributable                                  178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Group                                   Note           Share      Treasury           Foreign     Hedging    Retained        Total           STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
                                                      capital        shares       exchange        reserve   earnings       equity
                                                                          RM    translation             RM                                FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
                                                           RM                                                       RM         RM
                                               297,058,820                           reserve
                                                                                            RM
                                                               -
Balance as at 1 January 2022                                      (720,042)     52,333,008       (6,838,465) 1,000,513,508 1,342,346,829
                                                               -             -                -               - 147,410,462 147,410,462
Profit for the year
                                                               -
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for
  the year:                                                    -

- hedge of net investments in foreign                          -
                                                               -
operations                              27(d)                     -                  -           2,612,141  -              2,612,141
                                                               -
- foreign currency translation          27(d)  198,178,433        -             7,525,523        -          -              7,525,523
     differences                               198,178,433
                                               495,237,253
- remeasurement of post-employment

benefit obligation, net of tax          27(d)                     -                  -           -          (87,608)       (87,608)

- share of other comprehensive profit

of associate                            27(d)                     -             60,975           -          -              60,975

Total comprehensive income, net of tax  -                         -             7,586,498        2,612,141 147,322,854 157,521,493

Transactions with owners

Dividends                               29                                   -                -  - (59,491,435) (59,491,435)
                                                                             -                -
Issuance of ordinary shares             17                                   -                -  -          - 198,178,433
                                                                  (720,042)     59,919,506
Total transactions with owners                                                                   - (59,491,435) 138,686,998

Balance as at 31 December 2022                                                                   (4,226,324) 1,088,344,927 1,638,555,320

                                                                                                                                          GUAN CHONG BERHAD
                                                    Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 179

                                              STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                               FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                              Non-distributable                          Distributable

Company                                 Note   Share                       Treasury      Retained                  Total
Balance as at 1 January 2022             29   capital                         shares     earnings                     RM
Profit for the financial year            17                                        RM
Other comprehensive income, net of tax             RM                                            RM       297,106,771
Total comprehensive income, net of tax   29                                                                75,838,032
Transactions with owners                      297,058,820                  (720,042)     767,993                          -
Dividends                                                                                                  75,838,032
Issuance of ordinary shares                   -                            -             75,838,032
Total transactions with owners
Balance as at 31 December 2022/Balance        -                            -             -

  as at 1 January 2023                        -                            -             75,838,032
Profit for the financial year
Other comprehensive income, net of tax                        -            - (59,491,435) (59,491,435)
Total comprehensive income, net of tax        198,178,433
Transaction with owners                       198,178,433                  -             - 198,178,433
Dividend
Balance as at 31 December 2023                495,237,253                  - (59,491,435) 138,686,998
                                                              -
                                                              -            (720,042)     17,114,590       511,631,801
                                                              -                       -   8,741,751          8,741,751
                                                                                      -                -                  -
                                                                                      -   8,741,751          8,741,751

                                                              -                       -  (23,490,298)     (23,490,298)
                                              495,237,253                  (720,042)       2,366,043      496,883,254

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                          GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                            Note       Group        2022            Company         2022
                                                                      RM                              RM
                                             10    2023                           2023
                                                     RM                             RM
                                              7
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING                     9    139,057,886 188,081,441        11,384,812        75,462,754
  ACTIVITIES
                                             10    796,184          746,903                    -                 -
Profit before tax                           14(h)  504,942                    -   (1,000,000)       (1,000,000)
Adjustments for:                            14(h)
Amortisation of intangible assets           22(d)  75,881,811       63,536,458    -                 -
Bad debts written off/(recovered)
Depreciation of:                             26    1,031,950        1,021,236     -                 -
- property, plant and equipment             13(b)
- investment properties                     15(d)  527,627          (184,599)     -                 -
Loss/(Gain) on lease termination
Loss on disposals of property, plant and      7    508,060          92,329        -                 -
                                            14(h)
  equipment                                        5,548,956        1,573,551     -                 -
Impairment loss on:
- intangible assets                                498,566          2,297,072     -                 -
- trade receivables
- other receivables                                1,241,392        -             -                 -
Increase/(Decrease) in defined benefit
                                                          731,409      (454,035)                 -                 -
  obligation                                       145,539,583      56,043,780    25,713,904        11,520,000
Interest expense                                                                  (28,407,364)      (13,895,755)
Interest income                                       (2,356,278)      (456,521)
Inventories written down/(back)                      19,956,939        (285,007)                 -                 -
Net fair value (gain)/loss on derivatives          (291,727,106)    42,708,372    15,468,947         (6,505,921)
Property, plant and equipment written off                               250,933
Reversal of impairment loss on trade                         2,098                               -                 -

  receivables                                      (1,069,972) (1,746,844)        -                 -
Share of (profit)/loss of associate
Provision on onerous contract                      (193,792)        123,165       -                 -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange
                                                   11,674,056       -             -                 -
  translations
Operating profit before changes in working         (36,208,517) (7,399,404) (7,438,072) (4,104,546)

  capital                                          71,945,794 345,948,830         15,722,227        61,476,532
                                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 181

                                                               STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                     FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                              Note       Group        2022                  Company           2022
                                              22(d)                     RM                                      RM
                                                     2023                                 2023
                                                       RM                                   RM

Operating profit before changes in working             71,945,794     345,948,830           15,722,227        61,476,532
  capital carried forward                            (925,042,310)    325,347,693                          -                 -
                                                     (113,682,247)    (140,721,389)
Inventories                                          413,782,163      (147,627,705)       (272,386,954)       (52,517,263)
Trade and other receivables                                                                   6,674,452             (13,876)
Trade and other payables
Net cash (used in)/generated from                    (552,996,600)    382,947,429         (249,990,275)         8,945,393
                                                     (143,365,679)    (54,690,057)         (25,713,904)       (11,520,000)
  operations                                                                                28,407,364        13,895,755
Interest paid                                            2,356,278          456,521                        -
Interest received                                          (386,422)       (329,124)            (913,014)                    -
Retirement benefits paid                                              (52,356,003)               675,323       (1,431,727)
Tax paid                                              (44,933,806)       1,679,135
Tax refunded                                             2,742,948    277,707,901         (247,534,506)                      -
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities                                                                    9,889,421
                                                     (736,583,281)

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING
  ACTIVITIES

Investment in a subsidiary                           -                - (44,765,000) (137,965,500)

Placements of deposits with licensed                 (8,340,554)      (173,121) (7,970,000)                   (125,000)
  banks with original maturity of more than          2,880,636                                                           -
  three months

Proceeds from disposals of property, plant                            942,276             -
  and equipment

Purchase of:

- property, plant and equipment               7(a)   (200,924,711)    (274,817,006)                      -                     -
                                                      (32,853,663)                     -                 -                     -
- investment property                         9                                           (52,735,000)        (138,090,500)
                                                     (239,238,292)    (274,047,851)
Net cash used in investing activities
182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                                    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                              Note       Group             2022               Company          2022
                                                8                            RM                                  RM
                                                     2023                                   2023
                                              16(d)    RM                                     RM

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING                                               -   (70,035,503)                    -  (70,035,503)
  ACTIVITIES                                         1,002,772,510         (128,083,563)    300,000,000                        -
                                                                                                                               -
Dividends paid                                              (709,021)            (757,615)                  -
                                                                        -  198,178,433                      -  198,178,433
Net movements in borrowings                                                 (13,687,268)                    -                  -
                                                        (17,971,434)        (14,385,516)    300,000,000
Net placement of fixed deposits pledged                984,092,055                                             128,142,930

Proceeds from issuance of new shares                 8,270,482 (10,725,466)                 (269,506)          (58,149)

Repayments of lease liabilities                      (1,336,405)           5,096,846        -                  -

Net cash from/(used in) financing activities         47,263,462            52,892,082       557,977            616,126

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash             54,197,539            47,263,462       288,471            557,977
  equivalents

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash
  and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
  financial year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of
  financial year
                                            Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 183

                                                 STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                       FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

                                       Lease liabilities                                Borrowings
                                            (Note 8)                                     (Note 20)

                                       Group                               Company      Group        Company
                                           RM                                       RM      RM                RM

At 1 January 2022                      59,035,410                          - 1,292,289,568 300,000,000

Cash flows                             (12,333,546)                        -            -            -
- Payment of lease liabilities          (1,353,722)
- Interest paid                                       -                    - (54,690,057)            -
- Net repayments of borrowings
Non-cash flows:                        27,315,307                          - (73,393,506)            -
- Additions                                (148,933)
- Effect of foreign exchange                                               -            -                            -
- Termination                           (3,879,072)                                                                  -
- Unwinding of interest                  1,353,722                         -            (3,451,629)                  -
At 31 December 2022/At 1 January 2023  69,989,166                                                                    -
                                                                           -            -            300,000,000

                                                                           -            -

                                                                           - 1,160,754,376

Cash flows                             (15,797,530)                        -            -                            -
- Payment of lease liabilities          (2,173,904)                                                                  -
- Interest paid                                       -                    - (143,365,679)           300,000,000
- Net drawdown of borrowings
Non-cash flows:                        18,416,877                          - 1,146,138,189
- Additions                              5,683,612
- Effect of foreign exchange            (1,422,072)                        -            -                            -
- Termination                            2,173,904                                                                   -
- Unwinding of interest                                                    -            18,306,288                   -
At 31 December 2023                    76,870,053                                                                    -
                                                                           -            -            600,000,000

                                                                           -            -

                                                                           - 2,181,833,174

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

1. CORPORATE INFORMATION

       The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
       Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

       The registered office of the Company is located at No.7 (1st Floor), Jalan Pesta 1/1, Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1, Jalan
       Bakri, 84000 Muar, Johor Darul Takzim.

       The principal place of business is located at PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2, Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang, 81700
       Pasir Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim.

       The ultimate holding company of the Company is Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd., which is incorporated in Malaysia.

       The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 comprise the Company and
       its subsidiaries and interests of the Group in associate. These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia
       (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional currency.

       The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on
       15 April 2024.

2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

       The Company is principally engaged in investment holding and provision of management services to subsidiaries.
       The principal activities and details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements. There have
       been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

       The financial statements of the Group and of the Company set out on pages 174 to 256 have been prepared in
       accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions
       of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

       The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of
       adoption of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the
       financial year are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       4.1 Basis of accounting

               The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
               convention except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.

               The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRSs and IFRS Accounting Standards requires the
               Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue
               and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities. In addition, the Directors are also
               required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. The areas involving such
               judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements. Although these
               estimates and assumptions are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results
               could differ from those estimates.
                                                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185

                                             NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                          31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

4.2 Basis of consolidation

Where the company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. The company controls an
investee if all three of the following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns
from the investee, and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns. Control is
reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of
control.

De-facto control exists in situations where the company has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities
of the investee without holding the majority of the voting rights. In determining whether de-facto control exists
the company considers all relevant facts and circumstances, including:

(a) The size of the company’s voting rights relative to both the size and dispersion of other parties who hold
       voting rights;

(b) Substantive potential voting rights held by the company and by other parties;

(c) Other contractual arrangements; and

(d) Historic patterns in voting attendance.

The consolidated financial statements present the results of the company and its subsidiaries ("the Group") as
if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between group companies are therefore
eliminated in full.

4.3 Property, plant and equipment and depreciation

All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, property,
plant and equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment
losses.

Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight line basis over
their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods and rates are as follows:

Buildings and renovation                                                           5 years to 50 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment                                                      5% - 12.5%
Motor vehicles                                                                                16% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment                                                     5% - 16.7%

Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Capital work-in-progress represents machineries
and software systems under installation and is stated at cost. Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated until
such time when the asset is available for use.
186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                          GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

4.4 Leases

Right-of-use asset

The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.

After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.

The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the
earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term, as follows:

Buildings and renovation:                                            2-3 years
- Rented buildings                                                    34 years
- Leasehold warehouse                                             25-60 years
Leasehold land                                                       2-4 years
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment                              3-5 years
Motor vehicles

4.5 Investment properties

Investment properties are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs, less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

After initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.

Freehold land has indefinite useful life and is not depreciated.

Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of the investment properties to their residual values
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal depreciation periods for the investments
properties are as follows:

Freehold building                                                 30 years
Leasehold buildings                                               43 years
Leasehold land                                                    13 years
Leasehold office                                                  27 years

4.6 Investments

(a) Subsidiaries

An investment in subsidiary, which is eliminated on consolidation, is stated in the separate financial
statements of the Company at cost less impairment loss, if any.

(b) Associate

In the separate financial statements of the Company, an investment in associate is stated at cost less any
impairment losses.
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 187

                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       4.6 Investments (continued)

               (b) Associate (continued)

                      An investment in associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
                      method of accounting.

       4.7 Intangible assets

               (a) Goodwill

                      Goodwill recognised in a business combination is an asset at the acquisition date and is initially measured
                      at cost being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling
                      interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the
                      entity over net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
                      assumed. If, after reassessment, the interest of the Group in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable
                      net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests
                      in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any),
                      the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

                      After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Goodwill
                      is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in
                      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired. Objective events that would trigger a
                      more frequent impairment review include adverse industry or economic trends, significant restructuring
                      actions, significantly lowered projections of profitability, or a sustained decline in the acquiree’s market
                      capitalisation. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill
                      relating to the entity sold.

               (b) Other intangible assets

                      Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of intangible assets recognised in a business
                      combination is their fair values as at the date of acquisition.

                      After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any
                      accumulated impairment losses.

                      Trademark

                      Acquired trademark with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
                      accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the
                      cost of trademark over its estimated useful lives of fifteen (15) years.

                      Acquired trademark with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment
                      losses.

                      Non-contractual customer relationships

                      Acquired non-contractual customer relationships have finite useful lives and are carried at cost less
                      accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated using the
                      straight line method to allocate the cost of non-contractual customer relationships over its estimated
                      useful lives of twenty (20) years.
188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       4.8 Inventories

               Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

               Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out formula. The cost of raw materials comprises all cost of purchase
               plus other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost of work-in-
               progress and finished goods includes the cost of raw materials, direct labour, other direct cost and a proportion
               of production overheads based on normal operating capacity of the production facilities.

               Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs
               of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

       4.9 Financial instruments

               At initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus,
               in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that
               are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset and liability.

               (a) Financial assets

                      When financial assets are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial
                      assets not at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL), directly attributable transaction costs.

               (b) Financial liabilities

                      Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into
                      and the definition of a financial liability.

                      Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities measured at FVTPL or financial liabilities
                      measured at amortised cost.

               (c) Hedge of net investment in foreign operation

                      Hedge of net investment in foreign operation are hedges against the exposure to exchange rate fluctuations
                      on the net asset of the Group’s foreign operations. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating
                      to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equity via other
                      comprehensive income while any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised directly
                      in profit or loss. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses
                      recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss.

               (d) Derivative financial instruments

                      Derivative financial instruments are accounted for at fair value with fair value changes recognised in the
                      statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.

                      Additionally, the Group may apply the fair value option for its third-party firm purchase commitment
                      (available under MFRS 9 as an alternative to the off-balance sheet treatment). These exemptions are
                      applied for those cocoa bean contracts where the measurement eliminates or significantly reduces an
                      accounting mismatch that would otherwise occur on own use contracts.
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 189

                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       4.9 Financial instruments (continued)

               (e) Financial guarantee contracts issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured
                      at higher of:

                      (i) the amount of the loss allowance; and
                      (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised

                              in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

       4.10 Borrowing costs

               All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

       4.11 Foreign currencies

               (a) Functional and presentation currency

                      Items included in the financial statements of each of the entities of the Group are measured using the
                      currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).
                      The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
                      functional and presentation currency.

               (b) Foreign currency translations and balances

                      Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
                      transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period
                      are translated into functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at that date. All exchange differences
                      arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of foreign currency
                      monetary assets and liabilities are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Non-monetary
                      items initially denominated in foreign currencies, which are carried at historical cost, are translated using
                      the historical rate as of the date of acquisition, and non-monetary items, which are carried at fair value
                      are translated using the exchange rate that existed when the values were determined for presentation
                      currency purposes.

               (c) Foreign operations

                      Financial statements of foreign operations are translated at end of the reporting period exchange rates
                      with respect to their assets and liabilities, and at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions with
                      respect to items reflected in profit or loss and other comprehensive income. All resulting translation
                      differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.

                      In the consolidated financial statements, exchange differences arising from the translation of net
                      investment in foreign operations are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or
                      sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in profit or loss as part of the gain
                      or loss on disposal.

                      Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of the net investment of the Company
                      in a foreign operation shall be recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the
                      Company or the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the consolidated financial statements, such exchange
                      differences shall be recognised initially as a separate component of equity and recognised in profit or loss
                      upon disposal of the net investment.
190 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
       4.11 Foreign currencies (continued)
               (c) Foreign operations (continued)
                      Goodwill and fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition of a foreign
                      operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity and translated at the exchange rate
                      ruling at the end of the reporting period.
       4.12 Revenue recognition
               Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable. The following describes the
               performance obligations in contracts with customers.
               Sale of goods
               Revenue from sale of products is recognised at a point in time when the products has been transferred to the
               customer and coincides with the delivery of products and acceptance by customers.
               There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on
               the normal credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
               Revenue recognition not in relation to performance obligations is described below:
               (a) Dividend income
                      Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established.
               (b) Rental income
                      Rental income is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term of an ongoing lease.
               (c) Management fee
                      Management fee from rendering of services is recognised when the services are rendered.
               (d) Interest income
                      Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
       4.13 Operating segments
               Operating segments are defined as components of the Group that:
               (a) Engages in business activities from which it could earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues
                      and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the Group);
               (b) Whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker of the Group in
                      making decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assessing its performance; and
               (c) For which discrete financial information is available.
            Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 191

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
       4.13 Operating segments (continued)
               An operating segment may engage in business activities for which it has yet to earn revenues.

5. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSS AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSS

       5.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year

               The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the
               Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:

Title                                                                                  Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts                                                            1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative
                                                                                       1 January 2023
  Information                                                                          1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies                               1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from     1 January 2023
                                                                                      Refer paragraph
  a Single Transaction                                                              98M of MFRS 112
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules
                                                                                       1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements                             (early adopt)

Adoption of the above Standards did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of
the Group and the Company, except for the following:

(a) Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements

The Group has early adopted Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements.
These Amendments introduce new disclosures relating to supplier finance arrangements that assist users
of the financial statements to assess the effects of these arrangements on the liabilities, cash flows and
exposure to liquidity risk of the entity.

The Group participates in a supply chain financing arrangement was disclosed in Note 23 to the financial
statements.
192 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

5. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSS AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSS (CONTINUED)

       5.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after
               1 January 2024

               The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been
               early adopted by the Group and the Company:

Title                                                                           Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback                   1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current  1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants                   1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability                                  1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
                                                                                         Deferred
  Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards and
Amendments, since the effects would only be observable for the future financial years.

6. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

       6.1 Changes in estimates

               Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
               expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

               The Directors are of the opinion that there are no significant changes in estimates at the end of the reporting
               period.

       6.2 Critical judgements made in applying accounting policies

               There are no critical judgments made by management in the process of applying the Company’s accounting
               policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

       6.3 Key sources of estimation uncertainty

               The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the
               end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
               of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

               (a) Adequacy of write down of inventories to net realisable value

                      Management focused on the valuation of inventories, in particular write down of finished goods to net
                      realisable values is mainly based on management estimates and subject to price volatility, which may
                      result in the carrying amount of inventories not stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.

               (b) Recoverability of trade receivables

                      Recoverability of trade receivables requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining
                      the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                                       Buildings and                       Plant, machineries,             Motor vehicles
                                                         renovation                       tools and equipment

Group                      Freehold    Leasehold       Owned             Right-of-        Owned            Right-of-       Owned           Right-of-       Furniture,       Capital  Total
                                 land          land         RM                   use           RM                  use          RM                 use         fittings   work-in-     RM
                                   RM            RM                                                                                                                 and   progress
                                                                             assets                            assets                          assets            office
                                                                                 RM                                RM                              RM                            RM
                                                                                                                                                          equipment
                                                                                                                                                                    RM

Cost

Balance as at 1 January    65,125,186  70,163,525      392,085,691       31,432,020 800,675,413            35,433,504      20,169,124      4,354,127      49,156,926 228,743,656 1,697,339,172
   2023                                             -     6,219,271                                         2,126,881       1,518,324        210,213
                                                    -                 -                                                 -  (1,227,752)      (646,089)
Additions                  7,191,974                -                 -  22,873,328 31,548,975                          -               -              -  6,613,277 141,039,345 219,341,588
                                                    -                 -                                                 -               -              -
Disposals                  -                        -                    - (6,653,864)                                         838,874      (838,874)     (129,442)       (125,370) (8,782,517)
                                                        23,591,969                                         16,166,647          572,975       211,123
Lease termination          -            3,212,670       21,573,398       (7,486,928)      -                 3,487,595                                     -               - (7,486,928)

Written off                -                                             -                -                                                               (2,650)         -          (2,650)

Reclassification           341,580                                       - 33,262,802                                                                     5,713,396 (79,076,394)     -

Translation differences    4,905,231                                     2,195,898 31,110,053                                                             3,059,212 21,194,459 91,522,614

Balance as at 31 December

2023                       77,563,971  73,376,195 443,470,329 49,014,318 889,943,379 57,214,627 21,871,545                                 3,290,500 64,410,719 311,775,696 1,991,931,279                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 193

Accumulated                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   depreciation
                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 DECEMBER 2023
Balance as at 1 January

2023                       -           (12,210,373) (67,509,899) (13,720,700) (352,432,443) (6,854,366) (13,301,328)                       (2,224,535) (30,474,039)       - (498,727,683)

Charge for the financial

year                       -           (2,251,798)     (10,949,508)      (10,548,710)     (43,035,728)     (3,120,073)     (2,036,324)     (651,367)      (3,288,303)     - (75,881,811)
                                                   -                 -                 -    3,939,143                  -      801,676      595,207            57,795
Disposals                  -                       -                 -                                  -              -               -                               -  - 5,393,821
                                                   -                 -     5,537,229                    -              -               -             -             552
Lease termination          -                       -                 -                 -                -              -     (335,550)               -                 -  - 5,537,229
                                                                                       -                                     (364,726)     335,550
Written off                -             (548,026)      (2,769,630)                       (11,138,853)       (662,726)                     (103,730)      (1,937,294)     -          552
                                                                          (1,062,253)
Reclassification           -                                                                                                                                              -          -

Translation differences    -                                                                                                                                              - (18,587,238)

Balance as at 31 December

2023                       -           (15,010,197) (81,229,037) (19,794,434) (402,667,881) (10,637,165) (15,236,252)                      (2,048,875) (35,641,289)       - (582,265,130)

Accumulated impairment
   losses

Balance as at 1 January

2023/31 December

2023                       -           -               -                 - (2,543,360)                          -          -               -              -               - (2,543,360)

Net carrying amount

Balance as at 31 December

2023                       77,563,971  58,365,998 362,241,292 29,219,884 484,732,138 46,577,462 6,635,293                                  1,241,625 28,769,430 311,775,696 1,407,122,789
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)                                                                                                                                                                       194 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                           Buildings and                     Plant, machineries,             Motor vehicles                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                             renovation                     tools and equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                  31 DECEMBER 2023
Group                      Freehold        Leasehold       Owned             Right-of-      Owned            Right-of-       Owned           Right-of-       Furniture,      Capital  Total
                                 land              land         RM                   use         RM                  use          RM                 use         fittings  work-in-     RM
                                   RM                RM                                                                                                               and  progress
                                                                                 assets                          assets                          assets            office
                                                                                     RM                              RM                              RM                           RM
                                                                                                                                                            equipment
                                                                                                                                                                      RM

Cost                       66,495,667      67,552,952      266,713,617       37,180,741 665,212,354          16,717,133      16,234,684      3,732,041      41,685,613 213,551,012 1,395,075,814
Balance as at 1 January                 -   1,876,562           792,260                                      18,603,577       2,894,220        579,115
                                        -               -                 -  6,256,053 17,273,727                               (341,336)                -  1,684,900 252,171,899 302,132,313
   2022                                 -               -                 -                                               -               -              -
                                        -               -        (17,000)    -              (765,997)                     -               -              -  (34,175)       (15,623) (1,157,131)
Additions                               -               -                                                                 -   1,003,601                  -
                                               734,011     117,130,307       (11,986,881)   -                             -      377,955         42,971     -              - (11,986,881)
Disposals                  (1,370,481)                        7,466,507                                          112,794
                           65,125,186                                        -              -                                                               (40,915)       (543,260)  (601,175)
Lease termination
                                        -                                    - 105,585,004                                                                  5,470,868 (229,189,780)   -
Written off                             -
                                        -                                    (17,893) 13,370,325                                                            390,635 (7,230,592) 13,876,232
Reclassification                        -
                                        -  70,163,525 392,085,691            31,432,020 800,675,413          35,433,504 20,169,124           4,354,127 49,156,926 228,743,656 1,697,339,172
Translation differences                 -
                                        -  (9,811,347) (57,389,442)          (14,006,471) (308,499,067)      (4,864,706) (11,251,070)        (1,462,096) (27,787,873)      - (435,072,072)
Balance as at 31 December
   2022                                 -  (2,054,029)     (8,310,589)       (8,054,363)    (37,926,237)     (1,996,832)     (1,801,393)     (752,411)      (2,640,604)    - (63,536,458)
                                                       -                -                -                -              -       92,526                -        30,000
Accumulated                65,125,186                  -                -                                 -              -               -             -                -  -          122,526
   depreciation                                        -                     8,292,409                                   -               -             -        33,285
                                                                     57                  -      316,900                                                                    - 8,292,409
Balance as at 1 January                      (344,997)     (1,809,925)                       (6,324,039)           7,172       (341,391)      (10,028)        (108,847)
   2022                                                                          47,725                                                                                    -          350,242

Charge for the financial                                                                                                                                                   - (8,884,330)
   year
                                           (12,210,373) (67,509,899)         (13,720,700) (352,432,443)      (6,854,366) (13,301,328)        (2,224,535) (30,474,039)      - (498,727,683)
Disposals
                                           -               -                              - (2,543,360)           -          -               -              -              - (2,543,360)          GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Lease termination                                                            17,711,320 445,699,610
                                           57,953,152 324,575,792                                            28,579,138 6,867,796            2,129,592 18,682,887 228,743,656 1,196,068,129
Written off

Translation differences

Balance as at 31 December
   2022

Accumulated impairment
   losses

Balance as at 1 January
   2022/31 December
   2022

Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 December

   2022
                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 195

                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                               31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

       (a) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and
               equipment:

                                                                   Group          2022
                                                                                    RM
                                                               2023
                                                                 RM

Additions of property, plant and equipment                     219,341,588 302,132,313
Rented right-of-use assets recognition for:
- leasehold land                                                               -    (1,876,562)
- buildings and renovation                                     (12,266,683)         (6,256,053)
- plant, machineries, tools and equipment                                         (18,603,577)
- motor vehicles                                                 (5,952,243)
Cash outflow for acquisition of property, plant and equipment       (197,951)          (579,115)
                                                                                  274,817,006
                                                               200,924,711

(b) The carrying amount of certain property, plant and equipment of the Group charged to financial institutions
       for credit facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements at the end of the
       reporting period are as follows:

                                                                   Group          2022
                                                                                    RM
                                                               2023
                                                                 RM

Freehold land                                                   10,133,293           9,350,462
Buildings and renovation - owned                                81,092,775         80,024,507
Leasehold land
Plant and machineries - owned                                        440,000            460,000
                                                               138,476,308        134,637,642
                                                               230,142,376        224,472,611
8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES                                                                                                                            196 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       Right-of-use assets
       Rights-of-use assets related to leased properties, motor vehicles and plant, machinery, tools and equipment that do not meet the definition of    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       investment property are presented as property, plant and equipment.
                                                                                                                                                       31 DECEMBER 2023
       Right-of-use assets are re-presented and analysed as follows:

Group                      Balance                                                                               Translation      Balance
Carrying amount                 as at                                                                                                 as at
                                        Additions Depreciation       Disposals Reclassification Termination difference
                           1.1.2023                                                                                           31.12.2023
                                  RM              RM  RM             RM           RM             RM              RM                      RM

Leasehold land (Note 7) 57,953,152                - (2,251,798)      -            -              - 2,664,644                  58,365,998

Buildings and              17,711,320   22,873,328 (10,548,710)      -            - (1,949,699) 1,133,645 29,219,884
  renovation (Note 7)

Plant, machineries, tools

and equipment

(Note 7)                   28,579,138    2,126,881     (3,120,073)            -   16,166,647                  -  2,824,869 46,577,462
                                            210,213       (651,367)  (50,882)        (503,324)                -    107,393 1,241,625
Motor vehicles (Note 7) 2,129,592                                    (50,882)                    (1,949,699)
                                        25,210,422    (16,571,948)                15,663,323                     6,730,551 135,404,969
                           106,373,202

                                                      Balance                                                    Translation      Balance
                                                           as at                                                                      as at
                                                                     Additions Depreciation Termination difference
                                                      1.1.2022                                                                31.12.2022
Carrying amount                                              RM      RM           RM             RM              RM                      RM

Leasehold land (Note 7)                               57,741,605      1,876,562    (2,054,029)                -  389,014 57,953,152                    GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Buildings and renovation (Note 7)                     23,174,270      6,256,053    (8,054,363)   (3,694,473)      29,833 17,711,320
Plant, machineries, tools and equipment (Note 7)      11,852,427     18,603,577    (1,996,832)
Motor vehicles (Note 7)                                                                                       -  119,966 28,579,138
                                                       2,269,945         579,115      (752,411)               -   32,943 2,129,592
                                                      95,038,247     27,315,307   (12,857,635)   (3,694,473)
                                                                                                                 571,756 106,373,202
                                                                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 197

                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                    31 DECEMBER 2023

8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
       Lease liabilities

                                                                          Group     2022
                                                                                      RM
                                                                      2023
                                                                        RM

Balance as at 1 January                                               69,989,166    59,035,410
Additions                                                             18,416,877    27,315,307
Lease payments                                                        (17,971,434)  (13,687,268)
Interest expense
Termination                                                             2,173,904     1,353,722
Translation difference                                                 (1,422,072)   (3,879,072)
Balance as at 31 December                                               5,683,612
                                                                      76,870,053        (148,933)
                                                                                    69,989,166

Represented by:                                                       13,738,659     9,552,357
Current liabilities                                                   63,131,394    60,436,809
Non-current liabilities                                               76,870,053    69,989,166
                                                                      28,579,910    25,998,179
Lease liabilities owing to financial institutions                     48,290,143    43,990,987
Lease liabilities owing to non-financial institutions                 76,870,053    69,989,166

(a) The Group has certain leases of hostel, warehouse and machineries with lease term of 12 months or less. The
       Group applies the “short-term lease” exemption for these leases.

(b) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:

                                                                          Group     2022
                                                                                      RM
                                                                      2023
                                                                        RM

Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets                            16,571,948    12,857,635
                                                                       2,173,904     1,353,722
Interest expense on lease liabilities
                                                                      10,644,446    12,080,855
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in cost of sales and  29,390,298    26,292,212
  administration expenses)
198 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

8. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
       (c) The following are total cash outflows for leases as a lessee:

                                                                              Group   2022
                                                                                        RM
                                                                          2023
                                                                            RM

Included in net cash from operating activities:                           10,644,446  12,080,855
Payment relating to short-term leases                                      2,173,904   1,353,722
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities

Included in net cash from financing activities:                           17,971,434  13,687,268
Payment of lease liabilities                                              30,789,784  27,121,845
Total cash outflow for leases

(d) The Group leases several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. These are used to
       maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. Management
       exercises judgement in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain to
       be exercised.

There is no undiscounted potential future rental payments that are not included in the lease term as at the end
of each reporting period.

(e) Weighted average incremental borrowing rates of the lease liabilities of the Group as at the end of the reporting
       period ranged from 1.05% to 8.50% (2022: 1.30% to 11.00%) per annum.
            Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 199

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES                                            Group    2022
                                                                               RM
       Cost                                                     2023
       Balance as at 1 January                                    RM
       Addition
       Translation differences                                  27,924,946   27,501,110
       Balance as at 31 December                                32,853,663                 -

       Accumulated depreciation                                     376,743      423,836
       Balance as at 1 January                                  61,155,352   27,924,946
       Charge for the financial year
       Translation differences                                  (8,352,257)  (7,182,311)
       Balance as at 31 December                                (1,031,950)  (1,021,236)

       Net carrying amount                                        (147,310)    (148,710)
       Balance as at 31 December                                (9,531,517)  (8,352,257)
       (a) The investment properties consist of the following:
                                                                51,623,835   19,572,689
               Freehold land
               Freehold building                                    Group    2022
               Leasehold buildings                                             RM
               Leasehold land                                   2023
               Leasehold office                                   RM

                                                                32,853,663                 -
                                                                 3,605,840    3,639,327
                                                                             11,553,490
                                                                11,232,558    2,948,736
                                                                 2,533,495    1,431,136
                                                                 1,398,279   19,572,689

                                                                51,623,835
200 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                       GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

9. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)

       (b) Rental income and direct operating expenses arising from investment properties during the financial year are
               as follows:

                                                                                   Group      2022
                                                                                                RM
                                                                               2023
                                                                                 RM

Rental income derived from investment properties                               2,280,737      1,694,112
                                                                                (102,069)        (99,919)
Direct operating expenses generating rental income
                                                                               2,178,668      1,594,193
Profit arising from investment properties carried at fair value net of direct
  operating expenses

(c) The fair value of the investment properties of approximately RM57,900,000 (2022: RM22,800,000) at Level
       3 was recommended by the Directors as at the end of reporting period based on comparison method that
       makes reference to recent market value of a similar property in the vicinity on a price per square feet basis.
       Any changes in the price per square feet will result in a reasonable change in the fair value of the investment
       property.

(d) Freehold building with an aggregate carrying amount of RM3,605,840 (2022: RM3,639,327) are charged
       to a financial institution for banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial
       statements.

(e) On 6 April 2023, Guan Chong Trading Sdn. Bhd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Sale
       and Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) with Bonanza Resorts Sdn. Bhd., to acquire a piece of freehold vacant land in
       Mukim Plentong, Johor Bahru, Johor for a total purchase consideration of RM31,473,910. This transaction was
       completed and has been recognised as part of investment property of the Group.

The Group as lessor

The Group had entered into non-cancellable lease agreements on certain premises and equipment with third parties.
The monthly rental consists of a fixed base rent.

The Group has aggregate future minimum lease receivable under the above non-cancellable operating leases as at
the end of each reporting period as follows:

                                                                                   Group      2022
                                                                                                RM
                                                                               2023
                                                                                 RM

Less than one (1) year                                                         2,726,996      2,881,985
One (1) to two (2) years                                                       1,228,874      2,472,927
Two (2) to three (3) years
Three (3) to four (4) years                                                      608,610        778,256
Four (4) to five (5) years                                                         88,643       381,364
                                                                                           -    222,761
                                                                                              6,737,293
                                                                               4,653,123
                                                    Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     31 DECEMBER 2023

10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS                   Goodwill     Trademark                    Non-   Total
                                                RM              RM      contractual        RM
        Group
        At 31 December 2023                                                customer
        Cost                                                          relationships
        At beginning of financial year
        Translation differences                                                      RM
        At end of financial year
                                        65,704,372   10,552,470       15,011,731         91,268,573
        Accumulated amortisation         4,866,709    1,057,899        1,112,428          7,037,036
        At beginning of financial year
        Charge for the financial year   70,571,081   11,610,369       16,124,159         98,305,609
        Translation differences
        At end of financial year        -            (5,957) (2,268,840) (2,274,797)

        Accumulated impairment loss     -            (967)            (795,217)          (796,184)
        At beginning of financial year
        Addition                        -            (279)            (212,201)          (212,480)
        At end of financial year
        Net carrying amount             -            (7,203) (3,276,258) (3,283,461)

                                        (2,575,720)                -                -    (2,575,720)
                                        (5,548,956)                -                -    (5,548,956)
                                        (8,124,676)                -                -    (8,124,676)
                                        62,446,405   11,603,166       12,847,901         86,897,472
202 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                              GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)       Goodwill     Trademark                    Non-   Total
                                                RM              RM      contractual        RM
        Group
        At 31 December 2022                                                customer
        Cost                                                          relationships
        At beginning of financial year
        Translation differences                                                      RM
        At end of financial year
                                        65,162,895   10,640,734       15,082,770         90,886,399
                                            541,477       (88,264)         (71,039)          382,174

                                        65,704,372   10,552,470       15,011,731         91,268,573

Accumulated amortisation                -            (4,760) (1,518,915) (1,523,675)
At beginning of financial year
Charge for the financial year           -            (941)            (745,962)          (746,903)
Translation differences
At end of financial year                -            (256)            (3,963)            (4,219)

                                        -            (5,957) (2,268,840) (2,274,797)

Accumulated impairment loss             (1,002,169)                -                -    (1,002,169)
At beginning of financial year          (1,573,551)                -                -    (1,573,551)
Addition                                (2,575,720)                -                -    (2,575,720)
At end of financial year                63,128,652   10,546,513       12,742,891         86,418,056
Net carrying amount

(a) Goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives has been allocated to the identified cash generating
       units (“CGU”) according to relevant operating segments based on the geographical location of customers as
       follows:

                                                                          Group          2022
                                                                                           RM
                                                                      2023
                                                                        RM

Goodwill                                                              53,197,573         49,087,880
Germany                                                                9,248,832          8,845,832
Indonesia                                                                           -     5,194,940
United States
                                                                      62,446,405         63,128,652
Trademark
Germany                                                               11,595,627         10,538,361
                                                                      74,042,032         73,667,013
                                        Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 203

                            NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         31 DECEMBER 2023

10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)

       (b) For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating divisions, which represent
               the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.

       (c) The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using cash
               flow projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period with various
               inputs, assumptions and terminal value. The following key assumptions are used to generate the financial
               budgets:

                                Group                                                               2022
                                                                                                        %
                            2023
                                %

Sales growth rates          3                                                                       3
Germany
Indonesia                   1                                                                       1
United States
                            2                                                                       2

Pre-tax discount rate       10.6                                                                    10.6
Germany                     18.1                                                                    18.1
Indonesia
United States                9.1                                                                     9.1

Germany and Indonesia CGUs

Based on the annual impairment testing undertaken by the Group, no impairment losses were required for the
carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful lives as at 31 December 2023 as their
recoverable amounts were in excess of their carrying amounts.

Management is not aware of any reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the
carrying amount of the media CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.

United States CGU

Impairment loss of RM5,548,956 (2022: RM1,573,551) was recognised to reduce the carrying amount to their
recoverable amount due to decline in operations. The impairment loss was allocated fully to goodwill, and is
recorded in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the Group.

(d) The calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the following assumptions:

(i) Sales growth rate

The forecasted sale growth rate has considered business past performance and management’s
expectations of market development.

(ii) Pre-tax discount rate

Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU. This is the
benchmark used by management to assess the operating performance of the CGUs.
204 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES          Company      2022
                                                        RM
       At cost                         2023
       Unquoted equity shares            RM
       At beginning of financial year
       Additions (Note 11(c) & (d))    217,793,614     79,828,114
       At end of financial year         44,765,000    137,965,500
                                                      217,793,614
                                       262,558,614

Accumulated impairment loss              (4,870,001)    (4,870,001)
At beginning/end of financial year     257,688,613    212,923,613
Unquoted equity shares, at cost        458,763,715
Equity loan                            716,452,328     52,274,417
                                                      265,198,030

(a) Equity loan

Equity loans to subsidiaries, which are unsecured, interest-free and the subsidiary has the unconditional right
to avoid settlement of the loan in cash, and are considered to be part of the investments of the Company in
providing the subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.

Impairment for equity loans to subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using
the forward looking expected credit loss model.

No expected credit loss is recognised arising from equity loans to subsidiaries of the Company as it is negligible.

The Directors of the Company have reassessed the nature of the amounts owing by subsidiaries and determined
that an outstanding balance amounting to RM458,763,715 (2022: RM52,274,417) shall constitute an equity
loan to subsidiaries as these amounts are unsecured, interest free and settlement is neither planned nor likely
to occur in the foreseeable future and are considered to be part of the investment of the Company providing the
subsidiaries with a long term source of additional capital.
                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 205

                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            31 DECEMBER 2023

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
       (b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                               Country of                         Effective
                               incorporation/               interest in equity Principal activities
                               Principal place
Name of companies              of business                  2023         2022
                                                              %            %

Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer  Malaysia                        100          100 Producing cocoa-derived
     Sdn. Bhd.#                Malaysia                        100                        food ingredients.
                               Malaysia                        100
Guan Chong Trading Sdn. Bhd.#                                               100 Dormant.
GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.#           Malaysia                        100          100 Manufacture, marketing

GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.#  United States of                100                        and promotion of cocoa
                                 America                       100                        related products.
GCB America, Inc ("GCBA")*                                     100          100 Manufacture of cocoa
Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.#           Malaysia                       73.86                       cake, cocoa butter, cocoa
GCB Oversea Holdings           Federal Territory of          (Direct )                    powder, cocoa mass
                                                            ***26.14                      and other related cocoa
     Corporation ("GCBOHC")^     Labuan, Malaysia           (Indirect )                   products.
GCB Cocoa Singapore Pte. Ltd.  Singapore                                    100 Investment holding.

     ("GCBCS")#                                                             100 Investment holding.
                                                                            100 Investment holding.
(i) Subsidiaries of GCBOHC
     GCB Cacao GmbH*                                                       68.11 Trading of cocoa beans,
                                                                          (Direct) cocoa-derived food
(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS                                               ***31.89 ingredients and cocoa
     PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia^                                            (Indirect) products.

     PT GCB Cocoa Indonesia^   Germany                      100          100 Dormant.

     GCB Cocoa Cote D’Ivoire   Indonesia                        90       90 Manufacture of cocoa
           ("GCBCCI")#         Indonesia                    (Direct )
                               Ivory Coast                               (Direct) butter, cocoa cake and
     Schokinag Holding GmbH    Germany                         **10
           ("SCHOKINAG")#                                   (Indirect )  **10         cocoa liquor.

                                                                90       (Indirect )
                                                            (Direct )
                                                                             90 Trading of cocoa products.
                                                               **10      (Direct )
                                                            (Indirect )
                                                                            **10
                                                               100       (Indirect )

                                                               100       100 Processing of cocoa into
                                                                                       semi-finished and
                                                                                       finished products.

                                                                         100 Investment holding.
206 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                            GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
       (b) The details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (continued)

                                Country of                                    Effective
                                incorporation/                          interest in equity Principal activities
                                Principal place
Name of companies               of business                             2023  2022
                                                                          %     %

(ii) Subsidiaries of GCBCS (continued)

GCB Cocoa UK Limited            United Kingdom                          100   100 Trading of cocoa powder
     ("GCBCUK")^
                                                                                    and chocolate and

                                                                                    manufacturing of

                                                                                    chocolate.

GCB Cocoa Trading Cote          Ivory Coast                             100   100 Trading of cocoa beans.
     D’Ivoire#

GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.*          Netherlands                             100   100 Trading of cocoa products.

(iii) Subsidiary of GCBA

Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC*         United States of                        100   100 Manufacture of cocoa
                                  America
                                                                                    ingredients.

(iv) Subsidiaries of SCHOKINAG

Schokinag Verwaltungs           Germany                                 100   100 Property holding company.
     GmbH#

Schokinag-Schokolade-           Germany                                 100   100 Production and sales of
     Industrie GmbH#
                                                                                    chocolate products.

(v) Subsidiary of GCBCUK

GCB UK Property Limited         United Kingdom                          100   100 Property management
     ("GCBUKP")^
                                                                                    company.

# Audited by BDO PLT, BDO Member Firms or BDO Alliance Firm.
^ Audited by firms other than BDO PLT and BDO Member Firms.
* Not a legal requirement to be audited, consolidated based on unaudited management accounts.
** Indirect interest held through Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
*** Indirect interest held through GCBOHC.

(c) During the financial year, the Company inject RM44,765,000 (equivalent to USD10,000,000) additional capital
       into GCBCS, thereby acquiring 73.86% equity interest. Ultimately, there is no change in equity interest held by
       the Group, whereby 26.14% owned indirectly through GCBOHC.

(d) In the previous financial year, the Company inject RM137,965,500 (equivalent to USD31,000,000) additional
       capital into GCBCS, thereby acquiring 68.11% equity interest. Ultimately, there is no change in equity interest
       held by the Group, whereby 31.89% owned indirectly through GCBOHC.
                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 207

                                                 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                              31 DECEMBER 2023

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)

       (e) In the previous financial year, the Group has acquired 100% equity interest in newly incorporated GCBUKP for
               total cash consideration of RM1,587,780 (equivalent to GBP300,000). Upon incorporation, GCBUKP became
               wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.

               The Group subscribed for an additional 5,500,000 ordinary shares in GCBCUK for a total cash consideration
               of RM28,590,100 (equivalent to GBP5,500,000). Consequently, there was no change in the effective equity
               interest held by the Group.

       (f) In the previous financial year, the Group subscribed for an additional 1,639,892 ordinary shares in a wholly
               owned subsidiary, GCBCCI for a total cash consideration of RM115,059,963 (equivalent to CFA16,398,920,000).
               Consequently, there was no change in the effective equity interest held by the Group.

       (g) The Group does not have any subsidiary that has non-controlling interests, which is individually material to the
               Group for both financial years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.

12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATE

                                                     Group         2022    Company                    2022
                                                                     RM                                 RM
                                                 2023                    2023
                                                   RM                      RM

Unquoted equity shares, at cost                  5,000,000   5,000,000   5,000,000      5,000,000
Share of post-acquisition reserves, net of
                                                  (257,449)   (510,523)              -              -
  dividends received                             4,742,551   4,489,477   5,000,000      5,000,000

(a) The details of the associate is as follows:

                               Country of                          Effective
                               incorporation/                interest in equity Principal activities
                               Principal place
Name of companies              of business                   2023  2022
                                                               %     %
SMC Food21 Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia
     ("SMC")^                                                 20    20 Production of blended
                                                                                  cocoa-derived food
                                                                                  ingredients.

^ Audited by firms other than BDO PLT.

(b) The Group does not have any associate, which is individually material to the Group for both financial years
       ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
208 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                 GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)

       (c) The Group recognised its share of results in SMC based on unaudited financial statements as at 31 December
               2023. The summarised unaudited financial information for the associate is as follows:

                                                         2023           2022
                                                           RM             RM

Assets and liabilities                                    53,200,465     49,466,297
Current assets                                            58,233,741     59,302,494
Non-current assets                                       111,434,206    108,768,791
Total assets
                                                          84,368,129     80,671,811
Current liabilities                                         6,381,698      8,677,949
Non-current liabilities
Total liabilities                                         90,749,827     89,349,760

Results                                                  173,125,347    175,888,139
Revenue                                                        968,960       (615,825)
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year                           296,410        304,875
Other comprehensive income                                                   (310,950)
                                                            1,265,370

(d) The reconciliation of net assets of the associate to the carrying amount of the investments in associate is as
       follows:

Share of net assets of the Group                               2023           2022
Goodwill                                                          RM             RM
Carrying amount in the statements of financial position
                                                         4,136,876      3,883,802
Share of results for the financial year                    605,675        605,675
Share of profit/(loss)
Share of other comprehensive income                      4,742,551      4,489,477
Share of total comprehensive income/(loss)
                                                         193,792        (123,165)
                                                          59,282          60,975
                                                                         (62,190)
                                                         253,074
                                     Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 209

                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      31 DECEMBER 2023

13. INVENTORIES

                             Group    2022
                                        RM
                         2023
                           RM

At cost                  1,169,749,916 1,053,122,713
Raw materials
Work-in-progress         19,939,528   16,240,220
Finished goods
Packaging materials      1,112,837,602 480,576,873
Stores and supplies
                         9,868,574    9,142,364
At net realisable value
Finished goods           33,405,265   30,142,483
Work-in-progress
                         2,345,800,885 1,589,224,653

                         172,338,566  -

                         6,173,488    -

                         2,524,312,939 1,589,224,653

(a) During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM4,451,774,701
       (2022: RM3,657,601,060).

(b) During the financial year, the Group had written down inventories amounted to RM19,956,939 (2022: written
       back RM285,007) in cost of sales.

(c) Inventories with carrying amounts of RM138,039,183 (2022: RM74,534,618) are held as security by way of
       floating charge for the Group’s banking facilities as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                            GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES                   Group          2022                 Company          2022
                                                                   RM                                    RM
       Non-current                            2023                                  2023
       Other receivables                        RM                                    RM
       Amounts owing by:
       - a subsidiary (interest bearing)      -                  - 388,240,401 517,248,924
       - a subsidiary (non-interest bearing)
                                              -                  -                  6,870,422          15,541,187
       Current
       Trade receivables                      -                  - 395,110,823 532,790,111
       Third parties
       Amounts owing by:                      488,281,123 433,106,532                       -                  -
       - holding company
       - an associate                                         -                  -   2,500             10,000
       - a related party                            141,946            255,240              -                  -
       - a subsidiary                               363,528            374,364              -                  -

       Less: Allowance for impairment losses                  -                  -  12,000              3,000
                                              488,786,597        433,736,136        14,500             13,000
       Other receivables                      (14,293,221)       (14,229,612)
       Sundry receivables                     474,493,376        419,506,524                -                  -
       Amounts owing by:                                                            14,500             13,000
       - a related party
       - subsidiaries (dividend receivable)   353,850,433 186,649,281               -                              -
       - subsidiaries (non-interest bearing)
                                                    190,253            190,253                    -                -
       Less: Allowance for impairment losses                  -                  -  18,000,000                     -
                                                              -                  -                     6,139,970
       Subtotal                                                                         153,486        6,139,970
       Deposits and prepayments               354,040,686        186,839,534        18,153,486                     -
       Deposits                                 (5,190,339)        (3,776,879)                         6,139,970
       Prepayments                                                                                -    6,152,970
                                              348,850,347        183,062,655        18,153,486
       Grand total                            823,343,723        602,569,179        18,167,986

                                               10,594,016         10,193,929                12,000             12,000
                                               16,089,813         11,981,328                        -                  -
                                               26,683,829         22,175,257
                                              850,027,552        624,744,436                12,000             12,000
                                              850,027,552        624,744,436         18,179,986           6,164,970
                                                                                    413,290,809        538,955,081
                                  Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 211

                      NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                   31 DECEMBER 2023

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)

       (a) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group ranged
               from 30 days to 180 days (2022: 30 days to 180 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts
               which represent their fair value on initial recognition.

       (b) Non-current and non-trade amounts owing by a subsidiary amounted to RM388,240,401 (2022: RM517,248,924)
               are unsecured and analysed as follows:

               (i) RM173,131,863 (2022: RM165,587,990) that bears interest at rate of 3.1% (2022: 3.1%) per annum.

               (ii) RM115,108,538 that bears interest at rate of 5.13% per annum.

               (iii) RM100,000,000 that bears interest at rate of 5.3% per annum.

               (iv) In the previous financial year, RM351,660,934 that bears interest at rate of 3.9% per annum.

       (c) Current and non-trade amounts owing by subsidiaries are unsecured, interest-free and receivable within the
               next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.

       (d) The currency exposure profile of trade and other receivables (excluding deposits and prepayments) is as
               follows, comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:

                          Group          2022              Company          2022
                                           RM                                 RM
                      2023                               2023
                        RM                                 RM

United States Dollar  317,187,875        194,848,276     174,481,899        171,635,790
British Pound         217,799,419        199,937,299                     -                  -
CFA Franc             139,293,008                                        -                  -
Euro                                      38,288,009                     -                  -
Indonesian Rupiah      89,183,880         90,937,274                     -                  -
Ringgit Malaysia       45,998,487         37,393,573
Chinese Yuan           13,435,354         12,792,453     238,796,910        367,307,291
Singapore Dollar                          27,206,907                     -                  -
Others                                -                                  -                  -
                              26,260             95,294                  -                  -
                            419,440         1,070,094
                      823,343,723        602,569,179     413,278,809        538,943,081

(e) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on
       the simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses (“ECL”). Loss rates are based on actual credit
       loss experience over past years.

During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking
information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of customers to settle the receivables and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables.

Individual assessment of impairment of trade receivables are separate assessed when it is probable that cash
due will not be received in full.

It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade
receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
212 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
       (f) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables of the Group and of the Company are as follows:

Group                                       Gross  Lifetime                 Net
As at 31 December 2023                  carrying         ECL         carrying
                                         amount           RM         amount
Not past due
Past due:                                      RM                           RM
1 to 30 days
31 to 60 days                      355,542,865     (12,256) 355,530,609
61 to 90 days
Over 90 days                        95,296,198             (1,147)    95,295,051
                                    16,824,655         (129,199)      16,695,456
Individual assessment
                                      4,357,852          (41,689)       4,316,163
                                      2,656,097                   -     2,656,097
                                   119,134,802                       118,962,767
                                    14,108,930         (172,035)
                                   488,786,597     (14,108,930)                      -
                                                   (14,293,221)      474,493,376

As at 31 December 2022             284,695,369     (109,733) 284,585,636
Not past due
Past due:                           93,308,115           (12,784)     93,295,331
1 to 30 days                        22,422,995         (353,073)      22,069,922
31 to 60 days                       15,425,903         (111,161)      15,314,742
61 to 90 days                                          (662,872)
Over 90 days                          4,903,765     (1,139,890)         4,240,893
                                   136,060,778     (12,979,989)      134,920,888
Individual assessment                              (14,229,612)
                                    12,979,989                                       -
                                   433,736,136                       419,506,524

Company                            14,500          -                 14,500
As at 31 December 2023                     -
Not past due                                       -                                                               -
Individual assessment              14,500

                                                   -                 14,500

As at 31 December 2022             13,000          -                 13,000
Not past due                               -
Individual assessment                              -                                                               -
                                   13,000
                                                   -                 13,000

During the financial year, the Group and the Company did not renegotiate the terms of any trade receivables.
These receivables are not secured by any collateral.
                                                       Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 213

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                        31 DECEMBER 2023

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)

       (g) Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the
               forward looking expected credit loss model.

               The Group and the Company defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the
               receivables, changes to contractual terms, payment delays and past due information.

       (h) Trade and other receivables that are past due and impaired at the end of the reporting period and the
               reconciliation of movements in allowance for impairment accounts is as follows:

                                               Group        2022             Company  2022
                                                              RM                        RM
                                           2023                            2023
                                             RM                              RM

Trade receivables                          14,229,612       23,697,767     -          -
At 1 January                                   498,566        2,297,072
Charge for the financial year                                (1,746,844)   -          -
Reversal                                   (1,069,972)
Written off                                              -  (10,403,435)   -          -
Translation differences                                          385,052
At 31 December                                 635,015                     -          -
Other receivables (individually impaired)  14,293,221       14,229,612
At 1 January                                                               -          -
Addition
Translation differences                                                    -          -
At 31 December
                                           3,776,879        3,583,304      -          -
                                           1,241,392                    -
                                                                           -          -
                                             172,068          193,575
                                           5,190,339        3,776,879      -          -

                                                                           -          -

(i) The Group sold certain trade receivables to a financial institution with non-recourse conditions for cash
       proceeds. These trade receivables have been derecognised from the statements of financial position because
       the Group transferred substantially all the risks and rewards - primarily credit risk.

The following information shows the carrying amount of trade receivables at the reporting date that have been
sold with non-recourse arrangement and derecognised from trade receivables:

                                                                               Group  2022
                                                                                        RM
                                                                           2023
                                                                             RM

Carrying amount of trade receivables sold with non-recourse arrangement    140,521,819 118,078,321

(j) Included in other receivables of the Group is an amount due from brokers of RM162,251,093 (2022: RM92,910,289)
       includes margin accounts which represents cash deposits held with brokers as collateral against open future
       contracts.

(k) Information on financial risks of trade and other receivables is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
214 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                    GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

15. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

                                                              Contract/     Assets           Liabilities
                                                                Notional         RM                    RM
                                                           amount Net
                                                           (short )/long

                                                                        RM

2023                                                       (661,436,442)    50,556,339       (122,863,220)
Group                                                      232,205,484      31,325,396        (67,922,563)
Commodity futures contracts (Note a)                       316,058,557                        (19,568,203)
Commodity option contracts (Note a)                        195,773,386                    -        (995,127)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b)                                          820,162
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c)
Firm purchase commitments denominated in foreign currency  1,544,567,320    383,852,125                       -
                                                           1,627,168,305    466,554,022      (211,349,113)
  (Note a)

2022                                                       (632,615,682)    42,934,262       (71,838,842)
Group                                                      222,087,598       3,877,713       (13,875,974)
Commodity futures contracts (Note a)                       302,333,941                    -
Commodity option contracts (Note a)                        232,901,550       8,578,504        (4,099,256)
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b)                     124,707,407                        (2,098,604)
Foreign currency forward contracts (Note c)                                 55,390,479       (91,912,676)

2023                                                       316,058,557      - (19,568,203)
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b)

2022                                                       302,333,941      -                (4,099,256)
Company
Cross currency swap contracts (Note b)

(a) Commodity futures or option contracts and firm purchase commitments denominated in foreign currency

The Group uses commodity futures contracts, commodity options contracts and firm purchase commitments
denominated in foreign currency to manage open sales and purchase commitments and movements in cocoa
bean prices in the respective commodity markets. These contracts are not designated as cash flow or fair value
hedges and are entered into for periods consistent with fair value changes exposure.
                                                                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 215

                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

15. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

       (b) Cross currency swap contracts

               The cross currency swap contracts of the Group and of the Company are as follows:

               (i) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM200,000,000 liability to a fixed rate
                      of USD49,140,049 liability (“USDRM CCS1”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
                      December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liabilities in respect of the USDRM
                      CCS1 as at the end of the financial year is RM13,978,230 (2022: derivative liabilities of RM2,701,314); and

               (ii) Cross currency swap contract, which swapped a fixed rate of RM80,000,000 liability to a fixed rate of
                      USD19,728,730 liability (“USDRM CCS2”). The effective period for this cross currency swap is from
                      December 2020 to December 2027. The carrying amount of derivative liabilities in respect of the USDRM
                      CCS2 as at the end of the financial year is RM5,589,973 (2022: derivative liabilities of RM1,397,942).

               The Group entered into cross currency swap contracts to serve as a net investment hedge against the Group’s
               USD denominated assets arising from its investments in foreign subsidiaries whose net assets are exposed to
               currency translation risks and which are held for long term investment purposes.

       (c) Foreign currency forward or option contracts

               The Group uses forward currency contracts and forward currency option contracts to hedge the Group’s sales
               and purchases denominated in foreign currencies for which firm commitments existed at the reporting period.
               The forward currency contracts have maturity dates that coincide with the expected occurrence of these
               transactions. The fair value of these components has been determined based on the difference between the
               contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as applicable to a contract of similar amount and maturity
               profile at the end of the reporting period.

               As at the end of the reporting period, the settlements dates for foreign currency forward contracts range from
               1 to 6 months (2022: 1 to 6 months).

       (d) During the financial year, the Group recognised a total net fair value gain of RM291,727,106 (2022: net fair
               value loss of RM42,708,372) and the Company recognised a total fair value loss of RM15,468,947 (2022: fair
               value gain of RM6,505,921) arising from fair value changes of derivative financial instruments. The fair value
               changes are attributable to changes in foreign exchange spot and forward rates, and difference between cocoa
               bean contracted price and market price. The method and assumptions applied in determining the fair value of
               derivatives are disclosed in Note 35(c) to the financial statements.
216 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                                            GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

15. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
       (e) The currency exposure profile of derivative financial assets/liabilities is as follows:

                                  Group         2022                                                  Company  2022
                                                  RM                                                             RM
                              2023                                                                  2023
                                RM                                                                    RM

Derivative financial assets    66,768,129       30,490,039                                          -          -
United States Dollar           15,927,570       24,732,394
British Pound                 383,852,125                                                           -          -
Euro                                                          -
Others                                 6,198        168,046                                         -          -
                              466,554,022       55,390,479
                                                                                                    -          -

                                                                                                    -          -

Derivative financial          (147,847,985)     (52,465,329)     (19,568,203)                          (4,099,256)
Liabilities                    (63,491,157)     (39,444,035)                    -                                   -
United States Dollar                   (9,971)                                  -                                   -
British Pound                                           (3,312)
Others                        (211,349,113)     (91,912,676)     (19,568,203)                          (4,099,256)

(f) Information on financial risks of derivative financial assets/liabilities is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
       statements.

16. CASH AND BANK BALANCES

                                  Group         2022                                                  Company  2022
                                                  RM                                                             RM
                              2023                                                                  2023
                                RM                                                                    RM

Cash and bank balances        54,197,539        47,263,462           288,471                                     557,977
Deposits with licensed banks  30,896,942        21,847,367       13,988,800                                    6,018,800
                              85,094,481        69,110,829       14,277,271                                    6,576,777

(a) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group have maturity period ranging from six months to twelve months,
       except for deposits pledged to licensed banks which have maturity period of twelve months (2022: twelve
       months).

(b) As at the end of reporting period, the deposits placed with licensed banks of the Group amounting to
       RM15,007,822 (2022: RM14,298,801) has been charged to financial institutions as security for credit facilities
       granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
                                                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 217

                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    31 DECEMBER 2023

16. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONTINUED)

       (c) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows, comparatives have been restated to
               conform with current year’s presentation:

                                           Group     2022            Company        2022
                                                       RM                             RM
                                       2023                        2023
                                         RM                          RM

United States Dollar                   23,225,136    26,436,652          32,830         32,388
British Pound                          21,330,643    10,899,263                  -              -
Ringgit Malaysia                       17,950,804    12,640,193
Euro                                   11,004,701                  14,244,441       6,544,389
Indonesian Rupiah                                     7,905,449                  -              -
CFA Franc                               7,525,278     4,569,159                  -              -
Singapore Dollar                        3,339,113     5,380,961                  -              -
Others                                                1,237,183                  -              -
                                           669,023                               -              -
                                             49,783        41,969
                                                     69,110,829    14,277,271       6,576,777
                                       85,094,481

(d) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the
       end of the reporting period:

                                           Group     2022            Company        2022
                                                       RM                             RM
                                       2023                        2023
                                         RM                          RM

Cash and bank balances                 54,197,539    47,263,462        288,471        557,977
Deposits with licensed banks           30,896,942    21,847,367    13,988,800       6,018,800
                                       85,094,481    69,110,829    14,277,271       6,576,777
Less: Deposits pledged                 (15,007,822)  (14,298,801)
Less: Deposits tenure more than three                                            -              -

  			(3) months                        (15,889,120)  (7,548,566)   (13,988,800)     (6,018,800)
                                       54,197,539    47,263,462         288,471        557,977

(e) No expected credit losses are recognised arising from the deposits with financial institutions because the
       probability of default by these financial institutions are negligible.

(f) Information on financial risks of cash and bank balances is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
218 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                                  GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

17. SHARE CAPITAL                                                      Group and Company

       Issued and fully paid up ordinary shares  2023                                     2022
          with no par value
                                                 Number of                      Number of
       At beginning of financial year
                                                 shares                RM       shares                RM

                                                 1,174,914,924 495,237,253 1,054,806,783 297,058,820

Issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to:                            -                  - 120,108,141  198,178,433
- Warrant exercised                              1,174,914,924         495,237,253 1,174,914,924      495,237,253
At end of financial year

(a) In the previous financial year, the issued and fully paid-up ordinary share capital of the Company was increased
       from 1,054,806,783 to 1,174,914,924 ordinary shares by way of issuance of 120,108,141 new ordinary shares
       pursuant to 120,108,141 warrants exercised at an exercise price of RM1.65 each for cash.

The newly issued ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company.

(b) The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are
       entitled to one (1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with
       regard to the residual assets of the Company.

18. TREASURY SHARES

                                                                       Group and Company

                                                 2023                                     2022

                                                 Number of                      Number of

                                                 shares                RM       shares                RM

Ordinary shares                                  400,000               720,042  400,000               720,042

At beginning of financial year/At end of
  financial year

The shareholders of the Company have approved the Company’s plan to repurchase up to 10% of the issued and
paid-up share capital of the Company (“Share Buy Back”). The Directors of the Company are committed to enhance
the value of the Company to its shareholders and believe that the Share Buy Back can be applied in the best interests
of the Company and its shareholders.
                                                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 219

                                             NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                          31 DECEMBER 2023

19. RESERVES                                               Group  2022           Company              2022
                                                                    RM                                  RM
       Non-distributable                               2023                    2023
       Foreign currency translation reserve              RM                      RM
       Hedging reserve
                                             112,055,854          59,919,506   -                      -
                                             (19,669,935)         (4,226,324)
                                                                               -                      -

Distributable                                1,165,871,333 1,088,344,927       2,366,043  17,114,590
Retained earnings                            1,258,257,252 1,144,038,109       2,366,043  17,114,590

(a) The movements in each category of reserves are disclosed in the statements of changes in equity.

(b) Foreign currency translation reserve

The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from
the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from
that of the presentation currency of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from
monetary items, which form part of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary
item is denominated in either the functional currency of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.

(c) Hedging reserve

The hedging reserve arising from changes in the fair value relating to the effective portion on the hedge of net
investments in foreign operations.

(d) Warrants

On 12 November 2019, the Company issued 168,022,058 free warrants on the basis of one (1) warrant for
every three (3) existing ordinary shares held in the Company. The warrants were listed on the Main Market of
Bursa Malaysia Securities on 12 November 2019.

The warrant issued are constituted by a Deed Poll dated 14 October 2019.

The salient features of the warrants were as follows:

(i) Each warrants entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe for one
       new ordinary shares in the Company at an exercise price of RM1.65.

(ii) The warrants shall be exercisable at any time within the period commencing from and inclusive the date
       of issue of the warrants and ending on the date immediately preceding the third (3rd) anniversary of the
       date of issue, or if such day is not a Market day, then it shall be the Market Day immediately preceding the
       said non-Market Day.
220 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)

       (d) Warrants (continued)

               The salient features of the warrants were as follows: (continued)

               (iii) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the warrants shall, upon issue and
                      allotment, be of the same class and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares, save
                      and except that such new ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/
                      or other distributions, at the entitlement date of which is prior to the date of the allotment of these new
                      ordinary shares.

               (iv) Any warrants not exercised during the exercise period will lapse and cease to be valid.

               (v) Movements in the Warrants since the listing and quotation thereof are as follows:

As of 12 November 2019               Number of
Exercised in financial year 2019       Warrants
Exercised in financial year 2020
Exercised in financial year 2021   168,022,058
Exercised in financial year 2022           (17,966)
As of 4 November 2022
                                    (25,957,028)
                                    (20,498,885)
                                   (120,108,141)

                                       1,440,038

In the previous financial year, 120,108,141 warrants were exercised and converted to ordinary shares and
remaining unexercised warrants were expired and ceased to be valid.  
                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 221

                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                            31 DECEMBER 2023

20. BORROWINGS                                     Group               2022           Company          2022
                                                                         RM                              RM
       Short term borrowings                   2023                                 2023
       Secured:                                  RM                                   RM
       Revolving credits
       Term loans                              179,834,266 118,261,291              -                  -
       Trade loans
                                               21,430,643     27,919,416            -                  -

                              1,332,568,357 650,176,699                             -                  -

                              1,533,833,266 796,357,406                             -                  -

Long term borrowings                           47,999,908     64,396,970            -                  -
Secured:
Term loans                                     600,000,000    300,000,000           600,000,000        300,000,000
Unsecured:                                     647,999,908    364,396,970           600,000,000        300,000,000
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b))

Total borrowings                               179,834,266 118,261,291                              -                  -
Revolving credits                                                                   600,000,000        300,000,000
Sukuk Wakalah (Note (b))                       600,000,000 300,000,000
Term loans                                                                                          -                  -
Trade loans                                    69,430,551     92,316,386                            -                  -
                                                                                    600,000,000        300,000,000
                              1,332,568,357 650,176,699

                              2,181,833,174 1,160,754,376

(a) The revolving credits, term loans and trade loans of the Group are secured by:

(i) Corporate guarantee from the Company;

(ii) A legal charges over certain property, plant and equipment (Note 7(b)), and investment properties (Note
       9(d)) of the Group;

(iii) A floating charge over a subsidiary’s inventories (Note 13(c));

(iv) A fixed and floating charge over a subsidiary’s assets;

(v) Deposits pledged with licensed banks of the Group (Note 16(b)); and

(vi) Negative pledge by certain subsidiaries.
222 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

20. BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)

       (b) The Sukuk Wakalah are issued under Islamic medium term notes (“Sukuk Wakalah”) programme of up to
               RM800,000,000 in nominal value under the Shariah principle of Wakalah Bi Al-Istithmar (“Sukuk Wakalah
               Programme”). The Sukuk Wakalah Programme has a tenure of twenty (20) years from 3 December 2020. The
               tenure of each issuance of Sukuk Wakalah shall be more than one (1) year and up to twenty (20) years, provided
               that the Sukuk Wakalah matures on or prior to the expiry of the Sukuk Wakalah Programme.

               The proceeds raised from the issuance of the Sukuk Wakalah shall be utilised to finance its general working
               capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future financing and other
               general corporate purposes and/or to provide advance via Shariah-compliant manner to its subsidiaries for
               general working capital, capital expenditure, refinancing of existing financing/borrowings and/or future
               financing and other general corporate purposes.

               On 3 December 2020, the Company completed an issuance of Sukuk Wakalah of RM300,000,000 in notional
               value (“First Issuance”) with a tenure of seven (7) years from the date of issuance and due for repayment in
               December 2027. The Sukuk Wakalah under the First Issuance bears a profit rate of 3.84% per annum and
               payable semi-annually.

               On 30 January 2023, the Company completed an issuance of Sukuk Wakalah of RM300,000,000 in notional
               value (“Second Issuance”) with a tenure of five (5) and seven (7) years from the date of issuance and due for
               repayment in January 2028 and January 2030. The Sukuk Wakalah under the Second Issuance bears a profit
               rate of 5.07% and 5.24% per annum and payable semi-annually.

       (c) The currency exposure profile of borrowings is as follows:

                          Group    2022              Company          2022
                                     RM                                 RM
                      2023                         2023
                        RM                           RM

United States Dollar    905,018,094 461,690,105                    -                  -
Ringgit Malaysia        600,958,904 301,370,337    600,000,000        300,000,000
British Pound           463,615,217 227,053,801
Euro                    212,240,959 170,640,133                    -                  -
                      2,181,833,174 1,160,754,376                  -                  -
                                                   600,000,000        300,000,000

(d) Information on financial risks of borrowings and their remaining maturity is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
       statements.
                                                      Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 223

                                          NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                       31 DECEMBER 2023

21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS)                                                 Group       2022
       (a) The deferred tax assets and liabilities are made up of the following:                    RM
                                                                                  2023
               Balance as at 1 January                                              RM
               Recognised in profit or loss (Note 27)
               Recognised in other comprehensive income                           73,378,956      73,357,752
               Translation differences                                             2,400,657         (781,597)
               Balance as at 31 December                                                25,605         (24,708)
                                                                                   2,833,983          827,509

                                                                                  78,639,201      73,378,956

Reflected in the statements of financial position as follow:                      80,257,176      74,995,859
Deferred tax liabilities                                                          (1,617,975)     (1,616,903)
Deferred tax assets                                                               78,639,201      73,378,956
Balance as at 31 December

(b) The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting
       are as follows:

Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) of the Group

Balance as at 1 January 2023                                     Property,                Other           Total
Recognised in profit or loss                                     plant and        temporary                  RM
Recognised in other comprehensive income                       equipment          differences
Translation differences                                                                           73,378,956
Balance as at 31 December 2023                                            RM                  RM   2,400,657
                                                                                                        25,605
                                                               91,163,354         (17,784,398)     2,833,983
                                                                 5,594,067         (3,193,410)
                                                                              -          25,605   78,639,201
                                                                 3,580,030            (746,047)

                                                              100,337,451         (21,698,250)

Balance as at 1 January 2022                                  87,009,827          (13,652,075)    73,357,752
Recognised in profit or loss                                   3,316,000           (4,097,597)       (781,597)
Recognised in other comprehensive income                                    -           (24,708)       (24,708)
Translation differences                                           837,527               (10,018)      827,509
Balance as at 31 December 2022
                                                              91,163,354          (17,784,398)    73,378,956
224 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                      GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES/(ASSETS) (CONTINUED)

       (c) The amount of temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised in the statements of
               financial position are as follows:

                                   Group     2022               Company      2022
                                               RM                              RM
                               2023                           2023
                                 RM                             RM

Unused tax losses              39,568,000    24,961,000                   -              -
- No expiry date                1,483,000     1,539,000       1,155,000      1,211,000
- Expires by 31 December 2028        11,000                -
- Expires by 31 December 2033                                             -              -
Unabsorbed capital allowances
- No expiry date               20,675,000     5,772,000                   -              -
                               61,737,000    32,272,000       1,155,000      1,211,000

Deferred tax assets of the Company and certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items
as it is not probable that taxable profits would be available against which the deductible temporary differences
could be utilised.

The amount and availability of these items to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed above are
subject to the agreement of the respective local and foreign tax authorities.

During the 2024 Budget Announcement on 13 October 2023, the Minister of Finance announced that the Global
Minimum Tax (“GMT”) would be implemented in Malaysia. On 29 December 2023, the parliament has gazetted
the GMT legislation via the Finance Act (No. 2) 2023 and the said rules will come into effect from financial years
beginning on or after 1 January 2025. GMT shall apply if a group has annual revenue of seven hundred and
fifty million euro or more as specified in the consolidated financial statements of the Ultimate Parent Entity
(“UPE”) in at least two of the four consecutive financial years immediately preceding tested financial year. The
assessment need to be carried out for each tested financial year to determine whether the group is within the
scope or not. Based on the past years annual revenue recorded in the consolidated financial statements of the
UPE, the Group is within the scope of the enacted GMT legislation for financial year 2025. However, the Group
applies the exception to recognise and disclose information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to
GMT.

Under the GMT legislation, the Group is liable to pay top-up tax for the difference between the minimum
rate of 15% and the Group’s jurisdictional effective tax rate determined under the GMT rules (GloBE ETR)
for each jurisdiction where the Group has operation therein. Due to uncertainties surrounding when and how
each jurisdiction will enact the legislations, the quantitative impact of the enacted or substantively enacted
legislation is not yet reasonably estimable. The Group is currently working with tax specialists to assess the
impact of the GMT legislation on the Group.
                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 225

                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                               31 DECEMBER 2023

22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS

       (a) Certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group in Indonesia operate an unfunded defined benefits retirement plan
               required under the Labour Laws of that country in which they operate. The Group is required to pay their
               employees termination, appreciation and compensation benefits in case of employment dismissal based on the
               employees’ number of years of services provided.

       (b) Under the plan, all of the eligible permanent employees of the certain foreign subsidiaries of the Group
               are entitled to retirement benefits based on last drawn final salary and length of service attainment of the
               retirement age of 55.

       (c) The amounts recognised in the statements of financial position are determined as follows:

        Group                                                                       2023         2022
        Present value of defined benefit obligations                                   RM           RM
        Analysed as follows:
        Non-current liabilities                                               3,073,841    2,720,110

(d) The following table sets out the reconciliation of defined benefit plan:  3,073,841    2,720,110

Group                                                                               2023         2022
                                                                                       RM           RM
Balance as at 1 January
Current service costs                                                         2,720,110    3,215,651
Interest costs                                                                  506,973      504,347
Past service costs - vested                                                     196,685      146,577
Translation differences                                                          (34,435)   (805,436)
Included in profit or loss                                                        62,186    (299,523)
                                                                                731,409     (454,035)

Remeasurement:                                                                 (116,392)     112,316
Effects of experience adjustment                                                125,136      175,302
Translation differences                                                                      287,618
                                                                                    8,744   (329,124)
Benefits paid                                                                  (386,422)   2,720,110
Balance as at 31 December                                                     3,073,841
226 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                              GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

22. RETIREMENT BENEFITS OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)
       (e) The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

                                                                          Group   2022
                                                                      2023

Retirement age                                                        55 years    55 years
Discount rate                                                            6.66%       7.21%
Expected rate of salary increases                                        8.00%       8.00%

(f) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if the significant actuarial assumptions
       at the end of each reporting period changed by one hundred (100) basis points with all other variables held
       constant:

                                                                      Group 2023

                                                                      Increase   Decrease
                                                                             RM           RM

Discount rate                                                         (255,663)   295,499
Present value of defined benefit obligation                            (41,265)    49,172
Current service cost

Salary increment rate                                                 288,724     (254,938)
Present value of defined benefit obligation                            48,034      (41,142)
Current service cost
                                                                      Group 2022
Discount rate
Present value of defined benefit obligation                           Increase   Decrease
Current service cost                                                         RM           RM

                                                                      (204,065)   234,944
                                                                       (33,548)    39,401

Salary increment rate                                                 230,769     (204,394)
Present value of defined benefit obligation                            38,676      (33,575)
Current service cost
                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 227

                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                               31 DECEMBER 2023

23. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES          Group             2022                 Company        2022
                                                          RM                                  RM
       Trade payables             2023                                     2023
       Third parties                RM                                       RM

                                  975,373,331 501,046,295                  -                -

Other payables                        87,021,150         52,773,581                      -              -
Other payables                        81,485,257         55,466,753         7,865,580       1,442,133
Accruals
Deposits received                       2,572,112          2,337,225                     -              -
Dividend payable                      23,490,298                        -  23,490,298                   -
Provision for onerous contract        11,674,056                        -                               -
Amounts owing to a related party                                                         -              -
Amount owing to a subsidiary                         -              878                  -      10,470
                                                     -                  -      261,475      1,452,603
                                    206,242,873                            31,617,353       1,452,603
                                  1,181,616,204         110,578,437        31,617,353
                                                        611,624,732

(a) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group ranged from
       30 days to 60 days (2022: 30 days to 60 days).

(b) The currency exposure profile of trade and other payables are as follows, comparatives have been restated to
       conform with current year’s presentation:

                                      Group             2022                 Company        2022
                                                          RM                                  RM
                                  2023                                     2023
                                    RM                                       RM

United States Dollar                552,891,709         304,102,204                      -              -
British Pound                       321,096,260         100,252,401                      -              -
Euro                                127,846,002         129,921,426                      -              -
Ringgit Malaysia                                                           31,617,353       1,452,603
CFA Franc                             89,124,597         41,245,979                      -              -
Singapore Dollar                      71,382,811         24,410,734                      -              -
Indonesian Rupiah                                                                        -              -
Others                                  8,356,175          4,653,006                     -              -
                                        6,599,806          6,943,238       31,617,353       1,452,603
                                        4,318,844
                                  1,181,616,204                 95,744
                                                        611,624,732
228 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                      GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

23. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONTINUED)

       (c) The Group participates in a supply chain financing arrangement (‘SCF’), for which its suppliers may elect to
               receive early payment of their invoice from a bank by factoring their receivable from the Group. Under the
               arrangement, a bank agrees to pay amounts to a participating supplier in respect of invoices owed by the Group
               and receives settlement from the Group at a later date. The principal purpose of this arrangement is to facilitate
               efficient payment processing and enable the willing suppliers to sell their receivables due from the Group to a
               bank before their due date.

               The Group has not derecognised the original liabilities to which the arrangement applies because neither a legal
               release was obtained nor the original liability was substantially modified on entering into the arrangement.
               From the perspective of the Group, the arrangement does not significantly extend payment terms beyond the
               normal terms agreed with other suppliers that are not participating. The Group does not incur any additional
               interest towards the bank on the amounts due to the suppliers. The Group therefore discloses the amounts
               factored by suppliers within trade payables because the nature and function of the financial liability remain the
               same as those of other trade payables but discloses disaggregated amounts in the notes. All payables under
               the SCF are classified as current as at 31 December 2023.

                                                 Total SCF    Not yet paid        Paid by
                                                       trade     by finance       finance
                                                                   provider      provider
                                                  payables                 RM
                                                          RM                            RM

Group                                            225,954,533  24,692,287 201,262,246
At 31 December 2023

Range of payment due dates (after invoice date)                           Trade    Comparable
At 31 December 2023                                           payables that                  trade

                                                                  are part of    payables that
                                                                       the SCF     are not part
                                                                                      of the SCF

                                                              150 days 30 - 60 days

The payments to the bank are included within operating cash flows because they continue to be part of
the normal operating cycle of the Group and their principal nature remains operating – i.e payments for the
purchased goods and services. The payments to a supplier by the bank are considered non-cash transactions
and amount to RM201,262,246 (2022: N/A).

(d) Information on financial risks of trade and other payables is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
                                                               Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 229

                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                31 DECEMBER 2023

24. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS                                                                                Group  2022
                                                                                                                RM
       Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:                2023
       Approved but not contracted for                                                               RM
       Contracted but not provided for
                                                                                                      -     129,646,000
                                                                                        78,346,000          104,292,000
                                                                                        78,346,000          233,938,000

25. REVENUE                                                  Group       2022                        Company  2022
                                                                           RM                                   RM
       Revenue from contracts with customers             2023                                      2023
       - Sale of goods                                     RM                                        RM

                                                   5,319,605,094 4,419,609,584                     -          -

Other revenue                                                   -                    -  18,000,000            47,916,000
- Dividend income from subsidiaries                                                     28,407,364            13,895,755
- Interest income                                  1,236,154        229,340
- Management fees                                                                             58,000                58,000
                                                                -                    -  46,465,364            61,869,755

                                                   5,320,841,248 4,419,838,924

Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers

Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by primary geographical market, major
products and service lines and timing of revenue recognition.

Major product and service line/Timing of revenue recognition
Sales of goods/Transferred at point in time

                  Malaysia           Singapore     Indonesia       Germany Ivory Coast             Others     Total
                          RM                   RM           RM                                          RM      RM
                                                                    RM                  RM

31 December 2023  1,494,284,440 2,128,126,241 311,682,938 1,294,773,727                 49,130     91,924,772 5,320,841,248
31 December 2022  1,196,625,760 1,771,095,850 319,558,324 1,045,031,221                         -  87,527,769 4,419,838,924
230 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

26. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
       Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:

                                            Group       2022              Company                             2022
                                                          RM                                                    RM
                                        2023                            2023
                                          RM                              RM

After charging:                         1,170,924       984,799         119,000                               113,000
Auditors’ remuneration                      11,539                -               -                                     -
- statutory audit fees
- under provision in prior year           656,880          7,086           5,000                                 5,000
- non-audit fees
Interest expense:                          7,797,326     5,339,337                    -                                     -
- bank commission                               19,870          2,623                 -                                     -
- bank overdraft                                11,687          1,060                 -                                     -
- hire purchase                                                                       -                                     -
- lease liabilities                        2,831,496     1,381,372                    -                                     -
- receivable financing                   14,024,213      1,433,559                    -                                     -
- revolving credit                                                                    -                                     -
- term loans                               1,283,800        191,674                   -                                     -
- trade loans                              5,416,483     3,713,159      25,713,904                            11,520,000
- Sukuk Wakalah                          88,440,804     32,460,996      25,713,904                            11,520,000
                                         25,713,904     11,520,000
Loss on disposal of property plant and  145,539,583     56,043,780
  equipment
                                        508,060         92,329                                             -  -
And after crediting:
                                                     -               -  (1,000,000)                           (1,000,000)
Bad debt recovered                        (936,693)     (5,822,059)                  -                                     -
Insurance claim income                  (2,356,278)
Interest income                                           (456,521)     (1,236,154)                             (229,339)
                                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 231

                                              NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                           31 DECEMBER 2023

27. TAX EXPENSE                                   Group    2022            Company      2022
                                                             RM                           RM
       Current tax expense                    2023                       2023
       - Malaysia income tax                    RM                         RM
       - Foreign income tax
       Under/(Over) provision in prior years  12,908,062   36,335,868    2,569,331      1,350,000
       - Malaysia income tax                  22,023,343    6,947,370                -              -
       - Foreign income tax                   34,931,405
                                                           43,283,238    2,569,331      1,350,000

                                                  392,120  (2,107,626)       73,730     (1,725,278)
                                                  407,787      276,964               -               -
                                                  799,907
                                              35,731,312   (1,830,662)       73,730     (1,725,278)
                                                           41,452,576    2,643,061        (375,278)

Deferred tax (Note 21)                         1,218,920       139,307               -             -
                                               1,181,737      (920,904)              -             -
- Relating to origination and reversal of      2,400,657      (781,597)              -             -
     temporary differences                    38,131,969   40,670,979    2,643,061      (375,278)

- Under/(Over) provision in prior years

(a) The Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) of the estimated taxable
       profits for the fiscal year.

(b) Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
232 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                      GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

27. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)

       (c) The numerical reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the
               applicable tax rates of the Group and of the Company are as follows:

                                                Group                   2022    Company       2022
                                                                          RM                    RM
                                            2023                              2023
                                              RM                                RM

Profit before tax                           139,057,886 188,081,441           11,384,812      75,462,754
Tax expense at the applicable tax rate of
                                            33,373,893        45,139,545      2,732,355       18,111,061
  24% (2022: 24%)
Tax effects in respect of:                    2,510,388       (5,769,101)                  -                 -
Different tax rate in foreign subsidiaries  (13,473,593)      (9,390,928)     (6,688,408)     (18,156,028)
Non-taxable income                                            9,896,284       6,538,738
Non-deductible expenses                       6,668,245                                         1,408,492
Tax incentives                                             -    (724,788)                  -                 -
Deferred tax assets not recognised /
                                             7,071,392         4,271,533         (13,354)        (13,525)
  (Utilisation of deferred tax assets       36,150,325        43,422,545      2,569,331       1,350,000
  previously not recognised)
                                                799,907       (1,830,662)         73,730      (1,725,278)
Under/(Over) provision in prior years        1,181,737           (920,904)                -                -
- income tax                                38,131,969
- deferred tax                                                40,670,979      2,643,061         (375,278)

(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:

Group                                                         Before tax      Tax effect      After tax
2023                                                                     RM             RM            RM

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to                (15,443,611)    - (15,443,611)
  profit or loss                                              52,077,066
                                                                              -               52,077,066
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations                       59,282
Foreign currency translation                                                  -               59,282
Share of other comprehensive profit of an associate
                                                                  116,392     (25,605)              90,787
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to           36,809,129      (25,605)        36,783,524
  profit or loss

Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation
                         Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 233

             NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                          31 DECEMBER 2023

27. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
       (d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows: (continued)

Group                                                       Before tax                     Tax effect      After tax
2022                                                                   RM                            RM             RM

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to              2,612,141                      -              2,612,141
  profit or loss                                                                                          7,525,523
                                                            7,525,523                      -
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations                                                                 60,975
Foreign currency translation                                60,975                         -
Share of other comprehensive income of associate                                                              (87,608)
                                                               (112,316)                   24,708        10,111,031
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to         10,086,323                     24,708
  profit or loss

Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation

28. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

       (a) Basic

               Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
               attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
               during the financial year.

                                                                                               Group     2022
                                                                                           2023

Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (“RM”)                 100,925,917 147,410,462
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen)                                    1,174,514,924 1,089,924,030

                                                                                           8.59          13.52

(b) Diluted

Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the current and previous financial years is equal to the basic earnings
per ordinary share for the respective financial year as there were no outstanding dilutive potential ordinary
shares at the end of each reporting period.
234 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

29. DIVIDENDS                                                                        Group and Company

       In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023:                          2023             2022
       First interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, payable on    RM               RM

          19 January 2024                                                            23,490,298         -

In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:                                 -                15,896,860

First interim single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on            -                22,443,865
  12 July 2022

Second interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on
  11 October 2022

In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:                                               -  21,150,710
Final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 June 2022       23,490,298       59,491,435

The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend in respect of the current financial year ended
31 December 2023.

30. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

                                                                                         Group        2022
                                                                                                        RM
                                                                                     2023
                                                                                       RM

Salaries, wages and bonuses                                                          156,844,923      118,315,326
Defined contribution plan                                                               6,847,673        6,239,163
Social security contribution                                                                             9,312,137
Defined benefit plan                                                                  11,156,110           (428,115)
Other benefits                                                                             683,459       8,621,306

                                                                                        9,271,351     142,059,817
                                                                                     184,803,516

Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM20,608,432
(2022: RM13,786,775).
                                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 235

                                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                               31 DECEMBER 2023

31. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION                           Group     2022            Company  2022
                                                                  RM                       RM
       Executive Directors of the Company:        2023                        2023
       - Fees                                       RM                          RM
       - Other emoluments
       Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind      540,000       540,000   -          -
                                                  15,411,968     9,687,162
       Executive Directors of the subsidiaries:   15,951,968    10,227,162    -          -
       Estimated money value of benefits-in-kind
       Total Executive Directors’ remuneration        107,400         95,316  -          -
       Non-Executive Directors of the Company:    16,059,368    10,322,478
       - Fees                                                                 -          -
       - Other emoluments
       Total Directors’ remuneration including                                -          -

          benefits-in-kind                         5,196,464     4,099,613    -          -
                                                        17,400        22,700
                                                                              -          -
                                                   5,213,864     4,122,313
                                                  21,273,232    14,444,791    -          -

                                                                              -          -

                                                  225,257       160,500       225,257    160,500
                                                   11,100          4,000       11,100       4,000

                                                  236,357       164,500       236,357    164,500

                                                  21,509,589    14,609,291    236,357    164,500

32. FINANCIAL GUARANTEE CONTRACTS

                                                                                Company  2022
                                                                                           RM
                                                                              2023
                                                                                RM

Corporate guarantees – unsecured                                              2,519,304,428 2,412,383,970
Issued to banks for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries                (1,569,600,819) (843,685,742)
- limit of guarantee
- amount utilised

(a) The Group and the Company had previously explicitly asserted financial guarantee contracts under MFRS 4.
       The Group and the Company made an irrevocable choice to apply MFRS 9 Financial Instruments on a contract-
       by-contract basis to these financial guarantee contracts as at the date of transition to MFRS 17.
236 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

32. FINANCIAL GUARANTEE CONTRACTS (CONTINUED)

       (b) The Company provides corporate guarantees to banks for credit facilities granted to certain subsidiaries. The
               fair value of such guarantees is negligible as the probability of the subsidiaries defaulting on the credit lines is
               remote.

       (c) The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the financial position of the
               subsidiary deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:

               (i) the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
               (ii) the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

               The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal
               information available.

               The subsidiaries defaulting on the credit lines is remote. Consequently, the Company is of the view that the loss
               allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.

       The Directors are of the view that the chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees are
       remote. Accordingly, the fair values of the above corporate guarantees given to subsidiaries for banking facilities are
       negligible.

33. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

       (a) Identities of related parties

               Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the
               party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa,
               or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related
               parties could be individuals or other entities.

               The Company has related party relationships with its direct, indirect subsidiaries, associates and ultimate
               holding company. In addition, the Company also has related party relationships with the following party:

Related party         Relationship with the Group
Enrich Mix Sdn. Bhd.
                      A related party by virtue of the directorship of certain Directors of the Company,
                      Hia Cheng and Tay Hoe Lian.
                                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 237

                                              NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                           31 DECEMBER 2023

33. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)

       (b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the
               Company had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:

                                                  Group   2022           Company    2022
                                                            RM                        RM
                                              2023                     2023
                                                RM                       RM

Holding                                       -           -            10,000       10,000
- Management fee income

Subsidiaries                                  -           -            48,000       48,000
- Management fee income
- Interest income                             -           -            27,171,210   13,666,416

Related party                                 (4,266,742) (2,830,871)  -            -
- Sale of goods

Associate                                     (3,447,097) (4,633,305)  -            -
- Sale of goods

Material balances of the above related parties are disclosed in Note 14 and Note 23 to the financial statements.

The related party transactions described above were carried out based on negotiated terms and conditions and
mutually agreed with the related parties.

(c) Compensation of key management personnel

Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director (whether executive or
otherwise) and any other members of key management personnel of the Group and the Company.

                                                  Group   2022           Company    2022
                                                            RM                        RM
                                              2023                     2023
                                                RM                       RM

Directors’ remuneration including             21,509,589  14,609,291   236,357      164,500
  estimated money value of
  benefits-in-kind (Note 31)                   4,085,620   3,642,795             -            -
                                              25,595,209  18,252,086   236,357      164,500
Other key management personnel’s
  remuneration
238 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

34. OPERATING SEGMENTS

       Guan Chong Berhad and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in investment holding, manufacturing, distributing
       and trading in cocoa butter, cocoa cake, cocoa powder and cocoa-derived food ingredients.

       Guan Chong Berhad has arrived at five (5) reportable segments that are Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Germany
       and Ivory Coast.

       Other operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments comprise operations related to investment
       holding and provision of management services.

       The accounting policies of operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
       accounting policies.

       Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and conditions and is eliminated
       on the consolidated financial statements. These policies have been applied constantly throughout the current and
       previous financial years.

       The respective subsidiaries’ chief operating decision maker monitors the operating results of its business units
       separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment
       performance is evaluated based on segment profit or loss before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation.

       Segment assets

       The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total assets are based on all assets
       allocated to each reportable segment other than deferred income tax assets and tax recoverable.

       Segment liabilities

       The amounts provided to the chief operating decision maker with respect to total liabilities are based on all liabilities
       allocated to each reportable segment other than income tax liabilities and borrowings.
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
       The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments:

                                 Malaysia    Singapore      Indonesia       Germany       Ivory Coast        Others Eliminations Consolidated
                                         RM            RM            RM             RM                RM
2023                                                                                                         RM           RM                          RM

Revenue

Total external revenue           1,494,284,440 2,128,126,241 311,682,938 1,294,773,727            49,130     91,924,772   - 5,320,841,248
                                                                                          691,168,753
Inter-segment revenue            2,475,316,509 3,767,851,654 1,263,652,740  1,889,699     691,217,883        109,876,398 (8,309,755,753)              -

Total revenue                    3,969,600,949 5,895,977,895 1,575,335,678 1,296,663,426   47,339,782        201,801,170 (8,309,755,753) 5,320,841,248
                                                                                                          -
Segment results                  152,931,124 63,862,163 39,052,592 78,382,255                                15,485,448 (37,102,228) 359,951,136
                                                                                          (16,562,274)
Interest income                  245,068     672,405        96,978          39            (10,443,128)       1,341,788    -               2,356,278

Finance cost                     (83,137,297) (53,490,164)  (410,410) (10,122,685)        565,529,316        (26,933,475) 45,116,722 (145,539,583)

Depreciation and amortisation (21,822,926)   (802,416) (20,189,509) (21,414,627)           72,555,621        (3,037,339)  - (77,709,945)

Segment profit before tax                                                                  36,532,673                                     139,057,886
                                                                                                          -
Tax expense                                                                                                                               (38,131,969)                     Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 239
                                                                                                 69,432
Profit for the financial year                                                                                                             100,925,917       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Segment assets                   1,910,222,718 1,236,119,144 920,803,679 430,753,346                         412,947,438  - 5,476,375,641                 31 DECEMBER 2023

Current tax assets                                                                                                                        23,924,521

Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                       1,617,975

Total assets                                                                                                                              5,501,918,137

Segment liabilities              401,518,320 714,063,197 58,128,994 90,091,791                               59,681,235   - 1,396,039,158

Current tax liabilities                                                                                                                   14,144,113

Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                  80,257,176

Borrowings                                                                                                                                2,181,833,174

Lease liabilities                                                                                                                         76,870,053

Total liabilities                                                                                                                         3,749,143,674

Other information:

Capital expenditure              50,776,435  8,780          9,307,219 22,940,389                             81,359,215   - 200,924,711
                                                                                                             15,468,947   - (291,727,106)
Net fair value loss/(gain) on    5,877,342 (313,525,125)    -               451,730
   derivatives

Non-cash expenses/(income)       16,438,871  (9,595,513)    (137,127)       1,305,382                        (4,359,282)  -               3,721,763
   (other than depreciation and
   amortisation)
34. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)                                                                                                                                     240 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       The following tables provide an analysis of the Group’s revenue, results, assets, liabilities and other information by geographical segments:    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (continued)
                                                                                                                                                      31 DECEMBER 2023
                                           Malaysia      Singapore      Indonesia      Germany      Others Eliminations Consolidated
                                                   RM              RM            RM            RM
2022                                                                                                RM           RM              RM

Revenue                                    1,196,625,760 1,771,095,850 319,558,324 1,045,031,221    87,527,769   - 4,419,838,924
Total external revenue
Inter-segment revenue                      2,160,968,718 2,608,172,492 1,290,618,482   1,345,395    139,001,507 (6,200,106,594)  -
Total revenue
Segment results                            3,357,594,478 4,379,268,342 1,610,176,806 1,046,376,616  226,529,276 (6,200,106,594) 4,419,838,924
Interest income
Finance cost                               226,638,987 38,125,053 35,949,577 15,401,677             74,695,927 (81,837,924) 308,973,297
Depreciation and amortisation
Segment profit before tax                  55,216        75,590         95,731         588          229,396      -               456,521
Tax expense
Profit for the financial year              (29,901,904) (24,474,404)    (432,009) (2,694,360)       (13,539,130) 14,998,027 (56,043,780)
Segment assets
Current tax assets                         (21,676,978)  (678,454) (18,197,668) (18,654,408)        (6,097,089)  - (65,304,597)
Deferred tax assets
Total assets                                                                                                                     188,081,441
Segment liabilities
Current tax liabilities                                                                                                          (40,670,979)
Deferred tax liabilities
Borrowings                                                                                                                       147,410,462
Lease liabilities
Total liabilities                          1,417,941,690 441,473,618 733,767,524 405,142,268        646,693,648  - 3,645,018,748
Other information:
Capital expenditure                                                                                                              13,738,682
Net fair value (gain)/loss on derivatives
Non-cash expenses/(income) (other than                                                                                           1,616,903

   depreciation and amortisation)                                                                                                3,660,374,333

                                           61,496,566 435,633,100 43,510,105 119,096,524            46,521,223   - 706,257,518

                                                                                                                                 9,822,094

                                                                                                                                 74,995,859

                                                                                                                                 1,160,754,376

                                                                                                                                 69,989,166

                                                                                                                                 2,021,819,013        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

                                           37,142,024            8,576  2,775,241      29,502,125 205,393,766    - 274,821,732
                                           (4,139,898)   54,067,498                 -     (713,307) (6,505,921)  - 42,708,372

                                           3,865,638     (7,368,180)    917,416        2,283,380    (5,431,094)  -               (5,732,840)
            Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 241

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023

35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       (a) Capital management

               The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group would be able to maintain an optimal
               capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholders’ value. To achieve this objective,
               the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic conditions, such as
               adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.

               The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory,
               if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group includes within net
               debt, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities from financial institutions less cash and bank balances. Capital
               includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent.

               As it is common in the cocoa industry for manufacturers or processors to carry cocoa beans inventory that
               are sufficient to mitigate the impact of seasonality and varieties of crops, and normally the bean inventory
               is financed through trade finance facilities. The interest cost of this is recouped and imputed through cocoa
               product pricing. In order to reflect better Group’s gearing position, the net debt is adjusted to exclude trade
               finance facilities which are used to finance cocoa bean or raw material. There was no change in the Group’s
               approach to capital management during the reporting period.

               The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period was as follows:

                                                                                    Group   2022
                                                                                              RM
                                                                                2023
                                                                                  RM

Borrowings (Note 20)                                         2,181,833,174 1,160,754,376
Lease liabilities owing to financial instituitions (Note 8)
Less: Cash and bank balances (Note 16)                                          28,579,910  25,998,179
Net debt
Total equity                                                                    (85,094,481) (69,110,829)
Debt-to-equity ratio (time)
                                                             2,125,318,603 1,117,641,726

                                                             1,752,774,463 1,638,555,320

                                                                                1.21        0.68

The Group is not subject to any other externally imposed capital requirements.
242 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                         GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)                                            2023            2022
       (b) Financial instruments                                                   RM              RM
               Categories of financial instruments
                                                                                 466,554,022     55,390,479
                Group
                Financial assets                                                   823,343,723   602,569,179
                Fair value through profit or loss                                    85,094,481   69,110,829
                Derivative financial assets
                Amortised cost                                                     908,438,204   671,680,008
                Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits and prepayments  1,374,992,226   727,070,487
                Cash and bank balances
                                                                                 211,349,113     91,912,676
                Financial liabilities
                Fair value through profit or loss                                1,181,616,204 611,624,732
                Derivative financial liabilities                                 2,181,833,174 1,160,754,376
                Amortised cost                                                   3,363,449,378 1,772,379,108
                Trade and other payables                                         3,574,798,491 1,864,291,784
                Borrowings
                                               Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 243

                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                31 DECEMBER 2023

35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
       (b) Financial instruments (continued)
               Categories of financial instruments (continued)

Company                                                                                   2023  2022
                                                                                            RM    RM
Financial assets
Amortised cost                                                  413,278,809                     538,943,081
Trade and other receivables, excluding deposits                  14,277,271                        6,576,777
Cash and bank balances
                                                                427,556,080                     545,519,858

Financial liabilities                                           19,568,203                      4,099,256
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities

Amortised cost                                                   31,617,353                        1,452,603
Trade and other payables                                        600,000,000                     300,000,000
Borrowings                                                      631,617,353                     301,452,603
                                                                651,185,556                     305,551,859

(c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value

The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

(i) Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are at reasonable
       approximation of fair value

The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities, such as trade and other receivables,
trade and other payables and floating rate borrowings, are reasonable approximation of fair values, either
due to their short-term nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are re-priced to market
interest rates on or near the end of the reporting period.

The carrying amounts of the current position of borrowings are reasonable approximation of fair values
due to the insignificant impact of discounting.
244 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

       (c) Methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value (continued)

               (ii) Derivatives

                      The fair values of commodity futures contracts and firm purchase commitments denominated in foreign
                      currency are determined based on the quoted closing price on the relevant commodity markets at the end
                      of the reporting period.

                      The fair value of a forward foreign exchange contract is the amount that would be payable or receivable
                      upon termination of the outstanding position arising and is determined by reference to the difference
                      between the contracted rate and the forward exchange rate as at the end of each reporting period applied
                      to a contract of similar amount and maturity profile.

                      The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is the amount that would be payable or receivable
                      upon termination of the position at the end of each reporting period, and is calculated as the difference
                      between the present value of the estimated future cash flows at the contracted rate compared to that
                      calculated at the spot rate as at the end of each reporting period.

       (d) Fair value hierarchy

               Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
               identical assets or liabilities.

               Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1
               that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

               (i) The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the
                      contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a
                      risk-free interest.

               (ii) Fair value of non-derivative financial liabilities, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated
                      based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of
                      interest at the end of the reporting period. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined
                      by reference to similar borrowing arrangements.

               Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on
               observable market data (unobservable inputs).
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

       (d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)

               The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed,
               together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position.

                                       Fair value of financial instruments     Fair value of financial instruments           Total  Carrying
                                                  carried at fair value                not carried at fair value       fair value    amount

2023                                   Level 1  Level 2  Level 3               Level 1  Level 2  Level 3                        RM          RM
Group                                       RM       RM       RM                    RM       RM       RM

Financial assets                       - 50,556,339                         -  -        -                           - 50,556,339 50,556,339
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets            - 31,325,396                         -  -        -                           - 31,325,396 31,325,396
- Commodity futures contracts
- Commodity option contracts           -        820,162                     -  -        -                           -  820,162      820,162                                          Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 245
- Foreign currency forward
                                       - 383,852,125                        -  -        -                           - 383,852,125 383,852,125                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      contracts
- Firm purchase commitments                                                                                                                                         31 DECEMBER 2023

      denominated in foreign currency

                                       - 466,554,022                        -  -        -                           - 466,554,022 466,554,022

Financial liabilities                  - 122,863,220                        -  -        -                           - 122,863,220 122,863,220
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities       - 67,922,563                         -  -        -                           - 67,922,563 67,922,563
- Commodity futures contracts
- Commodity option contracts           - 19,568,203                         -  -        -                           - 19,568,203 19,568,203
- Cross currency swap contracts
- Foreign currency forward             -        995,127                     -  -        -                           -  995,127      995,127

      contracts

                                       - 211,349,113                        -  -        -                           - 211,349,113 211,349,113
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)                                                                                                                                                246 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       (d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)                                                                                                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

               The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed,  31 DECEMBER 2023
               together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (continued)

                                   Fair value of financial instruments     Fair value of financial instruments        Total  Carrying
                                              carried at fair value                not carried at fair value    fair value    amount

2022                               Level 1  Level 2  Level 3               Level 1  Level 2  Level 3                     RM          RM
Group                                   RM       RM       RM                    RM       RM       RM

Financial assets                   - 42,934,262                         -  -        -                           - 42,934,262 42,934,262
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets        - 3,877,713                          -  -        -                           - 3,877,713 3,877,713
- Commodity futures contracts
- Commodity option contracts       - 8,578,504                          -  -        -                           - 8,578,504 8,578,504
- Foreign currency forward

      contracts

                                   - 55,390,479                         -  -        -                           - 55,390,479 55,390,479

Financial liabilities              - 71,838,842                         -  -        -                           - 71,838,842 71,838,842
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities   - 13,875,974                         -  -        -                           - 13,875,974 13,875,974
- Commodity futures contracts
- Commodity option contracts       - 4,099,256                          -  -        -                           - 4,099,256 4,099,256
- Cross currency swap contracts
- Foreign currency forward         - 2,098,604                          -  -        -                           - 2,098,604 2,098,604

      contracts

                                   - 91,912,676                         -  -        -                           - 91,912,676 91,912,676                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

       (d) Fair value hierarchy (continued)

               The following tables set out the financial instruments carried at fair value and those not carried at fair value for which fair value is disclosed,
               together with their fair values and carrying amounts shown in the statements of financial position. (continued)

                                   Fair value of financial instruments     Fair value of financial instruments        Total  Carrying
                                              carried at fair value                not carried at fair value    fair value    amount

2023                               Level 1  Level 2  Level 3               Level 1  Level 2  Level 3                     RM          RM
Company                                 RM       RM       RM                    RM       RM       RM

Financial liabilities              - 19,568,203                         -  -        -                           - 19,568,203 19,568,203
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities
- Cross currency swap contracts

2022                               - 4,099,256                          -  -        -                           - 4,099,256 4,099,256                                                Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 247
Company
Financial liabilities                                                                                                                                                 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities                                                                                                                                    31 DECEMBER 2023
- Cross currency swap contracts
248 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES

       The Group’s financial risk management objective is to optimise value creation for its shareholders whilst minimising
       the potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, interest rates and unpredictably
       of the financial markets.

       The Group operates within an established risk management framework and clearly defined guidelines that are
       regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors. Financial risk management is carried out through risk review, internal
       control systems and adherence to the Group financial risk management policies. The Group is exposed mainly
       to credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk as well as liquidity and cash flow risk.
       Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below.

       (i) Credit risk

               Cash deposits and trade receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised if
               a counter party fails to perform as contracted. The counter parties are major international institutions and
               reputable multinational organisations. It is the policy of the Group to monitor the financial standing of these
               counter parties on an ongoing basis to ensure that the Group is exposed to minimal credit risk.

               The Group’s primary exposure to credit risk arises through its trade and other receivables. The Group’s trading
               terms with its customers are mainly on credit. The credit period is generally for a period of 30 days to 180 days
               (2022: 30 days to 180 days). Each customer has a maximum credit limit and the Group seeks to maintain strict
               control over its outstanding receivables via a credit control officer to minimise credit risk. Overdue balances are
               reviewed regularly by senior management.

               The Company provides financial guarantee to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain
               subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments made by the
               subsidiaries.

               Credit risk concentration profile

               The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amounts owing by two (2) customers (2022: two
               (2) customers) which constituted approximately 14% (2022: 12%) of its trade receivables at the end of the
               reporting period.
                                        Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 249

                            NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       (i) Credit risk (continued)

               Credit risk concentration profile (continued)

               The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the country and industry sector profiles of
               its trade receivables (including amounts owing by a related party and associate) on an ongoing basis. The
               credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the end of each reporting period are as
               follows:

                            Group                       Group

                            2023                  2023  2022                  2022
                              RM          % of total      RM          % of total

By Country                   82,882,190   17.5%          54,559,632   13.0%
Indonesia                    60,315,032   12.7%          38,954,782    9.3%
China                        43,654,582                  28,449,421    6.8%
Malaysia                     33,785,329    9.2%          47,202,821
Singapore                    27,676,277    7.1%          20,556,376   11.2%
Germany                      27,033,893    5.8%          60,010,283    4.9%
United States                25,346,176    5.7%          21,174,659
Switzerland                  20,381,812    5.3%          27,633,861   14.3%
India                        19,858,732    4.3%                        5.0%
Brazil                       18,567,990    4.2%            5,394,653   6.6%
Japan                        12,278,415    3.9%            9,747,964   1.3%
Netherlands                                2.6%          15,403,386    2.3%
Italy                          6,216,003   1.3%          15,445,211    3.7%
Russia                         3,970,329   0.9%          23,838,926    3.7%
Other countries              92,526,616   19.5%          51,134,549    5.7%
                            474,493,376   100%          419,506,524
                                                                      12.2%
                                                                      100%

The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial guarantee contracts provided as credit enhancements
to the secured loans of subsidiaries amounts to RM1,569,600,819 representing the outstanding banking
facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period.

(ii) Foreign currency risk

Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates.

The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies
other than the respective functional currencies of entities within the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk
are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”), Euro (“EUR”) and CFA Franc (“FCFA”). Foreign
currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing basis to ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level.
On occasion, the Group enters into forward currency contracts to hedge against its foreign currency risk. The
Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies for working capital purposes.
250 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       (ii) Foreign currency risk (continued)

               The majority of the Group transactional currency risk arises from its foreign currency based forward sales
               and purchase of commodity items, contracted along the cocoa bean price chain. These non-financial forward
               contracts denominated in foreign currency are exposed to economic risk due to currency fluctuations and
               accounted as financial instruments with fair value impact to its financial statements. These forward contracts
               on fulfillment at maturity will result in book receivables or payables in foreign currency.

               The Group entity’s currency exposure and corresponding foreign currency contract are mark-to-market and
               fair value quarterly for operational hedge effectiveness testing and for management reporting and oversight.
               Monthly long-short positions on foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives are also produced for
               timely control and intervention.

               Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk

               The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and the Company to a reasonably
               possible change in United States Dollar (“USD”), British Pound (“GBP”), Euro (“EUR”) and CFA Franc (“FCFA”)
               exchange rate against the respective functional currencies of the Group entities, with all other variables held
               constant, comparatives have been restated to conform with current year’s presentation:

Profit after tax and equity                   Group     2022             Company       2022
                                                          RM                             RM
                                          2023                         2023
                                            RM                           RM

USD/RM - strengthen by 5% (2022: 5%)      (45,545,900)  (21,526,300)   5,888,000       6,367,600
               - weaken by 5% (2022: 5%)  45,545,900    21,526,300     (5,888,000)     (6,367,600)
                                          (22,539,500)   (4,984,900)
GBP/RM - strengthen by 5% (2022: 5%)      22,539,500                                -               -
               - weaken by 5% (2022: 5%)                  4,984,900                 -               -
                                            5,470,200    (7,665,300)                -               -
EUR/RM - strengthen by 5% (2022: 5%)       (5,470,200)    7,665,300                 -               -
               - weaken by 5% (2022: 5%)    2,707,500                               -               -
                                           (2,707,500)       731,800                -               -
FCFA/RM - strengthen by 5% (2022: 5%)                       (731,800)
               - weaken by 5% (2022: 5%)
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       (iii) Interest rate risk

               Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group would fluctuate because of changes
               in market interest rates. The exposures to market risk of the Group for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the deposits placed with
               licensed banks and interest bearing borrowings of the Group. There is no formal hedging policy with respect to interest rate exposure.

               The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the
               remaining maturities of the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed to interest rate risk:

Group                         Note      Weighted       Within       1-5   More than     Total
As at 31 December 2023                     average      1 year     years      5 years     RM
                                          effective                                 RM
Fixed rates                                                 RM        RM
Deposits with licensed banks        interest rate
Sukuk Wakalah                                       %

Floating rates                16    3.85               30,896,942  -      - 30,896,942
Revolving credits
Term loans                    20    4.50               - (450,000,000) (150,000,000) (600,000,000)                                                                                    Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 251
Trade loans
                              20    6.08 (179,834,266)             -      - (179,834,266)                                                                              NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at 31 December 2022
Fixed rates                   20    3.21 (21,430,643) (47,999,908)        - (69,430,551)                                                                             31 DECEMBER 2023
Deposits with licensed banks
Sukuk Wakalah                 20    6.42 (1,332,568,357)           -      - (1,332,568,357)

Floating rates                16    1.98               21,847,367  -      -             21,847,367
Revolving credits
Term loans                    20    3.84               - (300,000,000)    - (300,000,000)
Trade loans
                              20    3.82 (118,261,291)             -      - (118,261,291)

                              20    3.19 (27,919,416) (62,970,597) (1,426,373) (92,316,386)

                              20    3.60 (650,176,699)             -      - (650,176,699)
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)                                                                                                           252 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       (iii) Interest rate risk (continued)                                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

               The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of reporting period and the  31 DECEMBER 2023
               remaining maturities of the financial instruments of the Company that are exposed to interest rate risk:

Company                        Note      Weighted       Within       1-5   More than     Total
As at 31 December 2023                      average      1 year     years      5 years     RM
                                           effective                                 RM
Fixed rates                                                  RM        RM
Deposits with licensed banks         interest rate
Sukuk Wakalah                                        %

Floating rate                  16    3.00               13,988,800  -      - 13,988,800
Amounts owing by subsidiaries
                               20    4.50               - (450,000,000) (150,000,000) (600,000,000)
As at 31 December 2022
Fixed rates                    14    4.27               - 388,240,401      - 388,240,401
Deposits with licensed banks
Sukuk Wakalah                  16    2.75               6,018,800   -      -             6,018,800

Floating rate                  20    3.84               - (300,000,000)    - (300,000,000)
Amounts owing by subsidiaries
                               14    3.64               - 517,248,924      - 517,248,924

                                                                                                                                                           GUAN CHONG BERHAD
                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 253

                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                            31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
       (iii) Interest rate risk (continued)

               Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk

               The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and of the Company if interest rates at
               the end of reporting period changed by 100 basis points with all other variables held constant.

                                                   Group     2022           Company    2022
                                                               RM                        RM
                                               2023                       2023
                                                 RM                         RM

Profit after tax and equity                    (12,022,000)  (6,542,000)  2,951,000    3,931,000
- Increase by 1% (2022: 1%)                    12,022,000    6,542,000    (2,951,000)  (3,931,000)
- Decrease by 1% (2022: 1%)

The Group’s exposure to the interest rate risk is higher in 2023 than in 2022 due to the increase in outstanding
borrowings during the financial year. The assumed movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis
is based on current observable market environment.

(iv) Commodity price risk

Commodity traded by the Group is subject to fluctuations due to a number of factors that result in price risk. The
Group enters into commodity derivatives for trading purposes with the purpose of managing market exposure
to adverse price movement in this commodity. The Group’s trading market risk appetite is determined by the
Board of Directors.

Sensitivity analysis for commodity price risk

The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if commodity price index at the end of
reporting date changed by 1% with all other variables held constant.

                                                   Group     2022           Company    2022
                                                               RM                        RM
                                               2023                       2023
                                                 RM                         RM

Profit after tax and equity                    7,459,000     8,736,000    -            -
- Increase by 1% (2022: 1%)                    (7,459,000)   (8,736,000)
- Decrease by 1% (2022: 1%)                                               -            -

(v) Liquidity and cash flow risk

Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital. It is the risk that the Group would
encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations when due.

The Group monitors and maintains a level of cash and bank balances deemed adequate by management to
finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows.
254 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       (v) Liquidity and cash flow risk (continued)

               The table below summarises the maturity profile of the liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end
               of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations.

As at 31 December 2023            On demand           One to                Over  Total
Group                                or within    five years         five years     RM
Financial liabilities                 one year
Trade and other payables                      RM           RM                 RM
Borrowings
Derivative financial liabilities  1,181,616,204                   -                  - 1,181,616,204
Lease liabilities                 1,574,219,545   579,030,511        158,506,027 2,311,756,083

Company                             211,349,113                   -                  - 211,349,113
Financial liabilities                 20,646,829   46,790,902         41,259,844 108,697,575
Trade and other payables                          625,821,413        199,765,871 3,813,418,975
Derivative financial liabilities  2,987,831,691
Borrowings
Financial guarantee contracts         31,617,353                  -  -            31,617,353
                                      19,568,203                  -
As at 31 December 2022                27,058,932  538,095,041        -            19,568,203
Group                             1,569,600,819                   -
Financial liabilities             1,647,845,307   538,095,041        158,506,027 723,660,000
Trade and other payables
Borrowings                                                           - 1,569,600,819
Derivative financial liabilities
Lease liabilities                                                    158,506,027 2,344,446,375

Company                             611,624,732                   -  - 611,624,732
Financial liabilities               805,863,437   401,948,250
Trade and other payables                                             - 1,207,811,687
Derivative financial liabilities      91,912,676                  -
Borrowings                            14,369,363   33,210,072        -            91,912,676
Financial guarantee contracts     1,523,770,208   435,158,322
                                                                     36,446,171   84,025,606

                                                                     36,446,171 1,995,374,701

                                     1,452,603                    -  -            1,452,603
                                     4,099,256                    -
                                   11,520,000     346,080,000        -            4,099,256
                                  843,685,742                     -
                                  860,757,601     346,080,000        - 357,600,000

                                                                     - 843,685,742

                                                                     - 1,206,837,601
                                   Integrated Annual Report 2023 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 255

                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                    31 DECEMBER 2023

36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)

       (vi) Net investment hedge

               The Group’s foreign operations of various functional currencies when translated into its parent’s reporting
               currency based on closing rates (for assets and liabilities) and average transaction rates (for income and
               expenses) at consolidation, gives rise to foreign currency translation gain or loss that will be recognised in
               other comprehensive income.

               A foreign currency exposure arises from the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary that has a
               USD functional currency. The risk arises from the fluctuation in spot exchange rates between USD and RM,
               which causes the amount of the net investment to vary. The hedged risk in the net investment hedge is the risk
               of a weakening USD against the RM that will result in a reduction in the carrying amount of the Group’s net
               investment in the Singapore subsidiary.

               Part of the Group’s net investment in its Singapore subsidiary is hedged by cross currency swap contracts,
               which mitigates the foreign currency risk arising from the subsidiary’s net assets. The swap contracts are
               designated as a hedging instrument for the changes in the value of the net investment that is attributable to
               changes in the RM/USD spot rate. The Group applies a hedge ratio 1:1.

               To assess hedge effectiveness, the Group determines the economic relationship between the hedging
               instrument and the hedged item by comparing changes in the carrying amount of the swap contracts that is
               attributable to a change in the mark-to-market with changes in the investment in the foreign operation due to
               movements in the spot rate. The Group’s policy is to hedge the net investment only to the extent of the swap
               contracts principal.

               The amounts related to items designated as hedged items of the Group were as follows:

                       Change in value used              Foreign currency         Balances remaining in
                       for calculating hedge          translation reserve           the foreign currency
                                                                                      translation reserve
                                   effectiveness                              RM               from hedging
                                                  RM                                           relationships
                                                                                           for which hedge
                                                                                          accounting is no
                                                                                             longer applied
                                                                                                              RM

2023                   (19,669,935)                   (19,669,935)                -
- Overseas subsidiary

2022

- Overseas subsidiary  (4,226,324)                    (4,226,324)                 -
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)                                                                                                      256 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (vi) Net investment hedge (continued)
               The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments of the Group were as follows:                                             NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                         Notional      Carrying        Line item in                 Hedging                              Hedge           Line item    31 DECEMBER 2023
                           amount    amount of     the statement                gain or loss                 ineffectiveness                  in the
                                      liabilities                                recognised
                                 RM                     of financial                                           recognised in       statement of
                                               RM  position where                       in OCI                 profit or loss    comprehensive
                     316,058,557                                                            RM
                                                       the hedging                                                           RM      income that
                                                     instrument is                                                                        includes
                                                                                                                                             hedge
                                                            included
                                                                                                                                 ineffectiveness

2023                                                                Derivative  (19,669,935)                 - Other expenses
                                     (19,568,203) financial liabilities
- Cross currency
     swap contracts

2022                 302,333,941                                  Derivative    (4,226,324)                  - Other expenses
                                     (4,099,256) financial liabilities
- Cross currency
     swap contracts

                                                                                                                                                      GUAN CHONG BERHAD
                                                                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 257

OTHER
INFORMATION

258 List of Properties
264 Other Compliance Information
265 Analysis of Shareholdings
268 Notice of Annual General Meeting
274 Administrative Details
• Form of Proxy
258 OTHER INFORMATION                                                                 GUAN CHONG BERHAD

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                    Net Book

                      Tenure /       Approximate Approximate                                        Values @
                      Term of
                                     Land Area  Age of         Existing               Date of 31 December
                       Lease                                      Use
Location                             (sq m)     Building                              Acquisition   2023

Malaysia

PLO273 Jalan Timah 60 years          7,976         33 years    Industrial premises /  07 December   5,994,449
                                                (Main factory    factory consists of       1989       43,262
2, 81700 Pasir        (expiring on                               GCCM main office,
                                                 and office)    production area for
Gudang, Johor         08 May 2043)                 27 years    GCCM and temporary
                                                   (second
                                                   factory)           warehouse

No. 49 Jalan 10/9,       99 years       143     40 years       Hostel                 28 July 1994
Perjiranan 10, Pasir   (expiring on   27,523
Gudang, Johor         06 May 2082)
                                       3,502
PLO725, Jalan Keluli    60 years       4,073    17 years       Factory / warehouse    09 January 17,197,024
9, 81700 Pasir        (expiring on     4,073                                              2006
Gudang, Johor         17 February      4,073
                                       5,565
                          2068)       16,107

Lot 4-0104(P)         Freehold        12,747    N/A            Industrial land        01 July 2013 2,032,207
Mukim of Plentong,                   8,093.71
Johor

Lot 4-0117            Freehold                  N/A            Industrial land        01 July 2013 2,364,104
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor

Lot 4-0118            Freehold                  N/A            Industrial land        01 July 2013 2,364,104
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor

Lot 4-0119            Freehold                  N/A            Industrial land        01 July 2013 2,364,104
Mukim of Plentong,
Johor

Lot 4-0120            Freehold                      6 years    Warehouse              01 July 2013 7,145,435
Mukim of Plentong,                              (Warehouse)       Rental              02 July 2014 13,766,053
Johor
                                                   13 years
Lot D30 & D31,          13 years
Distripark B,         (expiring on
Pelepas Free Zone,
Johor                  23 March
                          2025)

PLO81, Jalan Timah 3, 60 years                  1 year         Industrial land        04 January 11,291,390
                                                                                          2019
81700 Pasir Gudang, (expiring on

Johor.                21 July 2036)

PLO207, Jalan         60 years                     6 years     Industrial premises / 26 December    15,019,259
                                                (Main office
Tembaga Satu, 81700 (expiring on                and factory)   factory consists of    1990

Pasir Gudang, Johor 30 September                               GCBCM main office,

                      2045)                                    production area for

                                                               GCBCM and temporary

                                                               warehouse
                                                             Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 259

                                                                                 LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                    Net Book

                      Tenure /      Approximate Approximate                                         Values @
                      Term of
                                    Land Area  Age of        Existing                  Date of 31 December
                       Lease                                    Use
Location                            (sq m)     Building                                Acquisition  2023

PLO233, Jalan         60 years        8,044    37 years      Industrial premises with  15 October   7,899,688
                                      8,093    37 years      a two storey office with      2020     7,853,148
Tembaga Satu, 81700 (expiring on     20,234                   a single storey factory
                                     20,166
Pasir Gudang, Johor 16 January       25,750                        and warehouse
                                       111
                      2049)            111

PLO308, Jalan         60 years      6,113.02                 Industrial premises / 15 October

Tembaga Dua, 81700 (expiring on      63,566                  factory / warehouse       2020

Pasir Gudang, Johor 22 September

                      2045)

PLO480, Jalan Keluli    60 years               12 years      Warehouse                 30 June 2021 8,979,841
Tiga, 81700 Pasir     (expiring on
Gudang, Johor         17 October

                          2053)

PLO546, Jalan Keluli    60 years               15 years      Warehouse                 30 June 2021 7,210,647
Sepuluh, 81700 Pasir  (expiring on
Gudang, Johor         07 October

                          2057)

Lot 211016 Mukim of Freehold                      N/A        Commercial land           07 August 32,853,663
Plentong, Johor                                14 years                                   2023

Singapore

The Cascadia          Freehold                               Residential               17 January   3,605,835
943 Bukit Timah Road                                                                       2011
#05-47
Singapore 589659

1 Commonwealth          30 years               16 years      Rental                    19 January   1,398,284
Lane                  (expiring on                                                         2011
#08-04 One            28 February
Commonwealth
Singapore 149544          2038)

United States

400, Eagle Court      Freehold                 N/A           Industrial premises / 10 April 2017 8,836,983
Swedesboro,
Logan Township,                                              factory consists of CCC
Gloucester County,
NJ 08085                                                     main office, production

                                                             area for CCC

Côte d'Ivoire

Zone Industrielle de  Leasehold                2 years         Industrial premises /   28 January   161,795,119
San Pédro                                                       factory consists of        2019
Bardot 18, Lot 208                                             GCBCCI main office
TF No. 1138                                                  and production area for
Bas-Cavally,
Côte d'Ivoire                                                           GCBCCI
260 OTHER INFORMATION                                                                 GUAN CHONG BERHAD

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                    Net Book

                     Tenure /        Approximate Approximate                                        Values @
                     Term of
                                     Land Area  Age of        Existing                Date of 31 December
                      Lease                                      Use
Location                             (sq m)     Building                              Acquisition   2023

Indonesia

Komplek Tunas        30 years        33,181     14 years       Industrial premises /  21 June 2010  36,269,309
                                                18 years        factory consists of
Industrial Estate Type (expiring on                            PT Asia main office,
                                                              production area for PT
7 No. A-F, Batam,    24 August
                                                                          Asia
Indonesia            2030)

Komplek Tunas        Leasehold       6,985                    Industrial premises and 17 March      3,884,227
                                     1,257
Industrial Estate Type (expiring on  4,388                    warehouse               2011
                                     4,513
7 No. 7-G, Batam,    24 August         170
                                       132
Indonesia            2030)             132
                                       132
Komplek Tunas        Leasehold       30,000     18 years Industrial premises and 17 March           911,207

Industrial Estate Type (expiring on                           warehouse               2011

6 No. 6-D, Batam,    24 August

Indonesia            2030)

Komplek Tunas        Leasehold                  17 years Industrial premises and 04 August          6,845,474

Industrial Estate Type (expiring on                           warehouse               2020

7 No. 7-H, Batam,    24 August

Indonesia            2030)

Komplek Tunas        Leasehold                  17 years Industrial premises and 11 January         7,392,973

Industrial Estate Type (expiring on                           warehouse               2021

7 No. 7-I, Batam,    24 August

Indonesia            2030)

Komplek Perumahan     Leasehold                 19 years      Hostel                  23 September 463,158
Diamond Palace Blok  (expiring on                                                           2011
B No. 26, Batam,      13 August
Indonesia
                         2030)

Komplek Perumahan Leasehold                     18 years      Hostel                  06 May 2011 165,764

Purimas Residence (expiring on

Blok B3 No. 11,      28 May 2030)

Batam, Indonesia

Komplek Perumahan Leasehold                     18 years      Hostel                  06 May 2011 165,764

Purimas Residence (expiring on

Blok B3 No. 15,      28 May 2030)

Batam, Indonesia

Komplek Perumahan Leasehold                     20 years      Hostel                  06 May 2011 165,764

Purimas Residence (expiring on

Blok B5 No. 23,      28 May 2030)

Batam, Indonesia

Kawasan Industri      Leasehold                 11 years Industrial premises and 10 January 35,521,729
Kelurahan IV,        (expiring on
Blok 5 Keluruhan      08 August                               warehouse               2012
Belian Kecamatan
Batam Kota, Batam,       2031)
Indonesia
                                                              Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 261

                                                                                  LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                    Net Book

                       Tenure /      Approximate Approximate                                        Values @
                       Term of
                                     Land Area  Age of        Existing             Date of 31 December
                        Lease                                    Use
Location                             (sq m)     Building                           Acquisition      2023

Komplek Tunas          Leasehold       942      18 years      Industrial premises and 08 June 2012  888,561
                                       864                            warehouse
Industrial Estate Type (expiring on
                                     15,551
6 No. 6-C, Batam,      24 August
                                     10,890
Indonesia              2030)           174
                                       112
Kawasan Daan Mogot Leasehold           112      11 years      Industrial premises  02 October       2,940,781
                                       112                                             2012
Arcadia, Rukan Daan (expiring on       112

Mogot Permai Blok 04 August

G15 No.5 & 6, Jl       2035)

Raya Daan Mogot

KM 21, Batu Ceper,

Tangerang 15122,

Indonesia

Palu warehouse          Leasehold               17 years      Warehouse            13 December 7,054,578
Jalan Trans Sulawesi,  (expiring on                                                     2013
Kelurahan Taipa,       22 January
Kecamatan
Palu Utara,                2027)
Kota Palu 94147,
Sulawesi Tengah

Makassar Warehouse Leasehold                    25 years      Warehouse            10 December 4,685,726
                                                8 years                                 2013
Jl. Kima 10 Kav A/5-a (expiring on              8 years
                                                8 years
Makassar 90241,        29 October               8 years
                                                8 years
Sulawesi Selatan       2028)

Komplek Villa Bukit     Leasehold                             Hostel               29 December 550,452
Indah Blok H3 No.1,    (expiring on                                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia       03 October

                           2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit     Leasehold                             Hostel               29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.2,    (expiring on                                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia       03 October

                           2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit     Leasehold                             Hostel               29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.3,    (expiring on                                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia       03 October

                           2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit Leasehold                                 Hostel               29 December 355,896
                                                                                        2015
Indah Blok H3 No.3A, (expiring on

Batam, Indonesia       03 October

                       2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit     Leasehold                             Hostel               29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.5,    (expiring on                                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia       03 October

                           2031)
262 OTHER INFORMATION                                                                 GUAN CHONG BERHAD

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                   Net Book

                      Tenure /      Approximate Approximate                                        Values @
                      Term of
                                    Land Area  Age of        Existing                 Date of 31 December
                       Lease                                    Use
Location                            (sq m)     Building                               Acquisition  2023

Komplek Villa Bukit    Leasehold      112      8 years       Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.6,   (expiring on    112      8 years                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia      03 October      112      8 years
                                      112      8 years
                          2031)       112      8 years
                                      112      8 years
Komplek Villa Bukit    Leasehold      174      8 years       Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.9,   (expiring on    605      5 years                                     2015
Batam, Indonesia      03 October
                                    13,044
                          2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit    Leasehold                             Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.10,  (expiring on                                                         2015
Batam, Indonesia      03 October

                          2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit    Leasehold                             Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.11,  (expiring on                                                         2015
Batam, Indonesia      03 October

                          2031)

Komplek Villa Bukit    Leasehold                             Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Indah Blok H3 No.12,  (expiring on                                                         2015
Batam, Indonesia      03 October

                          2031)

Komplek Villa          Leasehold                             Hostel                   29 December 355,896
Bukit Indah Blok      (expiring on                                                         2015
H3 No.12A, Batam,     03 October
Indonesia
                          2031)

Komplek Villa          Leasehold                             Hostel                   29 December 550,452
Bukit Indah Blok      (expiring on                                                         2015
H3 No.12B, Batam,     03 October
Indonesia
                          2031)

Rukan Daan Mogot       Leasehold                             Warehouse                22 August    2,119,936
Permai                (expiring on                                                       2019
Blok G15 No.1          21 August
Jalan Raya Daan
Mogot KM 21 Batu          2039)
Ceper,
Tangerang 15122,
Indonesia

Germany

Neckarvorlandstraße   Freehold                 53 years        Industrial premises /  01 January   30,618,487
21-25, 68159                                                 factory consists of SVG      2020
Mannheim, Germany                                            main office, production

                                                                 area for SVG and
                                                               residential building
                                                                 Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 263

                                                                                     LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                                                     Net Book

                       Tenure /       Approximate Approximate                                        Values @
                       Term of
                                      Land Area  Age of          Existing               Date of 31 December
                        Lease                                       Use
Location                              (sq m)     Building                               Acquisition  2023

Fruchtbahnhofstraße Leasehold         20,840     N/A             Industrial premises 01 October 27,955,890
                                        703
35-41, 68159           (expiring on                                                     2020
                                      71,872
Mannheim,              30 September      85
                                         87
Germany                2050)            144
                                        144
Am Salzkai,              Leasehold               N/A             Car park               01 June 2020 27,251
68159 Mannheim          (expiring on
Germany                31 May 2024)

United Kingdom

Lower Road,            Freehold                      73 years    Industrial premises /  25 September 46,306,052
Glemsford,                                       (Building One)   factory consists of         2020
Sudberry, Suffolk                                                GCBCUK main office
                                                     23 years    and production area
                                                 (Building Two)
                                                                      for GCBCUK

Plot 34 Long Melford,  Freehold                  1 year          Residential            28 February 2,018,800
5 Siskin Close Long                                                                         2023
Melford Sudbury
Suffolk CO10 9FZ

Plot 29 Long Melford,  Freehold                  1 year          Residential            31 March     2,213,623
3 Robin Close Long                                                                        2023
Melford Sudbury
Suffolk CO10 9GE

Plot 46 Long           Freehold                  1 year          Residential            29 June 2023 3,526,872
Melford, 7 Dunnock
Close Long Melford
Sudbury Suffolk
CO10 9GF

Plot 22 Fawcett Road,  Freehold                  1 year          Residential            17 November 2,839,205
24 Fawcett Road,                                                                             2023
Sudbury Suffolk
CO10 0WX
264 OTHER INFORMATION         GUAN CHONG BERHAD

OTHER COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS
       There were no proceeds raised from any corporate proposal during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

       The fees payable to the external auditors in relation to the audit and non-audit services rendered to the Company
       and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are as follows:

Audit fees                    Company          Group
Non-audit fees                         RM           RM

                                119,000    1,170,924
                                    5,000    656,880

3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS

       There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interest of Directors and major shareholders,
       either still subsisting at the end of the financial year under review or entered into since the end of the previous
       financial year.
                                                                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 265

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 12 APRIL 2024

Issued Share Capital    1,174,914,924 ordinary shares (including treasury shares)
                        1,174,514,924 ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares)
Voting Right
Number of Shareholders  One vote per ordinary share

                        5,683

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                     No. of           %* of        No. of %* of Issued

Size of Shareholdings                     Shareholders Shareholders Shares held * Share Capital

Less than 100 shares                                     90           1.58         4,721            Neg
100 to 1,000 shares                                  1,183                                         0.07
1,001 to 10,000 shares                               2,942            20.82        773,186         1.15
10,001 to 100,000 shares                             1,177                                         3.09
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                              51.77  13,569,912          45.89
5% and above of issued shares                          288                                       49.80
TOTAL                                                      3          20.71  36,251,240         100.00

                                                     5,683            5.07 539,038,438

                                                                      0.05 584,877,427

                                                                      100.00 1,174,514,924

Notes:
Neg Negligible
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.

LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS

                                                                      No. of Shares held

Name                                                 Direct           %*           Indirect     %*

Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd.                       584,877,427      49.80                  -  -

Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS                                              No. of Shares held

Name                                                       Direct     %*           Indirect      %*
Tay Hoe Lian
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick                           56,313,857       4.79       720,000(1)     0.06
Hia Cheng                                            20,998,945       1.79    6,812,200(2)      0.58
Ang Nyee Nyee                                        29,052,417       2.47   49,740,042(3)      4.23
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir                                                                       Neg
Ng Kim Hian                                                        -      -          8,000(4)
Tan Pui Suang                                                      -      -                -        -
                                                                   -      -                -        -
                                                                   -      -                -        -
266 OTHER INFORMATION                                                        GUAN CHONG BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 12 APRIL 2024

HOLDING COMPANY – GUAN CHONG RESOURCES SDN. BHD.

                                                                      No. of ordinary shares

Name                        Direct                                    %      Indirect            %

Tay Hoe Lian                5,130,000                                 19.00                   -  -
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Hia Cheng                   3,762,180                                 13.93                   -  -

                            1,350,000                                 5.00                    -  -

Other than as disclosed above, the Directors of the Company did not have any other interest in the shares of the Company
and its related corporations as at the date of the Analysis of Shareholdings.

Notes:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Yap Kim Hong’s and his daughter, Tay Jing Ying’s shareholding in the

       Company.
(2) Deemed interest by virtue of his daughters, son and daughter-in-law, Tay Jing Ye’s, Tay Sing Ye’s, Tay Lian Shi’s and

       Lee Ping’s shareholding in the Company.
(3) Deemed interest by virtue of his spouse, Wong Saow Lai’s and his daughters and son, Hia Sin Yee’s, Hia Sin Che’s

       and Hia Kai Xuan’s shareholding in the Company.
(4) Deemed interest by virtue of her spouse, Leong Chee Foong’s shareholding in the Company.

GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES                                                  No. of         %*
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                             Shares held         35.54
                                                                             417,432,938
No. Name of Shareholders                                                                          7.88
                                                                               92,500,000
1. Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd.                                                                 6.38
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                             74,944,489
                                                                                                  4.54
         Pledged Securities Account For Guan Chong Resources Sdn Bhd           53,358,793         3.27
3. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                           38,350,000         2.56
                                                                               30,106,709         2.54
         Pledged Securities Account - Ambank (M) Berhad For                    29,799,398         1.86
         Guan Chong Resources Sdn. Bhd. (SMART)                                21,836,358         1.71
4. Tay Hoe Lian                                                                20,082,981         1.34
5. Lembaga Tabung Haji                                                         15,751,323
6. Wong Saow Lai                                                                                  1.28
7. Syarikat PJ Enterprise Sdn Bhd                                              15,000,000         1.11
8. Hia Cheng                                                                   13,095,671
9. Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
10. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
         Employees Provident Fund Board
11. Tay Hoe Chin
12. Tay How Yeh
Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 267

   ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

                                            AS AT 12 APRIL 2024

GUAN CHONG BERHAD – ORDINARY SHARES (CONTINUED)                                  No. of     %*
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                         Shares held      0.98

No. Name of Shareholders                                                   11,463,800     0.97

13. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                  11,423,100     0.95
         Employees Provident Fund Board (Asianislamic)
                                                                           11,175,000     0.68
14. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                                 0.64
         Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (LEEF)              8,000,000
                                                                            7,500,000     0.62
15. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd                                                    0.62
         Exempt An For Citibank New York (Norges Bank 19)                   7,300,000
                                                                            7,236,877     0.61
16. Tan Bak Keng @ Tang Ka Guek
17. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad                       7,216,059     0.55

         Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad For Hong Leong Balanced Fund     6,416,400     0.54
18. Tay See Min                                                                           0.52
19. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                   6,343,595     0.52
                                                                            6,083,837     0.51
         Employees Provident Fund Board (Islamic)                           6,071,207     0.50
20. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                         5,998,839
                                                                            5,877,301     0.43
         Pledged Securities Account For Hia Cheng                                         0.43
21. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                5,100,000
                                                                            4,999,300     0.41
         Pledged Securities Account For Tay Hock Soon (MY1055)                            0.40
22. Chan Lee Yin                                                            4,833,333
23. Tay Lie Siang                                                           4,752,466    80.89
24. Tay Lee Goh
25. Tay Lee Shein                                                        950,049,774
26. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd

         J.P. Morgan Securities PLC
27. T & T Family Sdn Bhd
28. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd

         Urusharta Jamaah Sdn. Bhd. (2)
29. Hia Sin Yee
30. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd

         SSBT Fund J724 For SPDR Portfolio Emerging Markets ETF
Total

Note:
* Excluding 400,000 shares held as treasury shares.
268 OTHER INFORMATION                                                                              GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Twentieth Annual General Meeting of GUAN CHONG BERHAD (“GCB” or “the
Company”) will be held at Praline & Truffle, ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri, 1 Nusa Sentrum Complex, Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC
Industrial Park, 79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor on Monday, 27 May 2024 at 11.00 a.m. for the transaction of the following
businesses:

AGENDA                                                                                             Ordinary Resolution 1

As Ordinary Business                                                                               Ordinary Resolution 2
                                                                                                   Ordinary Resolution 3
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December            Ordinary Resolution 4
       2023 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.

2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits up to RM500,000 for the
       financial year ending 31 December 2024 payable monthly in arrears after each month of
       completed service of the Directors during the subject financial year.

3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 91 of the
       Company’s Constitution:

       i) Ang Nyee Nyee

       ii) Tay Hoe Lian

4. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
       Directors to fix their remuneration.

As Special Business                                                                                Ordinary Resolution 5

To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions with or without any
modifications as resolutions:

5. Proposed renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to
       Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”)

       “THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, Main Market Listing Requirements of
       Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Constitution of the Company and the approvals of
       the relevant regulatory authorities (where applicable), the Directors of the Company be
       hereby authorised to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company, grant rights to
       subscribe for shares in the Company, convert any securities into shares in the Company,
       or allot shares under an agreement(s) or option(s) or offer(s) (“New Shares”) from time
       to time, at such price, to such persons and for such purposes and upon such terms and
       conditions as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit and expedient in the
       interest of the Company without first offer to the existing shareholders of the Company,
       provided that the aggregate number of such New Shares to be issued, to be subscribed
       under any rights granted, to be issued from conversion of any security, or to be issued
       and allotted under an agreement or option or offer, pursuant to this resolution, when
       aggregated with the total number of any such shares issued during the preceding 12
       months does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company
       (excluding treasury shares, if any) for the time being (“Proposed General Mandate”).
               Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 269

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

       THAT such approval on the Proposed General Mandate shall continue to be in force           Ordinary Resolution 6
       until:

       a. the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held
               after the approval was given;

       b. the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
               to be held after the approval was given; or

       c. revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company in a
               general meeting, whichever is the earlier.

       THAT the Directors of the Company be hereby also empowered to obtain the approval
       from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad for the listing of and quotation for such New
       Shares on the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

       AND THAT authority be hereby given to the Directors of the Company, to implement,
       finalise, complete and take all necessary steps and to do all acts (including execute
       such documents as may be required), deeds and things in relation thereto as to give
       effect to the Proposed General Mandate with full powers to assent to any conditions,
       modifications, variations and/or amendments as they may deem fit in the best interest
       of the Company and/or as may be imposed by the relevant authorities."

6. Proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party
       transactions of a revenue or trading nature (“RRPT”)

       “THAT pursuant to paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
       Malaysia Securities Berhad, approval be hereby given for the renewal of shareholders’
       mandate for the Company and its subsidiaries (“GCB Group”) to enter into and to give
       effect to specified RRPT and with the related parties as stated in Section 4.3 of the
       Circular to Shareholders dated 26 April 2024, which are necessary for its day-to-day
       operations, to be entered into by the GCB Group on the basis that these transactions
       are or to be entered into on terms which are not more favorable to the Related Parties
       involved than generally available to the public and are not detrimental to the minority
       shareholders of the Company (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”);

       THAT the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate is subject to annual renewal. In this respect,
       any authority conferred by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate shall only continue to
       be in force until:

       (a) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general meeting at
               which the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate has been passed, at which time it will
               lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the meeting, the authority is renewed; or

       (b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after the date it is required
               to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall not extend to such
               extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
270 OTHER INFORMATION                                                                               GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

       (c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting,         Ordinary Resolution 7

       whichever is the earlier;

       AND THAT the Directors of the Company and/or any of them be hereby authorised to
       complete and do all such acts and things (including executing such documents as may
       be required) to give effect to the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”

7. Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary
       shares up to ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital

       “THAT, subject to compliance with the Act, the Company’s Constitution, the Main Market
       Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and all other applicable laws,
       regulations, guidelines, the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory
       authorities, the Company be hereby given full authority to seek shareholders’ approval
       for the renewal of authority for the Company to purchase such amount of ordinary shares
       in the Company (“Shares”) through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad upon such terms
       and conditions as the Directors may deem fit in the interest of the Company provided
       that:

       (i) the aggregate number of Shares so purchased and/or held pursuant to this ordinary
               resolution (“Purchased Shares”) does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total
               issued share capital of the Company; and

       (ii) the maximum amount of funds to be allocated for the Purchased Shares shall not
               exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company;

       THAT the Directors be hereby authorised to decide at their discretion either to retain
       the Purchased Shares as treasury shares (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/
       or to cancel the Purchased Shares and/or to retain the Purchased Shares as treasury
       shares for distribution as share dividends to the shareholders of the Company and/or be
       resold through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in accordance with the relevant rules
       of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and/or cancelled subsequently and/or to retain part
       of the Purchased Shares as treasury shares and/or cancel the remainder and to deal
       with the Purchased Shares in such other manner as may be permitted by the Act, rules,
       regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
       and any other relevant authorities for the time being in force;

       AND THAT such approval and authorisation shall only continue to be in force until:

       (i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the general meeting at
               which such resolution was passed at which time it shall lapse unless by ordinary
               resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally
               or subject to conditions; or

       (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after that date is required
               by law to be held; or

       (iii) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
               Company in a general meeting;
                                                                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 271

                                                        NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

       whichever occurs first;

       AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all such acts and
       things (including, without limitation executing all such documents as may be required)
       as they may consider expedient or necessary to give full effect to this mandate.”

8. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance
       with the Act.

By order of the Board,

NG MEI WAN
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000801) (MIA 28862)
TAN HUI KHIM
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000859) (LS 0009936)
Company Secretaries

Muar, Johor
26 April 2024

Notes:

1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2024 shall be regarded as members
       and be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).

2 A member shall be entitled to appoint any person as his/her proxy to attend and vote instead of the Member at the
       AGM. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at AGM
       shall have the same rights as the Member to speak at AGM.

3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
       multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
       which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.

4. Where a Member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act, it may appoint at least
       one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company. In the event member
       appoint more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her
       shareholding to be represented by each proxy.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his/her attorney duly
       authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the corporation's common seal or under the
       hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. The Directors may but shall not be bound to require evidence of the
       authority of any such attorney or officer. A proxy may but need not be a Member of the Company. The instrument
       appointing a proxy shall be deemed to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.

6. In the event the member(s) duly executes the Form of Proxy but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be
       deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as his/her/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the
       Form of Proxy, other than the particulars of the proxy, have been duly completed by the member(s).
272 OTHER INFORMATION             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a
       notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrars of the Company situated
       at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor or by
       email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670 or lodged electronically via Boardroom
       Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
       the time appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market
       Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to
       vote by way of poll. For electronic lodgement please refer to the Administrative Guide of AGM.

Explanatory Notes:

8. Item 1 of the Agenda
       Audited Financial Statements

       This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a
       formal approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.

9. Item 2 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 1
       Approval of Directors’ fees and benefits for the financial year ending 31 December 2024

       Directors’ fees and benefits approved for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were RM500,000. The Directors’
       fees and benefits proposed for the financial year ending 31 December 2024 are calculated based on the number of
       scheduled Board and Committee Meetings for year 2024 and assuming that all Non-Executive Directors will hold
       office until the conclusion of the next AGM.

       This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and benefits on current financial year basis. In the event the
       Directors’ fees and benefits proposed are insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings), approval will be sought at the next
       AGM for additional fees and benefits to meet the shortfall.

10. Item 5 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 5
       Proposed renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act

       (a) The proposed Ordinary Resolution 5, if passed, will grant a mandate (“General Mandate”) empowering the
               Directors of the Company, from the date of the AGM to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company,
               grant rights to subscribe for shares in the Company, convert any securities into shares in the Company, or allot
               shares under an agreement(s) or option(s) or offer(s) (“New Shares”) from time to time, at such price, to such
               persons and for such purposes and upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may in their absolute
               discretion deem fit and expedient in the interest of the Company up to an amount not exceeding ten percent
               (10%) of the total number of issued shares capital of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied at
               a general meeting shall continue to be in full force until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

       (b) The General Mandate is a renewal of the previous mandate obtained at the last AGM held on 31 May 2023
               which will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.

       (c) As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not issue any new ordinary shares based on the previous
               mandate obtained at the last AGM.

       (d) The General Mandate, if granted will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
               including but not limited to further placing of shares, for purpose of funding current and/or future investment
               project(s), working capital and/or acquisitions.
                                                                                                           Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 273

                                                        NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

       (e) In accordance with Clause 9 of the Company’s Constitution, the passing of the Ordinary Resolution 5, the
               shareholders of the Company shall be taken as agree for the New Shares to be issued to such person(s) as
               the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of the Company without first offer the New Shares to
               holders of existing issued shares of the Company prior to issuance of the New Shares.

11. Item 6 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 6
       Proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading
       nature (“RRPT”) (“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”)

       The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, will approve RRPT which are necessary for the GCB Group’s day-to-
       day operations to be entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with the respective related parties from the
       forthcoming AGM to the next AGM; subject to the condition that the transactions are entered into on terms which
       are not more favorable to the related parties involved than generally available to the public and are not detrimental
       to the minority shareholders of the Company. Further details on the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate are provided
       in the Circular to Shareholders dated 26 April 2024.

12. Item 7 of the Agenda – Ordinary Resolution 7
       Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to ten percent (10%)
       of its issued share capital

       The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will allow the Directors of the Company to exercise the power of the
       Company to purchase not more than ten percent (10%) of the total issued share capital of the Company at any time
       within the time period stipulated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. This
       authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, shall continue to be in full force until the
       conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

       Further details are set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated 26 April 2024.

13. ANNUAL REPORT

       The Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 is now available at the Company’s corporate
       website, www.gcbcocoa.com. Printed copy of the Annual Report shall be provided to the shareholders upon request
       soonest possible from the date of receipt of the request.

       Shareholders who wish to receive the printed Annual Report may email your request to Boardroom Share Registrars
       Sdn. Bhd. [199601006647 (378993-D)] at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.

STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

1. Details of Individuals Standing for Election as Directors

       No individual is seeking election as a Director at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company.

2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the
       Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

       Please refer to item 10 – Explanatory Notes to the Agenda for Ordinary Resolution 5 on Proposed renewal of
       authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
274 OTHER INFORMATION                                             GUAN CHONG BERHAD

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

Dear Shareholders
Greeting from GUAN CHONG BERHAD
(A) Details of the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM”)

Date       : Monday, 27 May 2024
Time
Venue      : 11:00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof

           : Praline & Truffle,
            ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri,
            1 Nusa Sentrum Complex,
            Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC Industrial Park,
            79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor

(B) Registration

1. Registration will start at 10.00 a.m. on Monday, 27 May 2024.
2. Kindly produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) to the registration staff at the registration counter

       for verification. Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
3. Upon verification, you are required to sign on the Attendance list prepared by the registration staff.
4. After registration, a polling slip will be issued to the respective shareholders and/or proxy holders and will only

       be given a wristband as identification in order to vote.
5. No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person, even with the original MyKad/Passport of

       that person.
6. The registration counter will handle only the verification of identity and registration.
7. Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
8. For any clarification or enquiry, please proceed to the Company’s Helpdesk at the registration counter.
9. Poll Administrator’s Helpdesk will handle the revocation of a proxy’s appointment.

(C) Entitlement to Participate in the AGM

Only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2024 shall be entitled to attend the
20th AGM or appoint proxy(ies)/corporate representative(s)/attorney to attend and to vote in his/her stead. A proxy
must be 18 years and above and need not be a member of the Company.

(D) Proxy

1. A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint proxy/proxies, to attend and vote instead of him/her.
       If you are unable to attend the meeting and wish to appoint a proxy to vote on your behalf, please submit your
       Form of Proxy in accordance with the notes and instructions printed therein.

2. You may submit your Form of Proxy to the office of the Share Registrar of our Company, Boardroom Share
       Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“BSR”) or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670.
       We do not acknowledge receipt of the form(s) of proxy.

3. The proxy appointment may also be lodged electronically via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
       https://investor.boardroomlimited.com or email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com which is free and
       available to all shareholders. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment via
       BSIP.
                    Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 275

                               ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

Table 1 – Proxy Appointment via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”)

Step 1 –         Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not
Register Online  required to register again. You may proceed to Step 2.
with Boardroom
Smart Investor   • Access the website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
Portal           • Click “Register” to sign up as a user.
                 • Please select the correct account type i.e. sign up as “Shareholder” or “Corporate
(For first time
registration            Holder”.
only)            • Complete registration with all the required information. Upload and attach a

                        softcopy of your Identity Card (NRIC) (front and back) or Passport. Click “Register”.
                 • For Corporate Holder, kindly upload the authorisation letter as well, Click “Sign

                        Up”.
                 • You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on

                        “Verify Email Address” from the email received to continue with the registration.
                 • Once your email address is verified, you will be re-direct to BSIP Online for

                        verification of mobile number.
                 • Click on “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered

                        mobile number. You will need to enter the OTP Code and click “Enter” to complete
                        the process.
                 • Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be
                        pending for final verification.
                 • An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one
                        (1) business day. Subsequently, you can login at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
                        com with the email address and password filled up by you during the registration to
                        proceed.

Step 2 –         •  Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password
                    from Step 1 above.
Appointment of      Click “Meeting Event(s)” and select from list of companies “GUAN CHONG
                    BERHAD 20TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
Proxy            •  Click “Submit eProxy Form”.
                    Select the company you would like to represent (if you represent more than one
                 •  company, for Corporate Shareholder).
                 •  Enter your CDS Account Number and number of Securities held.
                    Select your proxy — either the Chairman of the meeting or individual named
                 •  proxy(ies) and enter the required particulars of your proxy(ies).
                 •  Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions and click “Next”.
                    Enter the required particulars of your proxy(ies).
                 •  Indicate your voting instructions — “FOR” or “AGAINST” or “ABSTAIN”. If
                 •  you wish to have your proxy(ies) to act upon his/her discretion, please indicate
                 •  “DISCRETIONARY”.
                    Click “Apply”. Download or print the eProxy Form as acknowledgement.
                 •

                 Note for Corporate Shareholders: if you are representing more than one (1) company,
                 kindly click the home button and select “Edit Profile” in order to add Company.

                 Corporate Shareholders (via email)
                 • Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member,

                        CDS Account Number accompanied with the Certificate of Appointment of Corporate
                        Representative or Form of Proxy (as the case may be) to submit the request latest by
                        25 May 2024 at 11:00 a.m.
                 • Please provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s or Proxy’s Identity Card (front
                        and back) or Passport as well as his/her email address.
276 OTHER INFORMATION   GUAN CHONG BERHAD

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

                                            Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee

                                            Via BSIP
                                            • Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password

                                                    from Step 1 above.
                                            • Select “GUAN CHONG BERHAD 20TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the

                                                    list of Meeting Event(s) and click “Enter”.
                                            • Click on “Submit eProxy Form”.
                                            • Select the company you would like to represent (if you represent more than one

                                                    company).
                                            • Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” from BSIP.
                                            • Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
                                            • Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
                                            • Review and confirm your proxy appointment and click “Submit”.
                                            • Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.

                                            Note: if you are representing more than one (1) company, kindly click the home button and
                                            select “Edit Profile” in order to add Company.

                                            Via email
                                            • To submit the request, Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee

                                                    need to deposit the original hardcopy Form of Proxy to BSR and write in to BSR at
                                                    bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing softcopy of the Form of Proxy,
                                                    the name of shareholders and CDS Account Number.
                                            • Please provide a copy of the proxy holder’s MyKad/Identification Card (front and
                                                    back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format as well as his/her email address.

       4. If you wish to attend the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy. You will not be allowed to
               attend the Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.

       5. If you have submitted your Form of Proxy prior to the meeting and subsequently decided to attend the meeting
               yourself, please proceed to the Poll Administrator’s Helpdesk to revoke the appointment of your proxy.

(E) Poll Voting

       1. In accordance with Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
               Berhad, the voting at the 20th AGM will be conducted by poll. Poll Administrator and Independent Scrutineers
               will be appointed to conduct the polling process and verify the results of the poll respectively.

       2. The Poll Administrator will be available to brief and/or guide all 20th AGM Attendees before the commencement
               of and during the voting process.

       3. Upon completion of the voting session for the 20th AGM, the Scrutineers will verify and announce the poll
               results followed by the Chairman’s declaration of whether the resolutions are duly passed.
                                                     Integrated Annual Report 2023 OTHER INFORMATION 277

                                                                ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

(F) Annual Report 2023

       1. The Company’s Annual Report 2023, Form of Proxy, Corporate Governance Report and Administrative Guide
               are available on the following websites:

               • https://www.bursamalaysia.com
               • https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports

       2. If you wish to request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2023, please complete and send the Requisition Form
               which can be downloaded from the Company’s website at https://www.gcbcocoa.com/content/annual-reports
               and email the same to the Share Registrar or login to Boardroom Smart Investor Online Portal at
               https://investor.boardroomlimited.com and select “Request Annual Report” under “Investor service” to submit
               your request.

       3. Kindly think of the environment before you decide to print the Annual Report 2023. We would appreciate your
               support by joining us to promote “Act Green” initiative to achieve environmentally responsible and paperless.

(G) Enquiry

       If you have any queries prior to the meeting, please contact the following officers during office hours:

       Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
       [199601006647 (378993-D)]
       11th Floor, Menara Symphony
       No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
       46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor

Tel No.  : +603-7890 4700 / 4716 / 4704

Fax No.  : +603-7890 4670

Email Address : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
                          mohamed.sophiee@boardroomlimited.com
                          nuratiqah.arif@boardroomlimited.com

Contact Person : Encik Mohamed Sophiee Ahmad Nawawi
                          Cik Nur Atiqah Mohd Arif
This page is intentionally left blank.
REGISTRATION NO.: 200401007722 (646226-K)                                                               FORM OF PROXY
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
                                                                                                       No. of Shares held
                                                                                                       CDS Account No.

I/We                                                   NRIC/Passport/Registration No.

            (full name in capital letters)

of
                                                                                       (full address)

being a member/members of GUAN CHONG BERHAD, hereby appoint

                                                       NRIC/Passport No.

            (full name in capital letters)

of
                                                                                       (full address)

and/or                                                 NRIC/Passport No.

            (full name in capital letters)

of
                                                                                       (full address)

or failing him/her*, the CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our* proxy to vote for me/us* on my/our* behalf at the
Twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company at Praline & Truffle, ibis Styles Johor Iskandar Puteri, 1 Nusa Sentrum
Complex, Jalan SiLC 2/9, SiLC Industrial Park, 79200 Iskandar Puteri, Johor on Monday, 27 May 2024 at 11.00 a.m. and at
any adjournment thereof in respect of my/our* shareholding in the manner indicated below:-

No. Ordinary Resolution                                                                                For  Against

1 Approval of Directors’ fees and benefits for the financial year ending
        31 December 2024

2 Re-election of Ang Nyee Nyee as Director

3 Re-election of Tay Hoe Lian as Director

4 Re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors

5 Renewal of authority for Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections
        75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016

6 Renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a
        revenue or trading nature

7 Renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to
        ten percent (10%) of its issued share capital

[Please indicate with a “X” in the spaces provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In
the absence of specific instructions, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit]

For appointment of two proxies, percentage of shareholdings to be represented by the proxies:

Proxy       No. of Shares                  Percentage
1
2                                          100%
Total

                                                                                                       Signature of Shareholder or Common Seal

Dated this  day of                         2024
Fold this flap for sealing

Notes:

1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2024 shall be regarded as members and be entitled to attend, participate,
      speak and vote at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).

2 A member shall be entitled to appoint any person as his/her proxy to attend and vote instead of the Member at the AGM. There shall be no restriction
      as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at AGM shall have the same rights as the Member to speak at AGM.

3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
      securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each
      Omnibus Account it holds.

4. Where a Member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act, it may appoint at least one (1) proxy in respect of each
      securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company. In the event member appoint more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid
      unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholding to be represented by each proxy.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his/her attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer
      is a corporation, either under the corporation's common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. The Directors may but shall not
      be bound to require evidence of the authority of any such attorney or officer. A proxy may but need not be a Member of the Company. The instrument
      appointing a proxy shall be deemed to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.

Then fold here

                                             AFFIX
                                             STAMP

                  The Share Registrar
   Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199601006647 (378993-D)

            11th Floor, Menara Symphony
          No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
  Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor

1st fold here

6. In the event the member(s) duly executes the Form of Proxy but does not name any proxy, such member(s) shall be deemed to have appointed the
      Chairman of the Meeting as his/her/their proxy, provided always that the rest of the Form of Proxy, other than the particulars of the proxy, have been duly
      completed by the member(s).

7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that
      power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrars of the Company situated at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
      Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or by fax +603-7890 4670 or lodged electronically via
      Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
      holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
      requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to vote by way of poll. For electronic lodgement please refer to the Administrative Guide of AGM.

Personal Data Privacy

By submitting the duly executed Form of Proxy, the member and his/her proxy consent to the Company (and/or its agents/service providers) collecting, using
and disclosing the personal data therein in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 for the purpose of the Twentieth Annual General Meeting
and any adjournment thereof.
                200401007722 (646226-K)

PLO 273, Jalan Timah 2,
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia.
Tel : +6 07 254 8888
Email : info@gcbcocoa.com
www.gcbcocoa.com
