E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
189, Jalan Tun Razak
50400 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: +6(03) 2181 0516 Fax: +6(03) 2181 0516

Company Registration Number: 200900709K
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the ”Company”or ”China Ouhua”) was incorporated in Singapore in 2009,
and holds 95% equity of Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd., and holds 100% equity of Recap Resources
Sdn Bhd. The Company was successfully listed on Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (”Bursa
Securities”) on 3 November 2010, making the Company the first winery company ever listed on Bursa Securities.
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd. (”Yantai Fazenda Ouhua”) was founded in 1997. The winery is situated in
Yantai, Shandong, People’s Republic of China (”PRC”)—the only ”International Grape City”in Asia. The main
business of Yantai Fazenda Ouhua involves brewing, bottling, sales and distribution of grape wine in the PRC.
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua currently possesses numerous advanced grape wine production equipment imported from
Italy. China Ouhua is a company with long history in grape wine production.
Recap Resources Sdn Bhd was founded in Malaysia in 2019, and was winded up in 2024 .

       中国欧华葡萄酒控股有限公司是2009在新加坡注册成立的控股公司，主要控股中国烟台欧华葡萄酿酒有限公司95%的股
权，并于2010年11月3号在马来西亚交易所主板成功挂牌，是马交所第一家葡萄酒挂牌公司。

        所控股的烟台欧华葡萄酿酒有限公司成立于1997年，公司位于亚洲唯一的“国际葡萄酒城”—烟台，是一家集酿造，灌
装及销售为一体的专业葡萄酒公司。其生产的葡萄酒产品主要在中国市场销售。公司拥有先进的意大利进口专用灌装设，一家
有着较长历史的专业葡萄酒制造公司。

                                          Annual Report 2024
-------------------------------Notice of Annual General Meeting

                                 Annual Report 2024
           CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                  (Company Registration Number 200900709K)

(Malaysia Foreign Company Registration No. 200902000053 (995226-U))

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 2025 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of China
Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (“China Ouhua” or the “Company”) will be held at Level 18,
Vida Bukit Ceylon, No 1D Jalan Ceylon, 50200 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on
Thursday, 26 June 2025 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the purpose of
considering and if thought fit, passing with or without modifications the following resolutions:

                       AGENDA

As Ordinary Business:

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended [Please refer to

31 December 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Explanatory

Auditors thereon.                                                           Note 1]

2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for an amount not exceeding Resolution 1
       RM92,000.00 for the financial year ending 31 December 2025.

3. To re-elect Wang, Chao, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the Resolution 2
       Constitution of the Company.

4. To re-elect Zhang, FuWei, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the Resolution 3
       Constitution of the Company.

5. To re-elect Chen, AnLi, retiring pursuant to Clause 117 of the Resolution 4
       Constitution of the Company.

6. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Resolution 5
       Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

As Special Business:

To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the
following ordinary resolutions:

7. Ordinary Resolution
       Authority to issue and allot new ordinary shares pursuant to Section Resolution 6
       161 of the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore (“the Act”)

“THAT, pursuant to Section 161 of the Act and the Constitution of the
Company and subject to the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and other relevant government/regulatory authorities, where
such approval is necessary, the Directors of the Company be and are
hereby empowered pursuant to Section 161 of the Act to issue shares in
the capital of the Company at any time until the conclusion of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date by which the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company is required by law to be held,
whichever is the earlier, and upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes and to such persons as the Board of Directors may, in
their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number
of shares to be issued does not exceed 10% of the issued and paid-up
share capital (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time

                                                                                              2
       being AND THAT the Board of Directors be and is also empowered to
       obtain approval for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares
       so issued on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.”
8. Ordinary Resolution
       Authority to continue in office as Independent Non-Executive Resolution 7
       Director
       “THAT approval be and is hereby given to Sun Huifeng who has served
       as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a
       cumulative term of more than nine years, to continue act as an
       Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and to hold office
       until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.”
9. Ordinary Resolution
       Authority to continue in office as Independent Non-Executive Resolution 8
       Director
       “THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 3, approval be and is
       hereby given to Zhang FuWei who has served as Independent Non-
       Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than
       nine years, to continue act as an Independent Non-Executive Director of
       the Company and to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of
       the Company.”
10. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been
       given.

BY ORDER OF THE BOARD

YANG BIN (ISCA 818941)
Company Secretary
30 April 2025

3
Notes:

1. A member of the Company shall be entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to
        exercise all or any of his rights to attend, participate, speak and vote at meeting of members
        of the Company. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting,
        provided that the member specifies the proportion of the member’s shareholdings to be
        represented by each proxy. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities
        Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 (“SICDA”), it may appoint not more than two (2)
        proxies in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company
        standing to the credit of the said securities account.

3. For a member of the Company who is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary
        shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account
        (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
        authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
        authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under SICDA which is
        exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.

4. Where a member or the authorised nominee appoints more than two (2) proxies, or where
        an exempt authorised nominee appoints more than one (1) proxy in respect of each omnibus
        account to attend and vote at the same meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless the
        proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy is specified in the instrument
        appointing the proxies.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing signed by the appointor or by his
        attorney who is authorised in writing. In the case of a corporation, the instrument
        appointing proxy(ies) must be made either under its common seal or signed by an officer or
        an attorney duly authorised.

6. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the
        following manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48)
        hours before the time appointed for holding the 2025 AGM or adjourned general meeting at
        which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:

        (i) In hard copy form

             In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the Proxy Form must be
             deposited at the Share Registrar’s office at GAP Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan
             Avenue 1, 189, Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

        (ii) By electronic form

             The Proxy Form can be email to ir.shareregistry@gapadvisory.my.

 7. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Proxy Form are completed, signed and
        dated accordingly.

 8. Last date and time for lodging the Proxy Form is Tuesday, 24 June 2025 at 10:00 a.m.

 9. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must
        be deposited with the Share Registrar’s office at Gap Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan
        Avenue 1, 189, Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not
        less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 2025 AGM or
        adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.

                                                                                                                                                 4
       A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially
       and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in
       which it is executed.

10. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the
       ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED certificate of appointment of authorised representative
       with the Share Registrar’s office at GAP Advisory Sdn Bhd, E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1, 189,
       Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of
       appointment of authorised representative should be executed in the following manner:

        (i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be
             executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

        (ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment
             should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and
             executed by:
             (a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
             (b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country
                  under which the corporate member is incorporated.

11. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this 2025 AGM, the
       Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the
       Company, the Record of Depositors as at 18 June 2025. Only a member whose name
       appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this 2025 AGM or
       appoint proxies to attend and vote in his stead.

(i) PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY

   By submitting a proxy form appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak
   and vote at the Annual General Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the
   Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by
   the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the
   Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the Annual General
   Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the
   attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the Annual General Meeting
   (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply
   with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the
   “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s
   proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained
   the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and
   disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or
   representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the
   Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a
   result of the member’s breach of warranty.

(ii) EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS:

   1.  Agenda Item No. 1 – Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year

       Ended 31 December 2025

       This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 203(1)
       of the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore does not require a formal
       approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this
       item is not put forward to shareholders for voting.

5
2.  Resolution 1 – Payment of Directors’ Fees

    The Directors’ fees proposed for the financial year ending 31 December 2025 are
    calculated based on the assumption that all Directors will hold office until the end
    of the financial year. This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees on
    current financial year basis. In the event the Directors’ fees proposed is
    insufficient (e.g. due to the enlarged Board size), approval will be sought at the
    next Annual General Meeting for additional fees to meet the shortfall.

3.  Resolutions 2, 3 and 4 – Re-election of Directors

    Please refer to the Statement Accompanying the Notice of AGM for information.

4.  Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditors

    The Board, through the Audit Committee (“AC”) has considered the re-
    appointment of Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. (“UHY”) as the Auditors of
    the Company. The factors considered by the AC in making the recommendation to
    the Board to table the re-appointment of UHY at the 2025 AGM are disclosed in
    the Corporate Governance Overview Statement of this Annual Report.

(iii) EXPLANATORY NOTE ON SPECIAL BUSINESS:

5.  Resolution 6 – Authority to Allot and Issue Shares

    The Ordinary Resolution proposed under Resolution 6 is the renewal of the
    mandate obtained from the members at the last Annual General Meeting (“the
    previous mandate”). The previous mandate was not utilized and accordingly no
    proceeds were raised.

    The Ordinary Resolution proposed under Resolution 6, if passed, will give the
    Directors of the Company, from the date of the above Meeting, the authority to
    issue and allot ordinary shares from the unissued share capital of the Company up
    to an amount not exceeding in total ten per centum (10%) of the issued and paid
    up Share Capital (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for such purposes as
    the Directors consider would be in the interest of the Company.

    This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting,
    shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of
    the Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting of the
    Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier.

    The General Mandate is to provide flexibility to the Company to issue new
    securities without the need to convene separate general meeting to obtain its
    shareholders’ approval so as to avoid incurring additional cost and time. The
    purpose of this general mandate is for possible fund raising exercise including but
    not limited to further placement of shares for purpose of funding current and/or
    future investment projects, working capital, repayment of bank borrowings,
    acquisitions and/or for issuance of shares as settlement of purchase consideration.

    As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not issue shares pursuant to the
    mandate granted to the Directors at the 2024 Annual General Meeting held on 28
    June 2024.

6.  Resolutions 7 and 8 – Continuation in Office as Independent Directors

                                                                                           6
                 Pursuant to the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, it is recommended that
                 approval of shareholders be sought in the event the Company intends to retain an
                 Independent Director who has served in that capacity for more than nine (9) years.

                 Sun Huifeng was appointed to the Board on 27 September 2013 as Independent
                 Director. Hence, he has served for more than nine (9) years.

                 The NC and the Board had assessed the independence of Sun Huifeng and
                 recommended him to continue to act as an Independent Non-Executive Director of
                 the Company based on the following justifications:-

                  (i) Sun Huifeng has passed through the fit and proper assessment, and he has
                           made constructive proposal at the board meeting, take the board matters
                           seriously and act responsible for the board.

                  (ii) Sun Huifeng is a financial expert, together with many years audit
                           experiences, so he is very fit with the audit committee’s position.

                  (iii) Although he has served on the Board for more than nine (9) years, it has
                           not impaired his independence.

                 Zhang Fuwei was appointed to the Board on 15 January 2014 as Independent
                 Director. Hence, he has served for more than nine (9) years.

                 The NC and the Board had assessed the independence of Zhang Fuwei and
                 recommended him to continue to act as an Independent Non-Executive Director of
                 the Company based on the following justifications:-

                  (i) Zhang Fuwei has passed through the fit and proper assessment, and he has
                           made constructive proposal at the board meeting, take the board matters
                           seriously and act responsible for the board.

                  (ii) Zhang Fuwei has many years of management experiences, and he also
                           made a good job in reducing salary costs, meanwhile keeping morale.

                  (iii) Although he has served on the Board for more than nine (9) years, it has
                           not impaired his independence.

                 The Ordinary Resolutions proposed under Resolutions 7 and 8, if passed, will
                 enable Sun Huifeng and Zhang Fuwei to continue to act as an Independent Non-
                 Executive Directors of the Company.

                 Pursuant to Practice 5.3 of the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance, the
                 Company will adopt the two-tier voting process in seeking shareholders’ approval
                 for the ordinary resolutions.

STATEMENT
ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

[Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad]

Election/Appointment as Directors

There are no individuals standing for election/appointment as Directors at the 2025 Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”).

7
The Directors who are standing for re-election are Wang, Chao, Zhang, FuWei and Chen, AnLi,
whose profiles are set out on in the 2024 Annual Report.

The Board has through the Nomination Committee (“NC”), considered the assessment of Wang,
Chao, Zhang, FuWei and Chen, AnLi and agreed that they met the criteria as prescribed by
Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) on character, experience, integrity, competence and time to effectively
discharge their roles as Directors. The Directors have also met the relevant requirements under the
fit and proper assessment and confirmed that they do not have any conflict of interest or potential
conflict of interest, including interest in any business that is in competition with the Company. The
NC and the Board had also undertaken an annual assessment on the independence of Zhang,
FuWei and Chen, AnLi.

In addition to the above, the Board supports and recommended the re-election of Wang, Chao,
Zhang, FuWei and Chen, AnLi as Directors of the Company based on the following:-

1. Wang, Chao

    Mr Wang was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009 and subsequently appointed as
    Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on 23 November 2009. His experience in the
    finance and banking industry prior to founding our Group, coupled with his drive and passion
    for our wine business have been instrumental to our Group's success to date. He has
    conceptualised and implemented various strategies that have led our Group to current position
    in the PRC wine industry. The Board is of the view that Mr. Wang, Chao has shown high level
    of dedication and commitment to his role as an Executive Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer and his contribution was beneficial to the Company.

2. Zhang, FuWei

    Mr Zhang was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company on 15
    January 2014. He fulfils the requirement of independence set out in the Main Market Listing
    Requirements of Bursa Securities. He remains objective and independent in expressing his
    view and participating in Board’s deliberation and decision making process. The Board is of
    the view that Mr Zhang has shown high level of dedication and commitment to his role as an
    Independent Non-Executive Director and his contribution was beneficial to the Company.

3. Chen, AnLi

    Ms Chen was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company on 28
    February 2025. She fulfils the requirement of independence set out in the Main Market Listing
    Requirements of Bursa Securities. She remains objective and independent in expressing her
    view and participating in Board’s deliberation and decision making process. The Board is of
    the view that Ms Chen has shown high level of dedication and commitment to her role as an
    Independent Non-Executive Director and her contribution was beneficial to the Company.

General Mandate for Issue of Securities

Kindly refer to item 5 of the Explanatory Notes on Special Business as contained in the Notice of
AGM.

                                                                                                                                                 8
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   9
                                               Corporate Information

AUDIT COMMITTEE                                AGENT IN MALAYSIA

SUN HUIFENG                                    GAP Advisory Sdn. Bhd. (202001042098 (1398419-T
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)  ))
ZHANG FUWEI                                    E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    189, Jalan Tun Razak
CHIANG KAIMING                                 50400 Kuala Lumpur
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
                                               Tel: +6(03) 2181 0516 Fax: +6(03) 2181 0516
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
                                               AUDITOR
ZHANG FUWEI
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)  UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.
SUN HUIFENG                                    600 1 Beach Road, #14-01 Golden Mile Tower,
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    Singapore 199 589
CHIANG KAIMING                                 Tel: +65 6395 5100 Fax: +65 6298 6263
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
                                               MALAYSIAN SHARE REGISTRAR
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
                                               GAP Advisory Sdn. Bhd. (202001042098 (1398419-T
ZHANG FUWEI                                    ))
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)  E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
SUN HUIFENG                                    189, Jalan Tun Razak
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    50400 Kuala Lumpur
CHIANG KAIMING                                 W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    Tel: +6(03) 2181 0516 Fax: +6(03) 2181 0516

RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE                      PRINCIPAL BANKERS

WANG CHAO                                      China Construction Bank
Chairman (Executive Chairman and CEO)          Bank of China
SUN HUIFENG
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    REGISTERED OFFICE
CHIANG KAIMING
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)    Singapore
                                               60 Paya Lebar Road #08-10 Paya Lebar Square
COMPANY SECRETARY                              Singapore 409051.
                                               Tel: +65- 6816 2449 Fax: +65-6491 5194
Yang Bin（ISCA 818941)                          Malaysia
                                               E-10-4, Megan Avenue 1
                                               189, Jalan Tun Razak
                                               50400 Kuala Lumpur
                                               W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
                                               Tel: +6(03) 2181 0516 Fax: +6(03) 2181 0516

                                               BUSINESS OFFICE

                                               Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd.
                                               No. 3 North Wolong Road
                                               Yan Tai City Shan Dong Province The PRC
                                               Tel: +86-535-6020999 Fax: +86-535-6012708
                                               Email: brucewy@126.com

                                               STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING

                                               Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
                                               Stock name/code: CNOUHUA/5188

                                                        Annual Report 2024
                                                                                                                            10
   Directors’ Profile

                                                          Wang Chao (Key Senior Management)

                                                                                      Wang Chao, Chinese, aged 63, male, is our founder and was
                                                                                       appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009 and
                                                                                       subsequently appointed as Executive Chairman and Chief
                                                                                       Executive Officer ("CEO") on 23 November 2009.
                                                                                      He is also appointed as Chairman of Risk Management
                                                                                      Committee on 27 February 2018.
                                                                                      He is responsible for the overall direction and management
                                                                                      of our Group. He studied in Shandong TV University, PRC
                                                                                      and obtained a Diploma in Industrial Business Management
                                                                                      in 1987. From 1979 to 1997, he held various managerial
                                                                                      positions such as Investment Manager of China
                                                                                      Construction Bank's Yantai Branch, Credit Planning
                                                                                      Manager of the People's Bank of China, Yantai Branch, and
                                                                                      General Manager of Yantai Municipal People's Bank
                                                                                      Industrial Development Corporation.
      He left the banking industry in 1997 to set up Yantai Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd. (”YO Winery”) in order to pursue his
      interest and passion in the wine industry. Since then, Mr. Wang has played a pivotal role in steering our Group's
      growth and success in the wine industry in PRC. His experience in the finance and banking industry prior to founding
      our Group, coupled with his drive and passion for our wine business have been instrumental to our Group's success
      to date. He has conceptualised and implemented various strategies that have led our Group to current position in the
      PRC wine industry.

      He is a member of the Yantai's Chinese People's Political Consultative Committee, a Foreign-owned Enterprise
      Association and the Vice President of Huangwu Chamber of Commerce, Yantai City.

      He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has no
      conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than
      traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the
      financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                                              Annual Report 2024
11
 Directors’ Profile (cont’d)

   Zhang Fuwei

Zhang Fuwei, Chinese, aged 69, male, was appointed as our Independent Non- Executive Director on 15 January 2014.
He is also the Chairman of Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and member of Audit Committee.
Mr Zhang has Bachelor of Science Degree in Physics. Mr Zhang Fuwei (Mr Zhang) joined Yantai Bureau of Standard
Measurement as an Assistant Engineer in August 1979. In February 1984, he joined Yantai Economic Commission as a
Technology Quality Manager, his job scope includes enterprise technology development and management as well as
enterprise quality management. In September 2002, Mr. Zhang joined Yantai Comprehensive Information Center as a
Deputy Controller. He is responsible for enterprise informatisation. He left Yantai Comprehensive Information
Center and joined Yantai Information Industry Bureau as deputy director in May 2003. He is responsible for
management of electric information product. He retired from the position since October 2010.
He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has no
conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other
than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

  Sun HuiFeng

Sun Huifeng, Singaporean, aged 46, male, w as appointed as our Independent Non-Executive Director on 27
 September 2013. He is also the Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Nomination Committee, Remuneration
 Committee and Risk Management Committee.
He is a full member of Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA). He is also a fellow member of the
Association of the Chartered Certified Accounts (FCCA). He obtained Bachelor Degree in applied accounting
from Oxford Brookes University in United Kingdom.
Mr. Sun joined Deloitte & Touche LLP Singapore as an auditor since May 2004, his job scope include general audit
and review, supervision of fieldwork, staff training, IPO consultancy, etc; his client portfolio are from various industries
such as manufacturing, shipping, trading and real estate. He left Deloitte & Touche LLP as Assistant Manager and
join ARA Assets Management Limited (”ARA”) in 2009, his job scope include oversee China subsidiary finance
team's daily operation, annual budget and tax review, he also participated in project acquisition and disposal. Mr.
Sun left ARA as Finance Manager and set up his own business in 2009, mainly focus on accounting, tax, IPO
and management consultancy.
He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has
no conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other
than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                                                                                                          Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                  Directors’ Profile (cont’d)

   Chiang KaiMing

  Chiang KaiMing, Malaysian, aged 46, male, was appointed as our Independent Non- Executive Director on 18 April
  2024.He is member of Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk Management
  Committee.
   Mr. Chiang brings with him more than ten years of experience in principal investments, corporate finance, asset
  allocation and financial markets. His experience spans direct investments and fund investments, and covers both
  private markets and public markets across different strategies and geographies.Mr. Chiang was previously with UTSB
  Management, where he covered the Group's investments in the energy and natural resources sector. He started his career
  with Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong where he was responsible for the structuring and trading of exotic
  derivatives. He later joined Jones Lang LaSalle Sallmanns and Deltec Capital, where he covered principal investments in
  energy, consumer, education and other sectors.
  Mr. Chiang graduated from Middlebury College with majors in physics and economics, and minors in mathematics, French
  and Russian. He also completed Master of Financial Engineering degree at University of Hong Kong. Besides his native
  language of Chinese, he speaks English, Malay, French and Russian. In his free time he enjoys learning ancient languages,
  travelling, the arts and astrophysics.
  He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has no
  conflict of inwterest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
  offences,if any) and there was no sancition or penaity imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
  year.He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

 Chen Anli, Chinese, aged 54, female, was appointed as our Independent Non- Executive Director on 28 February
  2025.
  She graduated with a Master's degree in MBA from the University of Southern California in the United States from 2002 to
  2004, From 2005 to date, She is the Chairman of Malaysia Jiahua International Limited, and also is the Chairman of
  Singapore Ruiheng International Limited.
  She does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. She has no
  conflict of inwterest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
  offences,if any) and there was no sancition or penaity imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
  year.She does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                                               Annual Report 2024
13
Profile of the Key Senior Management

Wang Xizhou

Wang Xizhou, Chinese,  44  Chief Financial Officer 29 May 2

He is a member of the Association of Chartered Accountants(ACA), He is also member of the Chinese Institute of
Certified Public Accountants(CICPA), He graduated from Shandong University of Science and Technology, People's
Republic of China in 2003.
He started his career as a purchasing assistant in Qingdao Oriental Tower Co., Ltd in year 2003. Then, he joined
Qingdao Weekly Group Co., Ltd in year 2004 as a junior accountant and was promoted to Assistant Finance Manager in

 year 2005. In May 2005, he joined a large accounting firm in Qingdao, People's Republic of China as project manager
until today. Mr Wang is an expert in tax law and accounting and he has accumulated 18 years of experience in
assignments related to auditing, tax planning, internal control consulting and financing.

He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has
no conflict of interest with the company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years
(other than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                           Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                              14
                                           Chairman’s Statement

On behalf of the Board of Directors of China
Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (”China
Ouhua”) I am pleased to present the
Annual Report together with the Audited
Financial Statements of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

Introduction

Dear shareholders,
First and foremost, on behalf of the Company, I would like to thank all the shareholders for your continuous

 concern and support for China Ouhua. I would like to report to you the performance of the business
operations of China Ouhua for the year 2024. For the past 12 months, despite the stagnant Chinese winery
market and economic uncertainties, the Company had been proactively sourcing various methods to improve
the business operation by adjusting the product structure, and keeping the Company's core business running
properly. the Company's sale revenue has dropped slightly.
In 2024, the revenue decreased from RMB15.604 million to RMB14.293 million reflecting drop of 8.40%,The net loss
for the year was RMB49.089 million, The higher loss figure in FY2024 was mainly due to impairment loss on PPE of
RMB43.38million, which was caused by drop in market property prices. Eliminate the aforementioned factor the
operating loss in FY2024 was comparable to FY 2023, Both year's operating result was badly affected by stagnant
Chinese wine market, None of red wine and white wine was favoured by the consumers as before.

Basically, the lack of growth in the Company’s core business was caused by both business operation and market
factors. The main factors include the exacerbated competition in Chinese winery market and the increase in
the market share of imported wines in China which had led to a general decline in the sales performance of
major brands of domestic wines. The Company’s product competitiveness has also been affected and the sale
revenue growth has become slower. The wine industry has shown a weak growth, and the profit level has also
declined.

Honours & Awards

The Company has the following honours & awards:
•“Vice-chairman unit”by Yantai Food Safely Association
•“Customer Satisfaction Awards”by China Customers’Association (CCA)
•“AAA Rating in trustworthiness”by Yantai Enterprise Credit Association
•“2nd Tier in Production Safety Standards ”by Yantai Bureau of Production Safety

Prospects

After analyzing the Company’s status in the past few years, the Management has maintained their confidence level
and has been working hard to find other development opportunities.The Chinese winery industry has in recent
years been adversely affected by many factors such as the impact of imported wine and the change in local
consumption market, which has greatly affected the entire local wine industry and there were many enterprises
  encountered losses. Despite of all the above, the wine industry will not collapse.The Company believe that
there willbe opportunities available for the Company’s development and growth. Meanwhile,to fundamentally

  change the current status of the Company, the Company will need to find new development projects. Thus, the
Management has been proactively looking and negotiating for new investment projects in order to drive the
company for on new developments.

                                                                                                   Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                               15
    Chairman’s Statement (cont’d)

    Prospects (cont’d)

                                                                                                 .T

                                                                                                   future

і

The Company has set up online team 1 to look into the possibility of online sales which is still in the exploring stage.
Online sales is very competitive. To compete among the competitors, selling price might need to be lowered. However,
due to the costly charges for online sales platform, the lower selling price had caused low profit margin. The Company
planned to continue exploring the online sales platform in order to achieve better results.

іі

                                     seeking and         proposed prospective business partners  .

    Securities

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   16
In term of Investor Relations, the Company recognises the importance of the relationship and communication
with investors and will not disclose any confidential information to any shareholders or individuals. At the same
time, the Company also recognises the importance of being accountable to investors and has implemented a
communication policy and established a structured communication approach to enable the Board and
Management to communicate effectively with its investors and the general public. Other than the
communication with shareholders during general meetings, the Directors and senior management would also
take initiative to regularly visit major and some minority shareholders, regularly update the Company’s website,
to enable the shareholders to understand better on the Group’s latest operating financial position and the
Group’s future major project development plans.

Dear esteemed shareholders, please believe and have trust with the Management of the Company that we will
work hard and bring the Company into a new development stage. At the same time, I would like to express my
sincere appreciation to all shareholders and thank you for the trust and support rendered all these while. To our
business associates, customers, suppliers, bankers, business analysts and fund managers, we would like to thank
you for your contributions and initiatives. I would like to thank the management and staff of the Company who
have played important roles in contributing to the continued growth of the Company.
Last but not least, I would like to express my gratitude to all who have supported China Ouhua in our business
endeavours and moving forward we are confident we are able to bring the Company to a greater height, faster
development. With the staunch support from shareholders coupled with our hardworking efforts, we are able to
overcome the current challenges and find a new development direction.

Thank you very much.
Wang Chao

Executive Chairman & CEO
30 April 2025

                          Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                              17
                                     2024 12 31

各位股东们大家好，首先我代表中国欧华感谢全体股东对欧华公司一直以来的关心和厚爱。在这里向诸位报告,欧华公

司在过去的2024公司的经营情况，2024年公司面对中国葡萄酒市场的现状和经济                                       ，想尽各种办法改善经营状况

，调整产品结构，使公司基本业保持正常进行，销售收入                                               。

在2024年度内，公司的营业额从去年同期的1560 40                                   1429 30        8 40

4908 90                              2024                               4338

         公司                                      2024          2023

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED        Annual Report 2024

   18
      公司被选为烟台市食品安全协会副会长单位，山东省消费者协会颁发的消费者满意
单位称号，烟台市工商管理局、烟台市企业信用协会颁发的守合同重信用企业称号，
烟台市安全生产管理局颁发的安全生产标准化二级企业称号。

     经过对几年来的公司现状的分析，公司管理层没有丧失信心，并且一直在努力寻找发展机会。中国的葡萄酒市场经过了最
近几年国外葡萄酒进口冲击、国内消费市场变化等诸多原因的影响，使整个行业受到很大的影响，已经有很多企业效益下降
亏损。但是就整个葡萄酒行业来说是不会消失的，只要我们能在葡萄酒这个行业内站住脚，就会有机会发展，可重新成长起
来。同时要使公司从根本上改变现状，必须找到新的发展项目，所以公司管理层一直在积极的洽谈和寻找新的投资项目，使
新业务能够带动公司走上新的发展。为此，公司成立了以董事长为首的新业务领导团队，专门进行新业务的寻找和洽谈。同
时，我们的葡萄酒业务也在积极寻找新的销售方式，比如网上销售和产品定制等方式。目前进口葡萄酒市场占有率虽然发展
很快，但仍未超过国产葡萄酒的占有率。随着国内企业产品结构调整和产品质量提高，一定会有很多企业重新走上新的发展
时期，国产葡萄酒不会被进口葡萄酒彻底取代，仍有发展机会。

     经过2024年的经营过程和总结，我们认为虽然公司面临很大的挑战，但也有发展的机会。只要我们认真分析当前的市场
状况，找出一条适合公司发展的新路，是有可能使公司转变当前的不利状况。我们经过市场分析认为，目前市场上低价位、
大众消费的产品有一定潜在市场，同时公司已经加大进口葡萄酒在国内销售以增加营业额。公司管理层同时还计划找到新的
发展项目，使公司走上新的发展道路，将公司业务提升做大。

     我们一致认识到了做好投资者联系和沟通的必要性，不会向任何股东或个人泄露任何机密资料。同时我们也了解对投资者
负责的重要性，因此实行了一个沟通政策，建立了一个结构性的沟通方式。把公司的重要信息一一传达给投资者和所有投资
大众。除了作为与股东主要沟通的常年股东大会之外。董事及高管人员也采取主动定期走访大股东和部分小股东，定期更新
公司网站的讯息。让他们掌握公司营运财务状况和公司发展计划。

     我衷心感谢所有股东一路来给予我们的信任和支持。对于我们的商业伙伴、客户、供应商、银行家、财经分析员，以及基
金经理，我们更加感谢大家的支持和贡献。同时我也要感谢公司的管理层和员工，因为他们在促进公司的持续成长方面，扮
演了重要的角色。

     我要感谢所有为欧华公司发展给予支持的各界好友，我们有信心在未来的日子将公司推向更高、更快的发展空间，在各位
股东的支持下，经过我们的努力，使公司克服目前的困难，找到一个新的发展方向。

谢谢大家！
董事局主席&CEO：王超

                                                                                                      Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                  19
                    Management Discussion and Analysis

Overview of Performance

a) Revenue

For FY 2024, China Ouhua, which is principally involved in importing and sales of grape wines with its sole
manufacturing plant located in Yantai City, Shandong Province, China recorded a decrease in revenue of
8.4 0 % or RMB 1.311 million from RMB 15.604 million in FY 2023 to RMB 14.293 million in current financial
year. Principal target market of China Ouhua's wine products is throughout China. For FY 2024, the sales
recorded was solely through sales of red wine. Given that the wine market in China remains highly competitive
and none of red wine and white wine was favoured by the consumers as before , Management had made
many efforts with the objective to improve the sales revenue. The Company has enhanced the sales of
imported wine, and the total sales revenue dropped slightly.

b) Profit(Loss) after Taxation

4                                    49.089              3'  7.403

4                                            impairment loss on PPE of RMB43.38 million, which was caused by drop in

market property prices. Eliminate the aforementioned factor the operating loss in FY2024 was comparable to

FY 2023, Both year's operating result was badly affected by stagnant Chinese wine market,None of red wine

and white wine was favoured by the consumers as before.

c) Liquidity and Capital Resources                           17 698
                 4
                  he                         9 493                   4 378

 Prospects

Moving forward, in the next financial year, the Management will continue to work hard to improve the sales
revenue. The Management of the Company is confident to lead the Company to a new era by diversifying
into importation of overseas wine to market in new areas and online business.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   20
Sustainability Statement

Sustainability and responsibility remains a key pillar of our business strategy. As a responsible committee
we to demonstrate responsible corporate conduct across all aspects of our operations.
This Statement is prepared in accordance to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad's Main Market Listing
Requirements relating to sustainability statement, its Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd Edition) and
Toolkit Governance 3rd Edition by Bursa Malaysia and covers the Companys business operations in
Malaysia for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

The Management's responsibility is to ensure that the Company's sustainability matters has taken various
holistic approaches by incorporating EES to support business continuity and competitiveness over the long
term in line with the benefit to the stakeholders. Hence, Sustainability Statement is very crucial to the
Company and it acts as a catalyst to prompt the Company to identify the significant EES risks that are likely
to be material and impact to the Company. The Management will report to the Company Chief Executive
Officer ( Company CEO ) on the sustainability performance of the Company. The Company CEO will lead
the Company in reviewing and put in place all the necessary risks to sustain the business of the Company.
The Company CEO then will report the sustainability risks and measure taken by the Company to the Board
in order to avoid any reputational risk to the Company which may affect the stakeholders.

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS
The Management will identify and assess a wide range of sustainability matters to act on and to report to.
Hence, the materiality assessment can provide information that may positively or negatively influence the
Company' s ability to deliver Company's vision and strategy. The Company's CEO will advise and assist
the Management to mitigate the sustainability risk to protect the stakeholders' terest. The Management
together with the supervision of the Company's CEO will conduct a materiality review every year to identify
the crucial and relevant sustainability matters occur in the Company. The result would assist the Company
to manage the sustainability matters. The following are five (5) key steps to conduct the materiality
assessment: Objective- Identification-Prioritisation-Stakeholder Engagement-Review.

Sustainability Governance Framework

The Company is committed to adopt the best practices for a responsible business conduct taking into account
the enhancement of shareholders' values, maximisation of profits and sustainability of environmental resources.
ECONOMIC

To strengthen innovation and operational efficiency to ensure wine safety and towards a more
balanced resource –efficient management.

1) Right culture and shared values
2) Safety and health

3) Client-centric services

4) Value for shareholders

Other than the communication with shareholders during general meetings, the Directors and senior

management would also take initiative to regularly visit major and some minority shareholders,

regularly update the Company's website, to enable the shareholders to understand better on the

Company's latest operating financial position and the Company's future major project development

plans.                               Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                         21
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)

 Sustainability Governance Framework

ENVIRONMENT
To adjust and adopt best practice solutions through innovative quality processes.
1) Environmental protection

                                                                                       .
2) Material efficiency
Collecting recyclable items such as paper, carton, boxes.
3) Energy and water consumption management

                                                                                                                         .
4) Waste, noise and effluent management
By saving water ,avoiding noise and efficiently using materials.
SOCIAL

To act as catalysts for boosting community development and support systems for long-term talent pipeline.

1) Equal employment and employee engagement

With equal pay for the same job and offering same opportunity for training and promotion.

2) Talent development and Training

Employees are recognised as a key source of competitive advantage at Ouhua, and every effort is
made to harness the competency of the human capital. The employees are trained annually with latest
technical and social skills that are essential to the Company's long-term success.

3) Community services Marketing Activities

The Company hosts various cultural events and seminars promoting wine culture on a regular basis in
order to foster effective communications between the consumers and the Company. The Company is also
active in hosting events with product giveaways to improve our brand recognition and brand image.

4) Staff Health & Welfare

For staff welfare, the Company reviews HR policies and employee benefits on a regular basis to ensure our
philosophies of "Sense of Belonging", teamwork and equal opportunity are observed. The employees
also enjoy benefits such as medicare and social securities insurance coverage.

The Company puts high regards on employees' safety. The Company runs health checks annually to
ensure our employees' health. Further, the Company is dedicated to improve our production process to
protect our employees from occupational injuries.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   22
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)

Facilitating stakeholders’assessment of progress and performance as well as promoting listed issuers’

accountability

a. 2022-2024 financial years’ data, on a rolling basis, for each reported indicator.

PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE FOR THE GROUP

Indicator                                                Measurement 2022 2023 2024

                                                         unit

Bursa (Anti-corruption)

Bursa C1(a)Percentage of employees who have

received training on anti-corruption by employee

category

Management                                               Percentage 100 100 100

Executive                                                Percentage 100 100 100

Non-executive/Technical Staff                            Percentage 100 100 100

General Workers                                          Percentage 100 100 100

Bursa C1(b)Percentage of operations assessed for         Percentage 100 100 100

corruption-related risks

Bursa C1(c)Confirmed incidents of corruption and action  Number                       0  0             0
taken                                                    Number
Bursa (Data privacy and security)                                                     0  0             0
Bursa C8(a)Number of substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data

Bursa (Supply chain management)                          Percentage                   100 100 100
Bursa C7(a)Proportion of spending an local suppliers

Bursa (Energy management)                                Megawatt                     133 49 56
Bursa C4(a)Total energy consumption
Bursa (Water)                                            Megalitres                   6  4             4
Bursa C9(a)Total volume of water used
Bursa (Health and safety)                                Number                       0  0             0
Bursa C5(a)Number of work related fatalities

Bursa C5(b)Lost time incident rate (LTIR')                 Rate                       0  0             0
Bursa C5(c)Number of employees trained on health and     Number
safety standards                                                                      14 15 15
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a)Total hours of training by employee category

Management                                               Hours                        65 105 108
Executive                                                Hours                        30 36 42

                                                                                                       23
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)                     Measurement  2022 2023 2024
Indicator                                                    unit
                                                                   28 30 36
Non-executive/Technical Staff                              Hours
General Workers                                            Hours   12 12 12
Bursa C6(b)Percentage of employees that are            Percentage
contractors or temporary staff                                     0   0  0
Bursa C6(c)Total number of employee turnover by
employee category                                     Number       0   1  0
Management                                            Number
Executive                                             Number       0   1  0
Non-executive/Technical Staff                         Number
General Workers                                       Number       0   0  1
Bursa C6(d)Number of substantiated complaints
concerning human rights violations                                 3   0  0

                                                                   0   0  0

Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a)Percentage of employees by gender and age
group,for each employee category

Age Group by Employee Category                        Percentage   0   0  0
Management Under 30                                   Percentage
Management Between 30-50                              Percentage   7   20 20
Management Above 50                                   Percentage
Executive Under 30                                    Percentage   93 80 80
Executive Between 30-50                               Percentage
Executive Above 50                                    Percentage   0   0  0
Non-executive/Technical Staff Under 30                Percentage
Non-executive/Technical Staff Between 30-50                        50  0  0

                                                                   50 100 100

                                                                   0   0  0

                                                                   20 20 67

Non-executive/Technical Staff Above 50                Percentage   80 80 33
General Workers Under 30                              Percentage
General Workers Between 30-50                         Percentage   0   0  0
General Workers Above 50                              Percentage
Gender Group by Employee Category                                  35 47 47
Management Male
Management Female                                                  65 53 53
Executive Male
Executive Female                                      Percentage   90 90 90
Non-executive/Technical Staff Male                    Percentage
Non-executive/Technical Staff Female                  Percentage   10 10 10
General Workers Male                                  Percentage
General Workers Female                                Percentage   100 100 100
                                                      Percentage
                                                      Percentage   0   0  0
                                                      Percentage
                                                                   90 90 100

                                                                   10 10  0

                                                                   57 47 47

                                                                   43 53 53

24
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)                    Measurement    2022   2023 2024
 Indicator                                                  unit

 Bursa C3(b)Percentage of directors by gender and    Percentage     85.71  75  100
 age group
 Male                                                Percentage     14.29  25  0
 Female
 Under 30                                            Percentage     0      0   0
 Between 30-50
 Above 50                                            Percentage     42.86  50  50
 Bursa (Community/Society)
 Bursa C2(a)Total amount invested in the             Percentage     57.14  50  50
 community where the target beneficiaries are
 external to the listed issuer                       MYR            100000 40000 60000

Bursa C2(b)Total number of beneficiaries of the      Number         70     30  43

investment in communities

Bursa (Waste management)

Bursa C10(a) Total waste generated                   Metric tonnes             1.1
                                                                                0
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste diverted from disposal Metric tonnes

Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste directed to disposal    Metric tonnes             1.1

Bursa (Emissions management)

Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e Metric tonnes                 0.3

Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e Metric tonnes                 1.4

Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e Metric tonnes                 0.3

(at least for the categories of business travel and

employee commuting)

b. Summary of 2022-2024’s performance.

1) Anti-corruption
The Group is committed to conducting our business free from any and all forms of corruption
and has conducted our training courses on ABAC in accordance to Section 17A of the Malaysian
Anti Corruption ( “ MACC ” ) Act 2009 to equip our employees with the ABAC policy. These
trainings establish the guiding principles for all employees to manage bribery and corruption
risks.
Up to year FYE 2024, there are no incidents of corruption.
2) Data privacy and security

                                                                                                                                        25
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)
The Group is committed to protecting the privacy and confidentiality of the data of our
customers and employees to ensure we manage data in accordance to high standards of data
privacy. Up to year FYE 2024, we have recorded zero complaints concerning the breaches of
privacy.
3）Supply chain management
By prioritizing local sourcing, we minimize our environmental footprint and maximize the positive
impact of our business. This approach not only ensures the quality and sustainability of our
products and services, but also creates jobs and economic opportunities in the communities we
serve.
4）Energy management
We manage our resources and energy usage efficiently so as to reduce the relevant
environmental impacts and promote sustainable use of natural resources. The Group is taking
initiatives to improve its electricity consumption by adopting energy efficient lighting and energy
saving equipment for energy conservation. Our total electricity consumption for the FYE 2024 is
declined to 56 Megawatt compared to 133 Megawatt in FYE 2022.
5) Water
Water is a key natural resource for our operations. In FYE 2024, we have consumed a total volume
of 4 Megalitres water in our operation, 33.3% declined as compared to FYE 2022.
6) Health and safety

The group maintained a high level of safety training for all employees, and runs health check
annually to ensure our employees’ health.
There was no incident happened during 2022-2024.
7) Labour practices and standards
Employees are recognised as a key source of competitive advantage at The group, and every
effort is made to harness the competency of the human capital. The employees are trained
annually with latest technical and social skills that are essential to the Company's long-term
success.
8) Diversity
The Group strives to develop a dynamic and inclusive workforce with the right mix of talents from
various cultural backgrounds, skills, experiences, gender, age group as well as religions. We
strongly believe that such diversity inspires greater creativity and productivity which could serve
as a push for our business growth and sustainability.
9) Community/Society

26
Sustainability Statement (cont’d)

The Group hosts various cultural events and seminars promoting wine culture on a regular basis
in order to foster effective communications between the consumers and the Group. The Group is
also active in hosting events with product giveaways to improve our brand recognition and brand
image.
During 2022-2024 The Group has donated a total amount of 200,000 MYR.
10) Waste management
Waste is a common challenge across wine industry, with both local and cost-related impacts on
the business. As a responsible company, we are committed to managing waste by adopting a
minimal waste approach, following prevention,and reduction of Waste , in our operations. We
believe that effective waste management is crucial for developing sustainable, value-driven
operations.
We have generated a total volume of 1.1 Metric tonnes Waste in FYE 2024.
11) Emissions management
The Group recognizes the contribution of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to climate change.
Since 2024, we have monitored our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, which include direct
emissions from our controlled operations and indirect emissions from purchased electricity,
respectively. The assessment of our Scope 3 emissions, with a focus on key categories pertinent
to our operations.
For FYE 2024, We have generated a volume of 0.3 Metric tonnes Scope 1 emissions and 1.4
Metric tonnes Scope 2 emissions respectively, together with 0.3 Metric tonnes Scope 3
emissions.

Independent Assurance
This Statement has not been subjected to any specific review by our internal auditors or external
assurance by independent parties, however we are preparing for future Statements to be
reviewed.

                                                                                                                                        27
Indicator                            Measurement Unit                       2023          2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
                                                                          100.00        100.00
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of                                                 100.00        100.00
employees who have received                                               100.00        100.00
training on anti-corruption by                                            100.00        100.00
employee category                                                         100.00        100.00

Management                           Percentage                                  0             0

Executive                            Percentage                       40,000.00     60,000.00

Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage                                        30            43

General Workers                      Percentage                              0.00          0.00
                                                                           20.00         20.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of            Percentage                            80.00         80.00
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks                                                     0.00          0.00
                                                                             0.00          0.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents      Number                               100.00        100.00
of corruption and action taken                                               0.00          0.00
                                                                           20.00         67.00
Bursa (Community/Society)                                                  80.00         33.00
                                                                             0.00          0.00
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested    MYR                                   47.00         47.00
in the community where the target                                          53.00         53.00
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer                                                              90.00         90.00
                                                                           10.00         10.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of          Number                               100.00        100.00
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities                                                                  0.00          0.00
                                                                           90.00        100.00
Bursa (Diversity)                                                          10.00
                                                                           47.00           0.00
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of                                                  53.00         47.00
employees by gender and age                                                              53.00
group, for each employee category                                          75.00
                                                                           25.00        100.00
     Age Group by Employee                                                                 0.00
Category                                                                     0.00          0.00
                                                                           50.00
Management Under 30                  Percentage                            50.00         50.00
                                                                                         50.00
Management Between 30-50 Percentage                                        49.00
                                                                                         56.00
Management Above 50                  Percentage                                  0
                                                                             0.00              0
Executive Under 30                   Percentage                                            0.00
                                                                                15
Executive Between 30-50              Percentage                                               15

Executive Above 50                   Percentage

       Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage
Under 30

       Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage
Between 30-50

       Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage
Above 50

General Workers Under 30             Percentage

       General Workers Between 30- Percentage
50

General Workers Above 50             Percentage

     Gender Group by Employee
Category

Management Male                      Percentage

Management Female                    Percentage

Executive Male                       Percentage

Executive Female                     Percentage

       Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage
Male

       Non-executive/Technical Staff Percentage
Female

General Workers Male                 Percentage

General Workers Female               Percentage

Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group

Male                                 Percentage

Female                               Percentage

Under 30                             Percentage

Between 30-50                        Percentage

Above 50                             Percentage

Bursa (Energy management)

Bursa C4(a) Total energy             Megawatt
consumption

Bursa (Health and safety)

Bursa C5(a) Number of work-          Number
related fatalities

Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate  Rate
("LTIR")

Bursa C5(c) Number of employees      Number
trained on health and safety
standards

Internal assurance                  External assurance  No assurance  (*)Restated

                                                                                                  28
Indicator                            Measurement Unit                     2023          2024

Bursa (Labour practices and standards)                                      105           108
                                                                              36            42
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training                                           30            36
by employee category                                                          12            12

Management                           Hours                                 0.00          0.00

Executive                            Hours                                     1             0
                                                                               1             0
Non-executive/Technical Staff Hours                                            0             1
                                                                               0             0
General Workers                      Hours                                     0             0

Bursa C6(b) Percentage of            Percentage                         100.00        100.00
employees that are contractors or
temporary staff                                                                0             0

Bursa C6(c) Total number of                                          4.000000      4.000000
employee turnover by employee
category                                                                        -        1.10
                                                                                -        0.00
Management                           Number                                     -        1.10

Executive                            Number                                     -        0.30
                                                                                -        1.40
Non-executive/Technical Staff Number                                            -        0.30

General Workers                      Number

Bursa C6(d) Number of                Number
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations

Bursa (Supply chain management)

Bursa C7(a) Proportion of            Percentage
spending on local suppliers

Bursa (Data privacy and security)

Bursa C8(a) Number of                Number
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer
data

Bursa (Water)

Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water    Megalitres
used

Bursa (Waste management)

Bursa C10(a) Total waste             Metric tonnes
generated

Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste          Metric tonnes
diverted from disposal

Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste         Metric tonnes
directed to disposal

Bursa (Emissions management)

Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in Metric tonnes
tonnes of CO2e

Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in Metric tonnes
tonnes of CO2e

Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in    Metric tonnes
tonnes of CO2e (at least for the
categories of business travel and
employee commuting)

Internal assurance               External assurance    No assurance  (*)Restated                29
Audit Committee Report

The Audit Committee currently comprises three(3) members:

Name                   Chairman / Member         Directorship

Sun Huifeng            ChCaihramiramnan/ Member  Independent Non-Executive Directorctorship

Zhang Fuwei            Member                    Independent Non-Executive Director

Chiang Kai Ming        Member                    Independent Non-Executive Director

Terms of Reference

      s             A                                          http://ouhuawine.com/The

number of Audit Committee Meetings held in the financial year and attendance of members

During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the Audit Committee held four (4) meetings and the attendance
record is as follows:-

  Summary of Activities of the Audit Committee

The following activities were carried out by the Audit Committee during the financial year ended 31 December 2024:
1. Overview of Financial Performance and Reporting
• Reviewed business plan and budget for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
• Reviewed the unaudited quarterly financial results for the quarters ended 31 December 3 31 March 2024.
30 June 2024 and 30 September 2024 to ensure adequacy of the disclosure of information essential for a
fair and true presentation of the financial affairs of the Group before recommending to the Board for approval.
2. Oversight of External Auditors
• Reviewed Audit Planning Memorandum prepared by External Auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2024,
entailing mainly the scope of work and approach, significant areas of audit focus, key audit matters, fraud consideration,
internal controls and amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards,International Accounting Standards
and other Financial Reporting Matters in 4/2024 Audit Committee Meeting held on 28 November 2024.
• Reviewed the results/findings of the audit conducted by External Auditors and discussed with the External
Auditors on the significant/key matters noted during the course of the audit of the Group's financial statements.

                                                                                                    Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                30
                                   Audit Committee Report (cont’d)

Summary of Activities of the Audit Committee （con’d)

• Reviewed and assessed the proposal for Re-appointment of External Auditors and
  recommended the same to the Board of Director for further recommendation to the Shareholders of the
 Company for approval.

• Assessed the suitability and Independence of the External Auditors for re-appointment. The AC had
conducted as assessment and evaluation on the performance and ependence in accordance with the terms of all
relevant professional and regulatory requirements, i.e. adequ-acy of resources, experience of the firm and
staff assigned, level of non-audit fees, rotation of partner, etc of the External Auditors of the Company,
namely UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.

• Reviewed changes in major accounting policies highlighted by the External Auditors.
• Reviewed significant or unusual events highlighted by the External Auditors

3. Oversight of Internal Auditors

• Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

• Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Reports reported on quarterly audits conducted on areas such as

Sales Management, Purchasing Management,      management, inventory management, fixed asset

management, human resource management together with the recommendations.

4. Oversight of Risk 'Management and Internal Control matters
   • The Risk Management Committee was established on 27 February 2018 which comprised majority of independent
   directors to oversee the Company's risk management framework and policies.
   • Reviewed the revision of the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee at the 1/2024 Audit Committee
    meeting held on 29 February 2024.
   • Reviewed related party transaction of the group for the quarters ended 31 December 2023, 31 March 2024, 30 June
   2024, and 30 September 2024.

  Summary of Internal Audit Activities

The Company's Internal Audit Division is established to assist the Audit Committee in the discharge of its duties and
responsibilities. Its role is to undertake independent, regular and systematic reviews of the operation of the

companies to ensure proper systems of internal controls are in place. It also evaluates the processes where significant

risks are identified, assessed and managed to ensure instituted controls are appropriate, effectively applied and

achieve acceptable risk exposure consistent with the Company’s risk manag’ement policy.

                                                                  a                                   cash

receipt and payment business bank deposit receipt and payment business b                        Purchase

ingredient, stock material, material review), c) Fixed Asset Management(regular maintenance), d) Human Resources

Management (Personnel recruitment, employee assessment, Training courses for in-service employees, the

percentage of employees participating in the training program, and the cost of providing training courses, does the

company have standardized labor contracts), e) Sales Management(inspection of related sales contracts, sales invoices

, payment slips), f) Purchasing Management(randomly check the agency import agreement, check current

procurement policy, ordering plan, purchase price and quantity).

The Audit Committee monitors the operation of internal audit function closely, to ensure targets are met and

internal audit work to be carried out effectively and efficiently. Appointment of Internal Audit personnel is

reviewed by Audit committee. Internal audit report submitted to audit committee timely and’reviewed by the audit
committee. The scope and focus of internal audit work adapt to company's development, i.e. trade receivable

management to be monitored constantly, fixed assets and cash management as key area also been inspected.

Internal committee formally communicates with the Audit Committee for internal audit concern and improvement to
be followed up.
During the financial year, there was no material internal control failure that was reported that would have resulted
in any significant loss to the Company.
All the Internal Audit functions were conducted by the in-house audit team. There were no areas of the Internal Audit

function which were outsourced. The total costs incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the financial

year ended 31 December 2024 was RMB 108,000.

                                                                  Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                      31
Corporate Governance Overview Statement

The Board of Directors is fully committed to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance
including accountability and transparency are practiced by the Company and throughout the Group as a
fundamental part of discharging its responsibilities to protect and enhance shareholder value and the financial
performance of the Group.

To this end, the Board continues to implement the principles and practices of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance(“Code”) towards achieving corporate excellence.

The ensuing paragraphs describe the extent of how the Group has applied and complied with the principles
and best practices of the Code for the financial year ended 31 December 2024. The detailed application for
each practice as set out in the Code is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report (“CG
Report”), announced together with this Annual Report 2024 in the Bursa Securities's website. The CG Report
is also available at http://ouhuawine.com/.

 PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

 Part I - Board Responsibilities

1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals

1.1 Strategic Aims, Values and Standards

The Board retains full and effective control of the Company. This includes the responsibility for

determining, reviewing and monitoring the Company's overall strategic directions as well as

development of the Group in an effective and responsible manner. Key matters reserved for the Board's

approval include but not restricted to the following:

-  approval of annual audited financial statements and quarterly result, including accounting

policies of the Group;

-  review and approval of annual financial budget and long term business plans;

-  business acquisition and disposal;

-  major capital expenditures;

-  establishment of new businesses or entries into new business ventures;

-  financing of the Group's activities and financial performance; and

-  any corporate restructuring not covered by the above mentioned paragraphs.

To ensure the effective discharge of its function and responsibilities, the Board had delegated specific

powers and responsibilities of the Board to the relevant Board Committees such as Audit Committee

(“AC”) , Nomination Committee (“NC”) , Remuneration Committee (“RC”), and Risk

Management Committee (“RMC”) to act on behalf of the Board to oversee the Group's affair, which

operates within the respective clearly defined terms of reference.

1.2 The Chairman

Wang Chao is the Chairman of the Company who is responsible for instilling good corporate
governance practices, leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
The profile of the Chairman is set out in the Directors' Profile of this Annual Report. The Chairman's
responsibilities include:
-leading the Board in setting the values and standards of the Company including good corporate
governance;
- facilitating the effective contributions of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations
be maintained between Executive and Non-Executive Director

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   32
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals (cont'd)
     - managing the business of the Board by, amongst others, setting the Board agenda, leading Board meetings
        and discussions and ensuring sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious
        issues.
        The Chairman chairs all Board meetings and drives discussions towards consensus, where possible.
        The Chairman also chairs shareholders' meetings.

1.3 Separation in the Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)

The Code recommends that, the role of the Chairman and CEO should be separated and should not

be performed by the same individual. Mr Wang Chao holds the roles of Chairman and CEO in the

best interest of the Group.

The holding of two roles by Mr Wang Chao is due to his valuable technical and governance knowl-

edge in the business operations coupled with his vast experience in winery industries. With his

in-depth experience, Mr Wang Chao is able to provide different  deep insight and guid-

ance on strategic direction as well as an effective management of the Company.

Despite the above, the Board is satisfied with the Board composition comprising a majority of Inde-

pendent Directors to carry out the Board's priorities objectively and impartially and to ensure the

Company is fairly and effectively managed in the best interest of stakeholders. The current Board is

now comprised 80% Independent Non-Executive Directors.

The Board continues to be mindful of the deviation from the recommendations of the Code and is

of the view that there is a check and balance of role, responsibilities and accountability at the Board

level. The Company is also planning to find a competent person suitable for the role of Chairman.

1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries

         The Board is supported by a qualified Company Secretary, namely Yang Bin, and Agent in Malaysia
         namely GAP Advisory Sdn. Bhd. in discharging its role and responsibilities. The Board ensures that
          the Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia appointed have the relevant experiences and skills.
         The appointment and removal of Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia of the Company shall be
         the prerogative of the Board as a whole.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia plays an important advisory role and to provide guid-
         ance, information and advice to the Board and Board Committees on issues relating to corporate
         compliance with the relevant laws, rules, regulations and procedures affecting the Board and the
         Group, as well as the practices of the Code. The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia constantly
         keep themselves abreast of the evolving capital market environment, regulatory changes and
         developments in CG and circulates relevant guidelines and updates on statutory and regulatory
         requirements from time to time for the Directors' reference and knowledge.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia attends Board and Board Committee meetings and
         ensures that all board papers are sent to the members on a timely basis, meetings are properly
         convened and appropriate records of the deliberations and proceedings are accurately recorded
         and duly signed by the Chairman of the meeting.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia works closely with the Management to ensure that there
         are timely information flows within and to the Board and Board Committees, and between the
         Non-Executive Directors and Management.

1.5 Access to information and advice

Prior to Board meetings, the Notice and agenda together with the other relevant papers covering

quantitative and qualitative information（"Board Papers"）are distributed to all Directors not

less than  days before a meeting for their perusal. Minutes of a Directors' meeting would be

distributed to all Directors on a timely basis for review and thereafter for confirmation at the next

                                      Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                          33
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals (cont'd)

                 board meeting. The signed board minutes are being kept in the minutes books.

                 The Board Papers contain information pertinent to the matters to be deliberated at the coming meeting
                 and any details or clarifications that the Directors may require on the agenda items would be furnished
                 upon request. In a potential conflict of interest situation, the Director concerned would be required to
                 declare his interest and abstain from decision making.

                 The Board has unrestricted access to all staff for any information pertaining to the Group's affairs. In addition, the
                 Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary/Agent who is responsible for ensuring
                 that the Board meeting procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are being complied
                 with. The Board may also seek independent advice at the Company's expenses whenever the need arises.

2. Demarcation of Responsibilities

       2.1 Board Charter

             The Board Charter includes the division of responsibilities and powers between the Board and
             Management as well as the different committees established by the Board. The Board Charter was last

                            during the 1/2025 Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 28 February 2025 and would be
             periodically reviewed and updated in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new
             regulations that may have an impact on the discharge of the Board's responsibilities. The Board
             Charter is available on the Company's website at http://ouhuawine.com/.

3. Good Business Conduct and Corporate Culture

    3.1 Code of Conduct and Ethics

    The Company has formalised an ethical standard in writing through a Code of Conduct and Ethics. The

    Code of Conduct and Ethics governs the standard of conduct, behaviour and responsibilities expected

    from all Company Directors and employees by setting out the principles, practices and standards of

    good personal and corporate behaviour as below:

    i.    act in the Company's best interest and value the Company's reputation;

    ii.   act with Honesty and Integrity;

    iii.  treat others with respect and value difference and maintain a safe working environment;

    iv.   identify conflicts of interest and manage them;

    v.    respect and maintain privacy and confidentiality;

    vi. do not make or receive improper payments, benefits or gains;

    vii. compliance with the Code of Conduct and Ethics, legal and regulatory requirements and compa-

    ny policies; and

    viii. immediately report any breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, or the Company's policies

    and procedures.

    The Code of Conduct and Ethics outlines the Group's commitment to appropriate and ethical practices,

    establishes ethical standard to ensure that working environment and condition are safe and healthy,

    workers are treated with respect and dignity, and business operation are conducted ethically.

    The Group Human Resource is responsible for on-going review and development of the Code of Con-

    duct and Ethics. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and Ethics tantamount to a serious breach

    and investigation or disciplinary action will be taken by the Company for the non-compliance.

    The Code of Conduct and Ethics is available on the Company's website at http://ouhuawine.com/.

    3.2 Whistle-blowing policy
          The Whistle-blowing Policy was approved and adopted by the Board at the Board Meeting held on 27

    February 2017. The Board recognises and understands the importance of Whistle-blowing policy in

    strengthening the overall business conduct, demonstrates accountability, enhance the integrity

    and ethical behaviour, facilitate the risk management and at the same time encourage sound

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

34
    Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

            corporate governance practices. The Whistle-blowing policy is available on the Company's
            website at http://ouhuawine.com/.
            3.3 Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy ("AB&C Policy")
      The Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of corruption and bribery as well as takes a strong
      stance against such acts. The Group is committed to conducting business in an honest and ethical manner, as
      well as to complying with all applicable laws and regulations. The Board has formalised and established an AB
      &C Policy.
      The AB & C Policy sets out the Group's position on bribery and corruption in all its forms and provides principles,
      guidelines, and requirements on how to deal with bribery and corrupt practices that may occur within the Group as well
      as in its interactions with its business associates. The AB & C Policy applies to the Board and employees of the Group
    and business associates of the Group including external parties performing work or services for or on behalf of the Group.
    The AB&C Policy is available on the Company's website at http://ouhuawine.com/.

Part II - Board Composition
4. Board's objectivity

     4.1 Composition of the Board

            The Board currently consists of five(5) members, comprising one (1) Executive Director and four (4)
            Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Company is in compliance with Paragraph 15.02 of the
            MMLR of Bursa Securities that two directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the higher,
            are Independent Directors. If the number of directors of the listed issuer is not 3 or a multiple or 3, then
            the number nearest 1/3 must be used.All the Independent Directors are independent of management
            and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of
            their independent judgment. The functions of Executive and Non-Executive Directors are separate and
            clearly defined. Generally, the Executive Directors are to manage the Group's daily operations and to
            implement the operational and corporate decisions. The Non-Executive Directors are to provide the
            Company with unbiased, independent views and decisions, after taking into consideration the interest
            of the shareholders, employees and business associates. The expertise of the Independent
            Non-Executive Directors complements the knowledge and experience of the Executive Directors in the
            formulation of the Company strategies and policies.
            The Board's composition represents a mix of knowledge, skill and expertise relevant to the activities of
            the Group.A brief profile of each Director is presented on page16 to page18 of the 2024 Annual Report.

            There is a balance of membership in the Board thus ensuring that no individual dominates the decision
            making process and the results thereof.
            The Code states that at least half of the board comprises Independent Directors and the current
            composition of the Board does meets with this best practice.

     4.2 Tenure of Independent Director

            The Code recommends that the tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term
            of nine (9) years. The 9 years can either be a consecutive service of 9 years or a cumulative service of 9
            years with intervals. Upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director may continue to
            serve on the Board subject to the director's re-designation as a Non-Independent Director.

                                                      's
                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                       '

                                                                                                           as an Independent Director

            4.3 Diverse Board and Senior Management Team

            Appointment of Board and Senior Management are based on objective criteria, merit and besides
            gender diversity, due regard are placed for diversity in skills, experience, age and cultural background.
            Please refer to the Directors' and Senior Management's Profile on page16 to 19 for further information.

     4.4 Gender Diversity
            The Board noted the recommendations of the Code on the establishment of boardroom gender
            diversity. The Board took into account diversity as one of the selection criteria of Board and senior
            management appointees and the candidates' competency, skills, expertise, experience and
            commitment. The Board currently has one woman director, namely Chen Anli who was appointed
            to the Board on 28 February 2025, and this constitutes 20% of the Board.

                                                                                                      Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                  35
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

4. Board's objectivity (cont’d)

4.5 Appointment of Directors

        The NC is responsible to ensure that the procedure for appointing new Directors are focused on creating
        good mix of skills, knowledge, expertise, experience, professionalism and integrity to enable the Board to
        discharge its responsibilities effectively. Other factors considered include the candidates' ability to commit
        sufficient time to the Company, their character and level of independence.
        The Nomination and election process of new Directors are as follows:
         i. Identification of skills and expertise
         ii. Selection of suitable candidates
         iii. Assessment and evaluation based on established framework
         iv. NC's deliberation
         v. Recommendations by the NC for the Board's consideration and approval
        Recommendations by the NC are reported at the meeting of the Board by the Chairman of the NC for the
        Board's consideration and approval. The final decision as to who shall be appointed to the Board and
        various Board Committees shall be the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
        recommendation of the NC.

4.6 Nomination Committee

        The Board has delegated the NC the responsibility for considering the appointment of Directors, identifying
        and selecting potential new directors and proposing to the Board the appointment of new Directors. The
        NC comprised three Independent Non-Executive Directors as follow:
        .
         .
        . Chiang KaiMing
        The Term of Reference of the NC is available on the Company's website at http://ouhuawine.com/The
         main duties and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee

           )

)

                 )                   Annual Report 2024

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED

   36
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

4. Board's objectivity (cont’d)

       )

       )
              '

       )
       )

       )
       )

        )
        )
        )
        )

                                                                                                            's
        )
        )

                                                                                 '

       7
                                                                                                                                                4

     3.
     4. Conducted assessment (including the fit and proper assessment) on the appointment of Chen Anli prior
     to recommending her appointment to the Board.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   37
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

5. Overall Board Effectiveness
      5.1 Annual evaluation

                                                         Wang Chao

r Zhang FuWei and
                            Wang Chao r Zhang Fuwei and

                                                        Based on the recommendations from the NC, the Board had also
assessed and would be proposing to the shareholders for approval the continuation in office of Sun Huifeng
and Zhang, Fuwei (who have served more than nine (9) years) as the Independent Non-Executive Directors of
the Company at the forthcoming AGM. A two-tier voting process would be adopted when seeking the
shareholders' approval to retain Sun Huifeng and Zhang, Fuwei as Independent Non-Executive Directors of
the Company.

                                                                                                                      The Board's proposal for
continuation in office of Sun Huifeng and Zhang, Fuwei as Independent Non-Executive Directors was based
on the following:-1. Sun Huifeng has passed through the fit and proper assessment, and he has made
constructive proposal at the board meeting, take the board matters seriously and act responsible for the
board. He is a financial expert , together with many years audit experiences, so he is very fit with the audit
committee s position. Although he has served on the Board for more than nine (9) years, it has not impaired
his independence. 2. Zhang, Fuwei has passed through the fit and proper assessment, and he has made
constructive proposal at the board meeting, take the board matters seriously and act responsible for the
board. He has many years of management experiences, and he also made a good job in reducing salary costs
, meanwhile keeping morale. Although he has served on the Board for more than nine (9) years, it has not
impaired his independence. Peer and self assessment are carried out by the Directors and the AC members
once every year.The results,in particular the key strength and weaknesses identified from the evaluation,will
be shared with the Board allow enhancements to be undertaken.

4
                                                n

                                                         Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                             38
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    5. Overall Board Effectiveness (cont’d)

        The Board Committees are as follows:-
         • Audit Committee
         • Nomination Committee
         • Remuneration Committee
         • Risk Management Committee
        The following are the record of attendance for Nomination and Remuneration Committees' Meetings held
        in 2024:-
        Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Risk Management Committee

                          

The Risk Management Committee was established on 27 February 2018 and no meeting was held
during financial year 20 4.

All Directors have complied with the minimum 50% attendance as stipulated by Paragraph 15.05(3)(c) of
the MMLR of Bursa Securities. The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment of the Directors
from their attendance at the Meetings.

The Board members is allowed to accept other board's appointment only if the appointment is not in
conflict with the business of the Group and it would not detrimentally affect his or her performance as
a board member of the Group. Before accepting other board's appointment, the Chairman of the
Board and the Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia shall be notified on the same. The notification
should include an indication of time that he/she will be spent on the new appointment of directorship
in other companies. This is to ensure the Director have sufficient time to fulfill their roles andresponsibilit
ies in the Company effectively.

The Board is in compliance with Paragraph 15.06 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities on the restriction on
the number of directorship in listed companies held by the Directors where none of the Directors of the
Company holds more than 5 directorships in Malaysian public listed companies.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   39
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

          5. Overall Board Effectiveness（con’d)
            Directors' Training
            The Board acknowledged the importance of continuing education programmes or training for
            Directors and encourages the Directors to attend talks, seminars, workshops and conferences.
            Continual improvement allows the Directors of the Company to equip themselves with updated
            knowledge and skills which enable them to carry out their roles effectively as directors in
            discharging their responsibility towards corporate governance, operational and regulatory issues.
            In addition, the Directors were also briefed by the Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia from
            time to time on updates and changes of statutory requirements such as amendments to
            MMLR of Bursa Securities.
            The NC had on 28 February 2025 assessed and evaluated the trainings undertaken by all the
            Directors throughout the financial year 2024. NC ensures all Directors receive appropriate
            continuous training programs by recommending the types of training for all the Directors to
            attend in order to broaden their perspectives and to keep abreast with developments in the
            market place and with changes in new statutory and regulatory requirements.
            The Board would evaluate the recommendations by NC and determines the training needs of the
            Directors. The Board members were invited to provide feedback on their training needs for the
            financial period under review. The Board then carried out an assessment on the training needs for
            each of the Board members.
            Save for Mr Zhang Fuwei who had been appointed to the Board on 15 January 2014 and was
            unable to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”) within four (4) months from
            the date of appointment, all the Directors of the Company had attended the MAP in accordance
            with the MMLR of Bursa Securities . Mr Zhang Fuwei was unable to attend the MAP because
            there were no MAP courses conducted in Mandarin for the time being.
            The details of trainings/seminars/conference attended by Directors during the financial year of
            2024 are as below:

                                                                                              Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                          40
 Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

Part III - Remuneration

6. Level and Composition of Remuneration

    6.1 Remuneration policy

          The Board determines the level of remuneration of its Board Members after considering the
          recommendations of the RC. The objective of the Group's remuneration policy is to attract and
          retain the Directors and Senior Management required to lead and control the Group effectively. In
          the case of Executive Director and Senior M a n a g e m e n t , the components of the remuneration
          package are linked to corporate and individual performance. For Non-Executive Directors, the level
           of remuneration is reflective of their experience and level of responsibilities.

    6.2 Remuneration Committee

        The RC was established to assist the Board in assessing the Directors' fees and other benefits of the
         Board.The RC comprised exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The present members
         of the Remuneration Committee are as follows:-
          • Zhang Fuwei (Chairman)
          • Sun Huifeng (Member)
          • Chiang KaiMing(Member)
          The main duties and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
      )

                                                '

      )
                                            '

      )
                                                                                                                                           '

                                                                                                                        '

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   41
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

 6. Level and Composition of Remuneration (cont’d)

 4). recommending to the Board of Directors a Remuneration Framework on the fee structure and
 level of remuneration for the Executive Directors, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the
 Company) and Key Senior Management; and to review periodically or as and when it is necessary,
 recommend for Board's approval the changes;
 5). recommending to the Board of Directors the remuneration package for Non-Executive Directors
 and remuneration packages for each Executive Director, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the
 Company) and Senior Management;
 6). recommending to the Board of Directors the compensation commitments and severance
 payments for Executive Directors, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the Company) and Key
 Senior Management in the event of early termination of the employment/service contract;
 7). reviewing and recommending the granting of share options for the Executive Directors and Key
 Senior Management to the Board of Directors. If, however, the company is absolutely intent on
 granting share options to its Non-Executive Directors, then it should seek shareholders' approval prior
  to going ahead with the plan;
 8). the Board of Directors should determine who its Key Senior Management are and they may
 include the chief operating officer, director of subsidiaries within the group, etc., as is appropriate, in
 the opinion of the Board of Directors;
 9). each Committee Member should abstain from discussion or voting on any resolutions in respect
 of his own remuneration packages or that of employees related to him.

                                                                                       Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                    42
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

7. Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management

    7.1 Details of Directors' Remuneration
    The aggregate Directors remuneration paid or payable to all directors for the financial
    year ended 31 December 2024 are as follows :-

                                     Fees    Salaries Bonuses and other Benefit-in-kind Total
                                     (RM)
                                             (RM)        (RM)    (RM)  (RM)

Received from the Company:

Executive Directors                  -       74,078         -    -     74,078
Received on group basis:
Executive Directors                      -   74,078         -    -     74,078
Non-Executive Directors              88,000       -      6,500-
                                                                 -     94,500

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   43
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    7. Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management (cont’d)

               Remuneration of directors are as follows:

        7.2 Details of Senior Management's Remuneration
                The aggregate remuneration of the senior management for the financial year ended 31 December 2024
                 is as follows:

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   44
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

   PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

   Part I - Audit Committee

    8. Effective and Independent Audit Committee

        The AC was established by the Board to provide independent oversight on the Company's internal and
        external audit functions, financial reporting and internal control systems, and to ensure checks and
        balances within the Company.
        The AC comprising exclusively Non-Executive Directors with three(3) members, all of whom are Indepen-
        dent Directors, is chaired by an Independent Director. To ensure the overall effectiveness and indepen-
        dence of the AC, the positions of the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the AC are held by different
        persons. The Chairman of the Board is Wang Chao whilst the Chairman of AC is Sun Huifeng.
        The composition and details of the key activities carried out by the AC during the year are set out in the
        AC Report in this Annual Report.

    9. Financial Reporting

        The Board is committed to provide the highest level of disclosure possible to ensure integrity and consisten-
        cy of the financial reports, and to ensure the accounting records are properly kept, the Company and
        Group's financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable Financial Reporting standards in
        Singapore and the provisions of Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore. The Group publishes full finan-
        cial statements annually and condensed financial statements quarterly as required by the MMLR of Bursa
        Securities.
        The Board, with the assistance of the AC, takes due care and reasonable steps to ensure that its quarterly
        and annual financial statements are presented with accuracy, adequacy and comply with the requirements
        of approved accounting standards before announcing to shareholders and the general public. The Chief

      Financial Officerč“CFO”Ďpresented the condensed financial statements quarterly to the AC and further

        recommended to the Board for approval and release to the public.
        The Board is satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 Decem-
        ber 2024, appropriate accounting policies have been adopted, consistently applied and supported by
        reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates. All financial results required for announcement to Bursa
        Securities by the Board are released within stipulated timeframe. The Board also consider that all the
        relevant approved accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of these statements.

    10. Relationship with External Auditors and Its Independence

        The Board is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the Company and have taken
        reasonable steps in the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. To this, the Board
        emphasized on the objectivity and independence of the external auditor,UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.（“UHY
        Lee Seng Chan”） in providing transparent reports to the shareholders.
        Through the AC, the Board has established transparent and appropriate relationship with the Company's
        External Auditors. The AC had on 28 February 2025 conducted the annual assessment on the objectivity,
        suitability, independence, performance, experience, competency and quality of service delivered by UHY
        Lee Seng Chan.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   45
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

     10. Relationship with External Auditors and Its Independence ( cont'd )

      The AC has assessed and considered the adequacy of experience and resources of the firm,
      the qualified staff assigned to the audit, analysed on any non-audit services rendered and fee
      paid (if any), tenure of services of the External Auditor (appointed since 23 October 2017).UHY
      Lee Seng Chan continues to provide the independent assurance to shareholders on the
      Company's and the Group's financial statements.

      The AC is satisfied with the External Auditor's performance and recommended their re-
      appointment as the External Auditors for the financial year ending 31 December 2025 to the
      Board. Based on advice from the AC and upon considering the assessment made by the AC, the
      Board is satisfied with the independence and suitability of the external auditor and approved the
      AC's recommendation for the re-appointment of the External Auditor, UHY Lee Seng Chan, upon
      which the shareholders' approval will be sought at the forthcoming 2025 AGM.
      The representatives of UHY Lee Seng Chan were invited for AC meetings to provide disclosure
      of the annual audit findings for the respective reporting period specifically on financial matters
      and the integrity of systems that relate to financial aspects of the Company from time to time.
      UHY Lee Seng Chan had attended the Company's 2024 AGM to provide its report to the
      shareholders and attend to any issues raised on the conduct of the statutory audit and the
      preparation and content of their audit report.
      The annual audit fees paid to the External auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2024
      is RMB243,000.

11. Related Party Transactions
      All related party transactions are presented to the AC on a quarterly basis. For financial year ended
      31 December 2024 ,the Group rented office and factory premises from a director-related company,
       Yantai Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd, with annual rental expense amounting to RMB793,800.

12. Risk Management and Internal Control
      The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Company's system of internal controls
      covering financial,organisational,operational,and compliance controls as well as risk management
      in order to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets. The internal control
      system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,the risk of failure to achieve business
      objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material
      misstatement or loss.

      The Company has in place an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring
      and managing significant risks that may affect the achievement of business objectives
      throughout the year under review. This process is reviewed by the Directors with the assistance
      of the Company's Internal Audit Division.
      In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Internal Control Evaluation is adopted.
      Every department operates following the Internal Control Policy. All business units are required to
      document the controls and processes for managing the risks in their functional areas and to assess
      its effectiveness using the system.
      The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out on page 53 of this 2024 Annual
      Report provides an overview of the Group's approach to ensuring the effectiveness of the risk
      management and internal processes within the Group.

                                                                                       Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                    46
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C – INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING

                     AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

Part I – Communication with Stakeholders
13. Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders

     The Board recognises the importance of the right of shareholders, stakeholders and general public to be
     well informed on the activities and performance of the Group and to make their own evaluation and
     investment decision. The Group maintained an active and constructive communication policy that
     enables the Board and Management to communicate effectively with its shareholders.

     The Board does not have a Corporate Disclosure Policy. However, the Company ensures its disclosure is
     in compliance with the disclosure requirements as set out in the MMLR of Bursa Securities.

     The Company has established its website at http://ouhuawine.com/for shareholders and the
     public access the corporate information.

     The Company's website incorporates an Investor Relations section which enhances the Investor Relations
     function by including analyst reports, prospectus, all announcements made by the Company, annual
     reports, news, stock price, as well as the corporate and governance structure of the Company. The
     quarterly financial results are also announced via Bursa Link immediately after the Board's approval. This
     is important in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public.

     The Annual Report is also one of the main channels of communication between the Company and its
     stakeholders. The Annual Report communicates comprehensive information of the financial results and
     activities by the Group. As a listed issuer, the contents and disclosure requirements of the annual report
     are also governed by the MMLR of Bursa Securities. The Company dispatches its Annual Report to
     shareholders within the stipulated time. All information to shareholders are available electronically as
     soon as it is announced or published.

Part II – Conduct of General Meetings

14. Encourage Shareholder Participation at General Meetings
     The key element of the Company's dialogue with its shareholders is the opportunity to gather views and
     answer questions on all issues relevant to the Company at the AGM and any other general meetings. The
     notice and related papers are sent to shareholders 28 days before the AGM and any other general
     meetings. All shareholders are invited and encouraged to attend the Company's AGM and any other
     general meetings and to participate in the proceedings and understand their right to appoint a proxy
     where shareholders are entitled to appoint proxy/proxies to vote on their behalf in their absences. At the
     AGM and any other general meetings, the shareholders are encouraged to ask questions about the
     resolutions being proposed as well as to seek clarification on the Group's business and performance.
     In line with the amendments to the MMLR, the Company will implement poll voting for all resolutions set
     out in the Notice of AGM and any other general meetings. The Company will appoint Independent
     scrutineers to conduct the polling process and to validate the votes cast at the meetings and any other
     general meetings. The outcome of AGM and any other general meetings will be announced to Bursa
     Securities via Bursa Link on the same day the general meeting is held.

     The Company's AGM and any other general meetings provides an effective and transparent
     communication with the shareholders where they are encouraged to raise questions to the Board during
     and after the meetings. The External Auditors would attend and respond to questions or clarify queries
      from shareholders.
     The Directors were present at the meeting to attend to questions raised by the shareholders. The minutes
     of the 2024 AGM was uploaded to the Company's website within 30 business days from the date of the
     meeting.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   47
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

        The Board shall continue to strive for high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
        The Board is of the view that the Company has in all material aspects satisfactory complied with the
        principles and practices set out in the Code, except for the departures set out in the Corparate
        Governance Report.This Statement was approved by the Board on 25 April 2025

OTHER INFORMATION

        a. Utilisation of Proceeds
            There were no corporate proposals carried out during the financial year under review.

        b. Non-audit Fees
            There was no non-audit fees paid out during the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

        c. Material Contract
            There were no material contracts(not being contracts entered in the ordinary course of business)
            entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries, involving the directors' and major shareholders'
            interests during the financial year.

        d. Contract relating to loans
            During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, there were no contracts relating to loans
            entered into by the Company and its subsidiary which involved Directors’and major
            shareholders’interest.

        e. Recurrent Related Party Transaction of a Revenue of Trading Nature ("RRPT")

        The Company did not enter into any RRPT during the financial year ended 31 December 2024. The
        Company is not seeking a shareholders' mandate for RRPT.

DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE PREPARATION OF THE
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The Directors are required by the Singapore Companies Act (Chapter 50) to prepare financial
        statements that are in accordance with the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards and reflect a true
        and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the results and
        cash flows of the Company for the financial year.

        The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
        state of affairs of the Group and the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and
        cash flows of the Group and the Company for the financial year.

        In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:

        • adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;

        • made judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable;

        • ensure that applicable accounting standards have been followed;

        • prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis; and

        • ensure that proper accounting records are kept so as to enable the preparation of the financial
        statements with reasonable accuracy.

        The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
        assets of the Group and the Company, and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                 48
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control

Introduction

The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance requires listed companies to maintain a sound system of
internal control to safeguard shareholders’internal control to safeguard shareholders.

The Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia-Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
require Directors of public listed companies to include a statement in their annual reports on the state of their
internal controls. The Bursa Securities’Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors of Public Listed Companies ( Guidance ) provides guidance for compliance with these
requirements.
The Board of Directors continues with its commitment to maintain a sound system of internal controls
throughout the Group and is pleased to provide this Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control
which outlines the nature and scope of internal control of the Company during the year under review
pursuant to the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which has been prepared in accordance with the Guidance.

Responsibility of the Board

The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Company’s system of internal controls covering

financial,  organisational, operational, and compliance controls as well as risk management. The internal
control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The Board has received assurance from the CEO, that the Group's risk management and internal control
systems are operating adequately and effectively.

Risk Management Framework

The Company has in place an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing
significant risks that may affect the achievement of business objectives throughout the year under
review. This process is reviewed by the Directors via the assistance of the Company’s Internal Audit
Division.

In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Internal Control Evaluation is adopted.
Every department operates following the Internal Control Policy. All business units are required to
document the controls and processes for managing the risks in their functional areas and to assess its
effectiveness using the system.

Key Elements of Internal Control

Key elements of the Company’s system of internal control include the following:

 1) An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company;
        which has been in place for the year under review and reviewed by the Directors;

 2) A regular review of the performance of the Company by the Directors at its meetings to ensure it is in line
        with the Company’s overall objectives;

 3) A regular review of the high-risk area of business processes by the Company’s Internal Audit
        Division, which reports directly to the Audit Committee and submits the Internal Audit Report, to assess the
        effectiveness of internal controls and to highlight any significant risk that may adversely affect the
        Company. The Internal Audit Report should be submitted to the Board of Directors in their quarterly
        meetings for discussion； and

 4) Whenever necessary, the Audit Committee reviews and discusses with key management on the actions
        taken on issues brought up by the Company’s Internal Audit Division and from the review of the
        statement by the External Auditors.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2024

   49
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control

Review of the statement by External Auditors

The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for the inclusion
in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2024 and nothing has come to their attention that causes
them to believe that the statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the
Board in reviewing the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk management process as well as the adequacy and
integrity of the system of internal controls of the Group.
Recommended Practice Guide 5, Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Controls (“RPG 5”) does not require the External Auditors to consider whether the
Directors’Statement on Risk Management and Internal Controls covers all risks and controls, or to form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control procedures.

Conclusion

The Board takes cognisance of the importance of the system of internal control and the Company will continu-
ously monitor their business operation for compliance with the MMLR of the Bursa Securities.

                                                               - Intentionally left blank -

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   50
Additional Compliance Information

1.Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposals
there were no proceeds raised from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31 December
2024.
2.Material Contracts
there were no material contracts of the Company and its subsidiaries, involving the Directors and major
shareholders interests during the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
3.Audit and Non-audit Fees
the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable to the external auditors and their affiliates by the
Company and the group for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 are as follows:-

                                                               - Intentionally left blank -

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2024 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   51
