2020
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the ”Company”or ”China Ouhua”) was incorporated in Singapore in 2009,
and holds 95% equity of Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd., and holds 100% equity of Recap Resources
Sdn Bhd. The Company was successfully listed on Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (”Bursa
Securities”) on 3 November 2010, making the Company the first winery company ever listed on Bursa Securities.
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd. (”Yantai Fazenda Ouhua”) was founded in 1997. The winery is situated in
Yantai, Shandong, People’s Republic of China (”PRC”)—the only ”International Grape City”in Asia. The main
business of Yantai Fazenda Ouhua involves brewing, bottling, sales and distribution of grape wine in the PRC.
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua currently possesses numerous advanced grape wine production equipment imported from
Italy. China Ouhua is a company with long history in grape wine production.
Recap Resources Sdn Bhd was founded in Malaysia in 2019, and is still dormant.

       中国欧华葡萄酒控股有限公司是2009在新加坡注册成立的控股公司，主要控股中国烟台欧华葡萄酿酒有限公司95%的股
权，并于2010年11月3号在马来西亚交易所主板成功挂牌，是马交所第一家葡萄酒挂牌公司。

        所控股的烟台欧华葡萄酿酒有限公司成立于1997年，公司位于亚洲唯一的“国际葡萄酒城”—烟台，是一家集酿造，灌
装及销售为一体的专业葡萄酒公司。其生产的葡萄酒产品主要在中国市场销售。公司拥有先进的意大利进口专用灌装设，一家
有着较长历史的专业葡萄酒制造公司。

                                          Annual Report 2020
2-------------------------------Notice of Annual General Meeting
7-------------------------------------------Operation Philosophies
8--------------------------------------------Corporate Information
9---------------------------------------------------Directors' Profile
13------------------------Profile of the Key Senior Management
14-------------------------------------------Chairman’s Statement
19---------- --------------Management Discussion and Analysis
20--------------------------------------- Sustainability Statement
22----------------------------------------Audit Committee Report
27-----------------Corporate Governance Overview Statement
43-------Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
45-----------------------------------Audited Financial Statements
101--------------------------------------Analysis of Shareholdings
106------------------------------------ ---List of Group Properties
------------------------------------------------------Proxy Form

                                   Annual Report 2020
 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 2021 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at

 Linggi Hall, Corus Paradise Resort Port Dickson, 3.5 km, Jalan Pantai, 71000 Port Dickson, Negeri Sembilan,
 Malaysia, on Wednesday, 30 June, 2021 at 9.00 a.m., for the following purposes:

As Ordinary Business:

1.  To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31       [Please refer to
                                                                                      Explanatory Note 1]
    December 2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors         Resolution 1
                                                                                      Resolution 2
    thereon.                                                                          Resolution 3
                                                                                      Resolution 4
2.  To approve the payment of Directors' fees for an amount not exceeding             Resolution 5
                                                                                      Resolution 6
    RM150,000.00 for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
                                                                                      Resolution 7
3.  To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits for an amount not exceeding

    RM10,000.00 from 1 July 2021 until the next Annual General Meeting of the

    Company.

4.  To re-elect Wang Chao, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the Constitution of

    the Company.

5.  To re-elect Sun HuiFeng, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the Constitution of

    the Company.

6.  To re-elect Chua Yeong Lin, retiring pursuant to Clause 117 of the Constitution

    of the Company.

.   To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the Company

    and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

As Special Business:
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
ordinary resolution:

8.  ORDINARY RESOLUTION

    Authority to issue and allot new ordinary shares pursuant to Section 161 of

    the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore (”the Act”)

    “THAT, pursuant to Section 161 of the Act and the Constitution of the

    Company and subject to the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

    and other relevant government/regulatory authorities, where such approval is

    necessary, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered

    pursuant to Section 161 of the Act to issue shares in the capital of the Company

    at any time until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the

    Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting of the

    Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier, and upon such

    terms and conditions and for such purposes and to such persons as the Board

    of Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the

    aggregate number of shares to be issued does not exceed 10% of the issued

    and paid-up share capital (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the

    time being AND THAT the Board of Directors be and is also empowered to

    obtain approval for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so

    issued on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.”               Annual Report 2020
9. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given.

Yang Bin（ISCA 818941)
              Secretary

31 May 2021

(i) NOTES ON IMPORTANT NOTICE

1. The Board of Directors (“Board”) is cognisant of the Covid-19 pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation which,
      to-date, is still subsisting. The health and safety of the Company’s shareholders, Directors, staff and other stakeholders is of
      paramount concern for the Company. In view of the foregoing, the Company wishes to advise shareholders that necessary
      steps and measures will be undertaken in holding the Company's 2021 AGM.

                               "

"

                                      '

   "                     ","  ", " "

2. A member of a Company shall be entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend,
      participate, speak and vote at meeting of members of the Company. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation
      to a meeting, provided that the member specifies the proportion of the member’s shareholdings to be represented by each
      proxy. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

3. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
      Act, 1991 (“SICDA”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary
      shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.

4. For a member of the Company who is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
      multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which
       the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee
      refers to an authorised nominee defined under SICDA which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection
      25A(1) of SICDA.

5. Where a member or the authorised nominee appoints more than two (2) proxies, or where an exempt authorised nominee
      appoints more than one (1) proxy in respect of each omnibus account to attend and vote at the same meeting, the
      appointments shall be invalid unless the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy is specified in the
      instrument appointing the proxies.

6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing signed by the appointor or by his attorney who is authorised in writing.
      In the case of a corporation, the instrument appointing proxy(ies) must be made either under its common seal or signed by an
       officer or an attorney duly authorised.

7.

      Annual Report 2020
 8.
                                                                                                                               1

                                                                                                                                                                              's

           The Proxy Form can be electronically lodged via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the Administrative Notes
            on the procedure for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.

 9. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Proxy Form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
10. Last date and time for lodging the Proxy Form is Monday, 28 June 2021 at 9.00 a.m.
11. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share

           Registrar's office at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business
           Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service
           Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
           Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 2021 AGM or adjourned general
           meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
            provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction
            in which it is executed.
12. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED
           certificate of appointment of authorised representative with the Share Registrar's office at Tricor Investor & Issuing House
           Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
           59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
           Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised
           representative should be executed in the following manner:

           (i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed under seal in accordance
           with the constitution of the corporate member.

           (ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed with the rubber
           stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
           (a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
           (b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
           incorporated.
 13. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this 2021 AGM, the Company shall be requesting
           Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 22 June 2021. Only a
           member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this 2021 AGM or appoint
           proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
 14. Members are advised to check the Company's website at www.ohuawine.com.my and announcements from time to time for
            any changes to the administration of the 2021 AGM that may be necessitated by changes to the directives, safety and
           precautionary requirements and guidelines prescribed by the Government of Malaysia, the Ministry of Health, the Malaysian
           National Security Council, Securities Commission Malaysia and/or other relevant authorities.

                                                                                                            Annual Report 2020
(i) PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY

                   '

                             '

      2. Item 2 and 3 of the Agenda
      Proposed Resolutions 1 and 2 – Approval of Directors’ Fees and Benefits
      The Directors’ fees proposed for the financial year ending 31 December 2021 are calculated based on the assumption that all
      Directors will hold office until the end of the financial year. This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees on current
      financial year basis. In the event the Directors’ fees proposed is insufficient (e.g. due to the enlarged Board size), approval will be
      sought at the next Annual General Meeting for additional fees to meet the shortfall.
      The Directors’ benefits are meeting allowances payable to Directors. Meeting allowances are calculated based on the Board size
      and the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings for the period from 1 July 2021 up to the next AGM. In the event
      the proposed amount is insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings or enlarged Board size), approval will be sought at the next AGM
      for the shortfall)
      3. Items 4, 5 and 6 of the Agenda
      Proposed Resolutions 3, 4, and 5– Re-election of Directors
      Wang Chao and Sun HuiFeng are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company pursuant to Clause 107 of the Constitution
       of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
      Chua Yeong Lin is standing for re-election as Director of the Company pursuant to Clause 117 of the Constitution of the Company
       and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election as director at the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
      The Board has through the Nomination Committee, considered the assessment of the Directors and agreed that they meet the
      criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
      Securities”) on character, experience, integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.

                                           Annual Report 2020
4. Item 8 of the Agenda
Proposed Resolution 7 - Approval for Issuance of new ordinary shares pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act
(Chapter 50) of Singapore (“the Act”).
The Proposed Resolution 7 is the renewal of the mandate obtained from the members at the last Annual General
Meeting (“the previous mandate”). The previous mandate was not utilized and accordingly no proceeds were raised.
The Proposed Resolution 7, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company, from the date of the above Meeting, the
authority to issue and allot ordinary shares from the unissued share capital of the Company up to an amount not
exceeding in total ten per centum (10%) of the issued and paid up Share Capital (excluding treasury shares) of the
Company for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the interest of the Company.
This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, shall continue in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting
of the Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier.
The General Mandate is to provide flexibility to the Company to issue new securities without the need to convene
separate general meeting to obtain its shareholders’ approval so as to avoid incurring additional cost and time. The
purpose of this general mandate is for possible fund raising exercise including but not limited to further placement of
shares for purpose of funding current and/or future investment projects, working capital, repayment of bank
borrowings, acquisitions and/or for issuance of shares as settlement of purchase consideration.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not issue shares pursuant to the mandate granted to the Directors at
the last Annual General Meeting held on 26 August 2020.

                                                                                                   Annual Report 2020
CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   7
                                                 Corporate Information

BOARD OF DIRECTORS                               AGENT IN MALAYSIA

 WANG CHAO                                       PFA Corporate Consultants Sdn Bhd (199201000856
 Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  (232360 T))
                                                 Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A,
 LOW CHIN GUAN                                   Vertical Business Suite
 Executive Director                              Avenue 3, Bangsar South
                                                 No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
 SUN HUIFENG                                     Tel: +6(03) 2783 9191 Fax: +6(03) 2783 9111
 Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                 AUDITOR
 ZHANG FUWEI
 Independent Non-Executive Director              UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.
 SAW MEI LING                                    600 1 Beach Road, #14-01 Golden Mile Tower,
 Independent Non-Executive Director              Singapore 199 589
  CHUA YEONG LIN                                 Tel: +65 6395 5100 Fax: +65 6298 6263
 Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                 MALAYSIAN SHARE REGISTRAR
AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                 Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn
SUN HUIFENG                                      Bhd (197101000970 (11324-H))
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)    Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business
ZHANG FUWEI                                      Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)      Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
SAW MEI LING                                     Tel +6(03) 2783 9299, Fax: +6(03) 2783 9222
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
CHUA YEONG LIN                                   PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
                                                 China Construction Bank
NOMINATION COMMITTEE                             Bank of China
                                                 China Merchants Bank
CHUA YEONG LIN                                   Overseas Chinese Banking Corporation
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)
SUN HUIFENG                                      REGISTERED OFFICE
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
ZHANG FUWEI                                      Singapore
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)      60 Paya Lebar Road #08-10 Paya Lebar Square
SAW MEI LING                                     Singapore 409051.
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)      Tel: +65- 6816 2449 Fax: +65-6491 5194
                                                 Malaysia
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE                           Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A,
                                                 Vertical Business Suite
ZHANG FUWEI                                      Avenue 3, Bangsar South
Chairman (Independent Non-Executive Director)    No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur
SUN HUIFENG                                      Tel: +6(03) 2783 9191 Fax: +6(03) 2783 9111
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
SAW MEI LING                                     BUSINESS OFFICE
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)
                                                 Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE                        No. 3 North Wolong Road
                                                 Yan Tai City Shan Dong Province The PRC
WANG CHAO                                        Tel: +86-535-6020999 Fax: +86-535-6012708
Chairman (Executive Chairman and CEO)            Email: brucewy@126.com
SUN HUIFENG
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)      STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
SAW MEI LING
Member (Independent Non-Executive Director)      Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
                                                 Stock name/code: CNOUHUA/5188
COMPANY SECRETARY
                                                          Annual Report 2020
Yang Bin（ISCA 818941)                                                                                                         8
   Directors’ Profile

                                                          Wang Chao (Key Senior Management)

                                                                                      Wang Chao, Chinese, aged 59, male, is our founder and was
                                                                                       appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009 and
                                                                                       subsequently appointed as Executive Chairman and Chief
                                                                                       Executive Officer ("CEO") on 23 November 2009.
                                                                                      He is also appointed as Chairman of Risk Management
                                                                                      Committee on 27 February 2018.
                                                                                      He is responsible for the overall direction and management
                                                                                      of our Group. He studied in Shandong TV University, PRC
                                                                                      and obtained a Diploma in Industrial Business Management
                                                                                      in 1987. From 1979 to 1997, he held various managerial
                                                                                      positions such as Investment Manager of China
                                                                                      Construction Bank's Yantai Branch, Credit Planning
                                                                                      Manager of the People's Bank of China, Yantai Branch, and
                                                                                      General Manager of Yantai Municipal People's Bank
                                                                                      Industrial Development Corporation.
      He left the banking industry in 1997 to set up Yantai Ouhua Winery Co., Ltd. (”YO Winery”) in order to pursue his
      interest and passion in the wine industry. Since then, Mr. Wang has played a pivotal role in steering our Group's
      growth and success in the wine industry in PRC. His experience in the finance and banking industry prior to founding
      our Group, coupled with his drive and passion for our wine business have been instrumental to our Group's success
      to date. He has conceptualised and implemented various strategies that have led our Group to current position in the
      PRC wine industry.

      He is a member of the Yantai's Chinese People's Political Consultative Committee, a Foreign-owned Enterprise
      Association and the Vice President of Huangwu Chamber of Commerce, Yantai City.

      He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has no
      conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than
      traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the
      financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                                              Annual Report 2020
9
 Directors’ Profile (cont’d)

   Low Chin Guan

Low Chin Guan, Malaysian, aged 49, male, was appointed as our Executive Director on 8 November 2019.
Mr Low has more than 20 years of experience in the field of Sales and Marketing. He graduated with a Bachelor of
Science from University of Putra Malaysia. He started his career in 1995 as Sales Executive in a building material trading
company. After that he work as Business Unit Manager for local public listed carton box manufacturer company in
Malaka. Then he became the Head of Operation for an American system formwork company till 2009. He further his
advancement to be General Manager of Malaysia tiles manufacturing company from 2009 till 2017. Subsequently, he
started his business when he secured an exclusive sole distributorship of tiles from one of the biggest China tiles
manufacturer in Malaysia. Currently he is the Executive Director in the company.
He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has no
conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other
than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

  Sun HuiFeng

 Sun Huifeng, Singaporean, aged 42, male, w as appointed as our Independent Non-Executive Director on 27
  September 2013. He is also the Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Nomination Committee, Remuneration
 Committee and Risk Management Committee.
 He is a full member of Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA). He is also a fellow member of the
 Association of the Chartered Certified Accounts (FCCA). He obtained Bachelor Degree in applied accounting
 from Oxford Brookes University in United Kingdom.
 Mr. Sun joined Deloitte & Touche LLP Singapore as an auditor since May 2004, his job scope include general audit
 and review, supervision of fieldwork, staff training, IPO consultancy, etc; his client portfolio are from various industries
 such as manufacturing, shipping, trading and real estate. He left Deloitte & Touche LLP as Assistant Manager and
 join ARA Assets Management Limited (”ARA”) in 2009, his job scope include oversee China subsidiary finance
 team's daily operation, annual budget and tax review, he also participated in project acquisition and disposal. Mr.
 Sun left ARA as Finance Manager and set up his own business in 2009, mainly focus on accounting, tax, IPO
 and management consultancy.
 He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has
 no conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other
 than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
 the financial year. He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                                                                                                          Annual Report 2020CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                  Directors’ Profile (cont’d)

   Zhang Fuwei

  Zhang Fuwei, Chinese, aged 65, male, was appointed as our Independent Non- Executive Director on 15 January 2014.
  He is also the Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Audit and Nomination Committees.
  Mr Zhang has Bachelor of Science Degree in Physics. Mr Zhang Fuwei (Mr Zhang) joined Yantai Bureau of Standard
  Measurement as an Assistant Engineer in August 1979. In February 1984, he joined Yantai Economic Commission as a
  Technology Quality Manager, his job scope includes enterprise technology development and management as well as
  enterprise quality management. In September 2002, Mr. Zhang joined Yantai Comprehensive Information Center as a
  Deputy Controller. He is responsible for enterprise informatisation. He left Yantai Comprehensive Information
  Center and joined Yantai Information Industry Bureau as deputy director in May 2003. He is responsible for
  management of electric information product. He retired from the position since October 2010.
  He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has no
  conflict of inwterest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
  offences,if any) and there was no sancition or penaity imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
  year.He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

     Saw Mei Ling

   Saw Mei Ling, Malaysian, aged 46, female, was appointed as our Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 November
   2019. She is member of Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk Management
   Committee.
   Ms Saw has more than 15 years of experience in the fields of accounting and finance. She graduated with a Bachelor of
   Social Science Degree from University Science of Malaysia. She started her career in 1999, in trading industry. After that,
    she worked as a Account Executive in construction industry from 2001 to 2003. Then she joined as head of accounting
   department of Wabina Construction & Engineering Sdn Bhd from year 2003 to 2009. She was head of the accounting
   department of different companies until 2019.

   She does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. She
   has no conflict of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five
   years (other than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
   regulatory bodies during the financial year. She does not hold any directorship in other public companies
   and listed issuers.

                                               Annual Report 2020
11
 Directors’ Profile (cont’d)

  Chua Yeong Lin

 Chua Yeong Lin, Malaysian, aged 42, male, was appointed as our Independent Non-Executive Director on 25 November
 2020.
 He is also the Chairman of Nomination Committee and member of Audit Committee.
He is an Asean Chartered Professional Accountant and Member of Malaysian Institute of Accountant. He started his career
as a Senior Audit Associate at Ernst & Young in April 2003, then he joined E-Green Technology Sdn Bhd as an Accountant ,
and from October 2009 to September 2012, as an Assistant Finance Manager at DD World Corporation Sdn Bhd, Finally he
set up his own businesses SYL Business Solutions in 2012 and CYL & Associates in 2013, which focus on accounting and
management consultancy.
He
1. Iqzan Holding Berhad (Formerly Known as Ire-Tex Corporation Berhad)
2. Seacera Group Berhad
3. Asia Media Group Berhad
He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has no conflict
of interest with the Company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year.

                                                                                                         Annual Report 2020CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                    12
Profile of the Key Senior Management

Wang Xizhou

Wang Xizhou, Chinese,  40  Chief Financial Officer  9 May 2

He is a member of the Association of Chartered Accountants(ACA),He is also member of the Chinese Institute of
Certified Public Accountants(CICPA),He graduated from Shandong University of Science and Technology,People’s
Republic of China in 2003.
He started his career as a purchasing assistant in Qingdao Oriental Tower Co., Ltd in year 2003. Then, he joined
Qingdao Weekly Group Co., Ltd in year 2004 as a junior accountant and was promoted to Assistant Finance Manager in
 year 2005. In May 2005, he joined a large accounting firm in Qingdao, People's Republic of China as project manager
until today. Mr Wang is an expert in tax law and accounting and he has accumulated 17 years of experience in
assignments related to auditing, tax planning, internal control consulting and financing.

He does not have any family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the company. He has
no conflict of interest with the company and has no conviction for any offences within the past five years
(other than traffic offences, if any) and there was no sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.He does not hold any directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.

                           Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                              13
                                              Chairman’s Statement

On behalf of the Board of Directors of China
Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (”China
Ouhua”) I am pleased to present the
Annual Report together with the Audited
Financial Statements of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

Introduction

Dear shareholders,

First and foremost, on behalf of the Company, I would like to thank all the shareholders for your continuous

concern and support for China Ouhua. I would like to report to you the performance of the business

operations of China Ouhua for the year 2020. For the past 12 months, despite the Stagnant Chinese winery

market and the       effect of COVID-19 pandemic, the Company had been proactively sourcing various

methods to improve the business operation by adjusting the product structure, and keeping the Company's

core business running properly. However, the Company's sale revenue has not improved as it was affected by the

economic situation.

In 2020, the revenue decreased from RMB 21.836 million to RMB 20.499 million reflecting decline of 6 %
The net loss for the year was RMB16.736 million. The increased in losses was mainly due to the impairment of
inventories, which amounted to RMB12.898 million.

Basically, the lack of growth in the Company’s core business was caused by both business operation and market
factors. The main factors include the exacerbated competition in China’s winery market and the increase in the
market share of imported wines in China which had led to a general decline in the sales performance of major
brands of domestic wines. The Company’s product competitiveness has also been affected and the sale revenue
growth has become slower. The wine industry has shown a weak growth, and the profit level has also declined.

Honours & Awards

The Company has the following honours & awards:
•“Vice-chairman unit”by Yantai Food Safely Association
•“Customer Satisfaction Awards”by China Customers’Association (CCA)
•“AAA Rating in trustworthiness”by Yantai Enterprise Credit Association
•“2nd Tier in Production Safety Standards ”by Yantai Bureau of Production Safety

Prospects

After analyzing the Company’s status in the past few years, the Management has maintained their confidence level
and has been working hard to find other development opportunities.The China winery industry has in recent years
been adversely affected by many factors such as the impact of imported wine and the change in local consumption
market, which has greatly affected the entire local wine industry and there were many enterprises encountered
losses. Despite of all the above, the wine industry will not collapse.The Company believe that there will
be opportunities available for the Company’s development and growth.Meanwhile,to fundamentally change
the current status of the Company, the Company will need to find new development projects. Thus, the
Management has been proactively looking and negotiating for new investment projects in order to drive the
company for on new developments. To this, the Company has set up a new business leadership.

                                              Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                  14
 Chairman’s Statement (cont’d)

 Prospects (cont’d)

team headed by the Chairman specializing in searching and negotiating new business. At the same time, the
Management has also been actively looking for new sale methods for the Company’s core wine business such as
online selling and product customization.

Although the market share of imported wine is growing rapidly, it has not exceeded the market share of domestic
wine in domestic market. Many companies will re-entering a new period of development with
the adjustment of products structure and improvement on product quality. Domestic wine will not be completely
replaced by imported wine and there are still opportunities for development.

Due to the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company s operating results will be facing a
challenging times ahead. Barring any unforeseen circumstances the management of the Company is confident to
lead the Company to a new era by diversifying into importation of overseas wine to market in new areas and online
business.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   15
In term of Investor Relations, the Company recognises the importance of the relationship and communication
with investors and will not disclose any confidential information to any shareholders or individuals. At the same
time, the Company also recognises the importance of being accountable to investors and has implemented a
communication policy and established a structured communication approach to enable the Board and
Management to communicate effectively with its investors and the general public. Other than the
communication with shareholders during general meetings, the Directors and senior management would also
take initiative to regularly visit major and some minority shareholders, regularly update the Company’s website,
to enable the shareholders to understand better on the Group’s latest operating financial position and the
Group’s future major project development plans.

Dear esteemed shareholders, please believe and have trust with the Management of the Company that we will
work hard and bring the Company into a new development stage. At the same time, I would like to express my
sincere appreciation to all shareholders and thank you for the trust and support rendered all these while. To our
business associates, customers, suppliers, bankers, business analysts and fund managers, we would like to thank
you for your contributions and initiatives. I would like to thank the management and staff of the Company who
have played important roles in contributing to the continued growth of the Company.
Last but not least, I would like to express my gratitude to all who have supported China Ouhua in our business
endeavours and moving forward we are confident we are able to bring the Company to a greater height, faster
development. With the staunch support from shareholders coupled with our hardworking efforts, we are able to
overcome the current challenges and find a new development direction.

Thank you very much.
Wang Chao

Executive Chairman & CEO
31 May 2021

                          Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                              16
                                     2020 12 31

各位股东们大家好，首先我代表中国欧华感谢全体股东对欧华公司一直以来的关心和厚爱。在这里向诸位报告,欧华公

司在过去的2020公司的经营情况，2020年公司面对中国葡萄酒市场的现状和                           ，想尽各种办法改善经营状况，调整

产品结构，使公司基本业保持正常进行，但受经济大形势的影响，销售收入没有 。

在2020年度内，公司的营业额从去年同期的                                    049 9  6  1673 6

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   17
      公司被选为烟台市食品安全协会副会长单位，山东省消费者协会颁发的消费者满意
单位称号，烟台市工商管理局、烟台市企业信用协会颁发的守合同重信用企业称号，
烟台市安全生产管理局颁发的安全生产标准化二级企业称号。

     经过对几年来的公司现状的分析，公司管理层没有丧失信心，并且一直在努力寻找发展机会。中国的葡萄酒市场经过了最
近几年国外葡萄酒进口冲击、国内消费市场变化等诸多原因的影响，使整个行业受到很大的影响，已经有很多企业效益下降
亏损。但是就整个葡萄酒行业来说是不会消失的，只要我们能在葡萄酒这个行业内站住脚，就会有机会发展，可重新成长起
来。同时要使公司从根本上改变现状，必须找到新的发展项目，所以公司管理层一直在积极的洽谈和寻找新的投资项目，使
新业务能够带动公司走上新的发展。为此，公司成立了以董事长为首的新业务领导团队，专门进行新业务的寻找和洽谈。同
时，我们的葡萄酒业务也在积极寻找新的销售方式，比如网上销售和产品定制等方式。目前进口葡萄酒市场占有率虽然发展
很快，但仍未超过国产葡萄酒的占有率。随着国内企业产品结构调整和产品质量提高，一定会有很多企业重新走上新的发展
时期，国产葡萄酒不会被进口葡萄酒彻底取代，仍有发展机会。

     经过2020年的经营过程和总结，我们认为虽然公司面临很大的挑战，但也有发展的机会。只要我们认真分析当前的市场
状况，找出一条适合公司发展的新路，是有可能使公司转变当前的不利状况。我们经过市场分析认为，目前市场上低价位、
大众消费的产品有一定潜在市场，同时公司已经加大进口葡萄酒在国内销售以增加营业额。公司管理层同时还计划找到新的
发展项目，使公司走上新的发展道路，将公司业务提升做大。

     我们一致认识到了做好投资者联系和沟通的必要性，不会向任何股东或个人泄露任何机密资料。同时我们也了解对投资者
负责的重要性，因此实行了一个沟通政策，建立了一个结构性的沟通方式。把公司的重要信息一一传达给投资者和所有投资
大众。除了作为与股东主要沟通的常年股东大会之外。董事及高管人员也采取主动定期走访大股东和部分小股东，定期更新
公司网站的讯息。让他们掌握公司营运财务状况和公司发展计划。

     我衷心感谢所有股东一路来给予我们的信任和支持。对于我们的商业伙伴、客户、供应商、银行家、财经分析员，以及基
金经理，我们更加感谢大家的支持和贡献。同时我也要感谢公司的管理层和员工，因为他们在促进公司的持续成长方面，扮
演了重要的角色。

     我要感谢所有为欧华公司发展给予支持的各界好友，我们有信心在未来的日子将公司推向更高、更快的发展空间，在各位
股东的支持下，经过我们的努力，使公司克服目前的困难，找到一个新的发展方向。

谢谢大家！
董事局主席&CEO：王超

                                                                                                      Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                  18
                    Management Discussion and Analysis

Overview of Performance

a) Revenue
For FY 2020, China Ouhua, which is principally involved in importing and sales of grape wines with its sole
manufacturing plant which is located in Yantai City, Shandong Province, China recorded a revenue decline of 6.12%

  or RMB 1.337 million from RMB 21.836 million in FY 2019 to RMB 20.499 million in current financial year.
Principal target market of China Ouhua’s wine products is throughout China. For FY 2020, the sales breakdown
between red wine and white wine were 100% and 0.00% respectively. The management made many efforts with
the objective to improve the sales revenue, given the competition of wine market in China remains highly
competitive and prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company has enhanced the sales of imported
wine and realised some effect.
b) Profit(Loss) after Taxation
Loss for FY 2020 was RMB 16.736 million as compared with FY 2019's profit of RMB 0.313 million.

                                                                                                                        ed
         .
c) Liquidity and Capital Resources

As at FY 2020, China Ouhua had cash and cash equivalent amounting to RMB 8.49 million with no

external borrowing. Total current assets was RMB 163.63 million and total current liability was RMB 2.63

million. Therefore, China Ouhua is confident that its existing financial standing is sufficient to finance its

working capital requirements for the next 24 months.

 Prospects

Moving forward, in the next financial year, the Management will continue to work hard to improve the sales
revenue. In view of the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, the Company will be facing challenging times ahead.
The Management of the Company is confident to lead the Company to a new era by diversifying into
importation of overseas wine to market in new areas and online business.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   19
Sustainability Statement

Sustainability and responsibility remains a key pillar of our business strategy. As a responsible committee
we to demonstrate responsible corporate conduct across all aspects of our operations.

This Sustainability Statement was prepared in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Main
Market Listing Requirements relating to Sustainability Statement in Annual Report of Listed Issuers
("Guidelines") issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and covers the Company’s business operations in
Malaysia for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

Sustainability Governance Framework

The Group is committed to adopt the best practices for a responsible business conduct taking into account the
enhancement of shareholders' values, maximisation of profits and sustainability of environmental resources.
ECONOMIC

To strengthen innovation and operational efficiency to ensure wine safety and towards a more
balanced resource –efficient management.

1) Right culture and shared values
2) Safety and health

3) Client-centric services

4) Value for shareholders

Other than the communication with shareholders during general meetings, the Directors and senior

management would also take initiative to regularly visit major and some minority shareholders,

regularly update the Company's website, to enable the shareholders to understand better on the

Group's latest operating financial position and the Group's future major project development

plans.                               Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                         20
 Sustainability Statement (cont’d)

 Sustainability Governance Framework

ENVIRONMENT
To adjust and adopt best practice solutions through innovative quality processes.
1) Environmental protection
2) Material efficiency
3) Energy and water consumption management
4) Waste, noise and effluent management
By saving water ,avoiding noise and efficiently using materials.

SOCIAL
To act as catalysts for boosting community development and support systems for long-term talent pipeline.
1) Equal employment and employee engagement
With equal pay for the same job and offering same opportunity for training and promotion.
2) Talent development and Training
Employees are recognised as a key source of competitive advantage at Ouhua, and every effort is
made to harness the competency of the human capital. The employees are trained annually with latest
technical and social skills that are essential to the Company's long-term success.
3) Community services Marketing Activities
The Company hosts various cultural events and seminars promoting wine culture on a regular basis in
order to foster effective communications between the consumers and the Company. The Company is also
active in hosting events with product giveaways to improve our brand recognition and brand image.
4) Staff Health & Welfare
For staff welfare, the Company reviews HR policies and employee benefits on a regular basis to ensure our
philosophies of "Sense of Belonging", teamwork and equal opportunity are observed. The employees
also enjoy benefits such as medicare and social securities insurance coverage.
The Company puts high regards on employees' safety. The Company runs health checks annually to
ensure our employees' health. Further, the Company is dedicated to improve our production process to
protect our employees from occupational injuries.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   21
Audit Committee Report

The Audit Committee currently comprises four (4)members:

Name                              Chairman / Member         Directorship

Sun Huifeng                       ChCaihramiramnan/ Member  Independent Non-Executive Directorctorship

Zhang Fuwei                       Member                    Independent Non-Executive Director

Saw Mei Ling                      Member                    Independent Non-Executive Director
                                  Member                    Independent Non-Executive Director
Chua Yeong Lin
(Appointed on 25 November, 2020)

  Terms of Reference

A. Purpose
The purpose of the establishment of Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in discharging its
responsibilities to safeguard the Company's assets, maintain adequate accounting records, develop and maintain

effective systems of internal control, with the overall objective of ensuring that Management creates and maintains
 an effective control environment in the Group. The Audit Committee also provides a channel of communication
 between the Board of Directors, Management, External Auditors and Internal Auditors.

 B. Composition of Audit Committee

(1) The Audit Committee shall be appointed by the Board from amongst the Directors of the Company which fulfills
      the following requirements:-

     (a) the Audit Committee must be composed of not fewer than three (3) members;
     (b) all the Audit Committee members must be Non-Executive Directors, with a majority of them being Independent

         Directors;
     (c) All members of the audit committee shall be financially literate and are able to understand matters under the

         purview of the Audit Committee including the financial reporting process. All members of the Audit Committee
         should undertake continuous professional development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments
         in accounting and auditing standards, practices and rules;
     (d) at least one (1) member of the Audit Committee:-

          (i) must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants; or
          (ii) if he is not a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, he must have at least three (3) years' working

              experience and:-
          (aa) he must have passed the examinations specified in Part I of the 1st Schedule of the Accountants Act 1967; or
          (bb) he must be a member of one of the association of accountants specified in Part II of 1st Schedule of the

                 Accountants Act 1967; or
          (iii) fulfills such other requirements as prescribed or approved by Bursa Securities.
     (e) no alternate director shall be appointed as an Audit Committee member;
     (f) A former key audit engagement partner of the Company’s external auditors firm is required to observe
     a cooling-off period of at least 2 years before he or she could be appointed as a member of the Committee.
(2) In the event of any vacancy in an Audit Committee resulting in the non-compliance of the above, the Company must fill
     the vacancy within three (3) months. A member of the Audit Committee who wishes to retire or resign should
     provide sufficient written notice to the Company so that a replacement may be appointed before he leaves.
(3) All members of the Audit Committee, including the Chairman, will hold office only so long as they serve as Directors of
    the Company.
(4) The term of office and performance of the Audit Committee and each of its members shall be reviewed by the
    Nomination Committee annually to determine whether such Audit Committee and members have carried out their
    duties in accordance with its terms of reference.

C. Chairman

The Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be an independent director and shall not be chairman of the Board.
The member of the Audit Committee shall elect a Chairman among themselves who shall be an Independent Director.
In the absence of the Chairman of the Audit Committee in a Meeting, the members present shall elect one of their
numbers to be Chairman of the Meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee should engage on a continuous basis with senior management, the head of
internal audit and the external auditors in order to be kept informed of matters affecting the Company.

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED

                                                                                                                                                                   22
Audit Committee Report (cont’d)

D. Secretary of the Audit Committee

The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the Audit Committee or in his absence, the Chairman of the Committee
or Chairman of the Meeting shall choose another person as the secretary of the Meeting.

E. Duties and Responsibilities of Audit Committee

The Terms of Reference of Audit Committee should be assessed, reviewed and updated at least annually by the Audit
Committee or as and when there are changes to the Company's circumstances, Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance,
Main Market Listing Requirement (“MMLR”) of Bursa Securities or any new regulations that may have an effect on the
Audit Committee's responsibilities. The Audit Committee should recommend any change to the Terms of Reference to the
Board of Directors for approval.

The main duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee shall be:-
(1) To assess the risks and control environment;
(2) To oversee financial reporting, review the quarterly results and year end
- financial statements of the Group, before submission to the Board of Directors for approval, focusing particularly on:-

a) changes in or implementation of major accounting policies and practices;
b) major risks areas;
c) significant matters and unusual events highlighted including financial reporting issues, significant judgements made
by management, significant and unusual events or transactions, and how these matters are addressed;
d) significant adjustments resulting from the audit; and
e) compliance with accounting standards, MMLR of Bursa Securities and other legal requirements.

(3) To evaluate the internal audit process and review the following with the Internal Auditors and report the same to the Board
    of Directors: -

    a) the effectiveness, adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resource of the internal audit functions and that
        it has the necessary authority to carry out its work;

    b) the internal audit plan and programme, processes, the results of the internal audit assessments processes, investigation
        undertaken and whether or not appropriate action is taken on the recommendations of the internal auditors;

    c) review any appraisal or assessment of the performance of members of the internal audit function;

    d) approve any appointment or termination of senior staff members of the internal audit function; and

    e) take cognisance of resignations of internal audit staff members and provide the resigning staff member an opportunity
       to submit his reasons for resigning.

(4) To evaluate the external audit process and review the following with the External Auditors and report the same to the

    Board of Directors:-
    a) the audit plan;

    b) the audit report;

    c) evaluation of the system of internal controls;
    d) any management letter sent by the external auditors to the Company and the Management’s response to such letter;
    e)the assistance given by the employees of the Company to the External Auditors; and
     f) all areas of significant financial risk and the arrangements in place to contain those risks to acceptable levels.

(5) To discuss problems and reservations arising from the interim and final audits, and any matter the auditors may wish

    to discuss (in the absence of management where necessary);
(6) To recommend the nomination of a person or persons as external auditors and consider the appointment or

    re-appointment, the audit fee and any questions of resignation or dismissal and on whether there is reason
    (supported by grounds) to believe that the Company’s external auditors is not suitable for re-appointment.;
(7) To review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and their services rendered, including non-audit
    services and professional fees, so as to ensure a proper balance between objectivity and value for money;
(8) To review any resignation letter from the External Auditors;
(9) To review conflict of interest situations and related party transactions that may arise within the Company/Group

including any transaction procedure or course of conduct that raises questions of management integrity;

(10)To establish the procedures for receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company and the

Group regarding                      , criminal offences involving the Company and the Group or its employees, questionable

accounting, auditing, business, safety or other matters that impact negatively on the Company and the Group.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   23
                               Audit Committee Report (cont’d)

E. Duties and Responsibilities of Audit Committee (cont'd)
(11) To monitor, review and assess the utilization of proceeds are consistent with the intention presented to investors for

     any fund raising exercise;
(12) To consider the major findings of internal investigations and management's response;
(13) To undertake such other functions and duties as may be required by statute or the LR, or by such amendments as may

      be made thereto from time to time;
(14) To consider other topics as defined by the Board; and
(15) Where the Audit Committee is of the view that a matter reported by it to the Board of Directors of the Company has

      not been satisfactorily resolved resulting in a breach of the LR, the Audit Committee must promptly report such matter
      to the Bursa Malaysia.

F. Rights of the Audit Committee
In performing of its duties and responsibilities, the Audit Committee shall:-
(1) have the authority to investigate any matter within its terms of reference;
(2) have the resources which are required to perform its duties;
(3) have full and unrestricted access to any information pertaining to the Company and the Group in the course of

    performing it duties;
(4) have direct communication channels with the External Auditors and person(s) carrying out the internal audit function

    or activity;
(5) be able to obtain independent professional or other advice at the expense of the Company and to invite outsiders with

    relevant experience and expertise to attend the Audit Committee meetings (if required) and to brief the Audit
    Committee; and
(6) be able to convene meetings with the External Auditors, the Internal Auditors or both, excluding the attendance of other
   Directors and employees of the Company, whenever deemed necessary.

G. Procedure of Committee Meetings
(1) Frequency of Meetings
The Audit Committee will meet at least four (4) times in each financial year although additional meetings may be called at
any time, at the discretion of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.

(2) Calling
Any member may at any time, and the Financial Controller and the Secretary shall on the requisition of any of the member
or the External Auditors, summon a meeting.
The Audit Committee meeting may be held at two (2) or more venues within or outside Malaysia using any technology
that enable the Audit Committee members as a whole participating in the meeting can hear each other and participate for
the entire duration of the meeting. Such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
All information and documents for the meeting must be made available to all members prior to or at the meeting.
A minute of the proceedings of such meeting is sufficient evidence of the proceedings to which it relates.

(3) Notice
Except in the case of an emergency, reasonable notice as the Committee Members deem fit of every meeting shall be
given in writing and the notice of each meeting shall be served to the member either personally or by fax or by post or by
courier or by e-mail to his registered address as appearing in the Register of Directors, as the case may be.

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   24
    Audit Committee Report (cont’d)

    (4) Quorum
    The quorum shall consist of a majority of Independent Directors and shall not be less than two (2).

    (5) Attendance
    The Financial Director, the Head of Internal Audit and a representative of the External Auditors should normally attend the
    meetings. Other Board members and employees may attend meetings upon the invitation of the Audit Committee.
    The Committee should meet with the External Auditors and Internal Auditors or both without executive Board members
    present at least once a year.

    (6) Voting

    A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands. In the case of an equality of votes, the
    Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

    (7) Keeping of Minutes
    Minutes of each meeting shall be signed by the Chairman of the meeting at which the proceedings were held and kept as
    part of the statutory record of the Company upon confirmation by the Board.
    The Minutes of each Meeting shall be made available to all members of the Board upon request.

    (8) Custody, production and inspection of such minutes
    The minutes shall be kept by the Company at the Registered Office of the Company, and shall be open to the inspection of
    any member of the committee without charge.

    The number of Audit Committee Meetings held in the financial year and attendance of members

    During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Audit Committee held four (4) meetings and the attendance
    record is as follows:-

    Name of the Audit Committee Members                  Attendance  %

    Sun Huifeng (Chairman)                               4/4         100

    Zhang Fuwei                                          4/4         100

    Yap Chi Keong (Retired on 26 August, 2020)           3/3         100

    Saw Mei Ling                                         4/4         100

    Chua Yeong Lin(Appointed on 25 November, 2020)       1/1         100

                                      of the Audit Committee
The following activities were carried out by the Audit Committee during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 :
1. Overview of Financial Performance and Reporting

   • Reviewed business plan and budget for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
   • Reviewed the unaudited quarterly financial results for the quarters ended 31 December 2019, 31 March 2020, 30
   June 2020 and 30 September 2020 to ensure adequacy of the disclosure of information essential for a
 fair and true presentation of the financial affairs of the Group before recommending to the Board for approval.
 2. Oversight of External Auditors
   • Reviewed Audit Planning Memorandum prepared by External Auditors for the financial year ended 31

     December 2020, entailing mainly the scope of work and approach, significant areas of audit focus, key audit
     matters, fraud consideration, internal controls and amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards,
     International Accounting Standards and other Financial Reporting Matters in 4/2020 Audit Committee
     Meeting held on 26 November 2020.

    • Reviewed the results/findings of the audit conducted by External Auditors and discussed with the External
      Auditors on the significant/key matters noted during the course of the audit of the Group's financial statements.
      Had a private session with External Auditors without the presence of Executive Directors and Management for
      private discussion in 1/2020 Audit Committee Meeting held on 26 February 2020.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

25
Audit Committee Report (cont’d)

  Summary of Activities of the Audit Committee （con’d)

   • Reviewed and assessed the proposal for Appointment or Re-appointment of External Auditors and
      recommended the same to the Board of Director for further recommendation to the Shareholders of the
     Company for approval.

   • Assessed the suitability and Independence of the External Auditors for re-appointment. The AC had on the
     1/2021 AC meeting held on 30 March 2021, conducted as assessment and evaluation on the performance and
     independence in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements, i.e. adequ-acy
     of resources, experience of the firm and staff assigned, level of non-audit fees, rotation of partner, etc of the
     External Auditors of the Company, namely UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.

   • Reviewed changes in major accounting policies highlighted by the External Auditors.
   • Reviewed significant or unusual events highlighted by the External Auditors

3. Oversight of Internal Auditors

   • Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

   • Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Reports reported on quarterly audits conducted on areas such as
     Sales Management, Purchasing Management, fund management, inventory management, fixed asset
     management, human resource management together with the recommendations.

4. Oversight of Risk 'Management and Internal Control matters
   • The Risk Management Committee was established on 27 February 2018 which comprised majority of independent
   directors to oversee the Company's risk management framework and policies.
   • Reviewed the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee on the 2/2020 Audit Committee meeting held on
   30 June 2020.
   • Reviewed related party transaction of the group for the quarters ended 31 December 2019, 31 March 2020, 30 June
   2020, and 30 September 2020.

  Summary of Internal Audit Activities

The Company's Internal Audit Division is established to assist the Audit Committee in the discharge of its duties and
responsibilities. Its role is to undertake independent, regular and systematic reviews of the operation of the

companies to ensure proper systems of internal controls are in place. It also evaluates the processes where significant

risks are identified, assessed and managed to ensure instituted controls are appropriate, effectively applied and

achieve acceptable risk exposure consistent with the Company’s risk manag’ement policy.

                                              a                                                         cash

receipt and payment business bank deposits and receipts business b                       Material

procurement, stock material, material review), c) Fixed Asset Management(regular maintenance), d) Human

Resources Management (recruitment, employee assessment, the number of employees in the company's on-the-job

training, the percentage of employees participating in the training program, and the cost of providing

training courses, does the company have standardized labor contracts), e) Sales Management(inspection of

related sales contracts, sales invoices, payment slips), f) Purchasing Management(randomly check the agency

import agreement, check current procurement policy, ordering plan, purchase price and quantity).

The Audit Committee monitors the operation of internal audit function closely, to ensure targets are met and

internal audit work to be carried out effectively and efficiently. Appointment of Internal Audit personnel is

reviewed by Audit committee. Internal audit report submitted to audit committee timely and’reviewed by the audit
committee. The scope and focus of internal audit work adapt to company's development, i.e. trade receivable

management to be monitored constantly, fixed assets and cash management as key area also been inspected.

Internal committee formally communicates with the Audit Committee for internal audit concern and improvement to
be followed up.
During the financial year, there was no material internal control failure that was reported that would have resulted
in any significant loss to the Company.
All the Internal Audit functions were conducted by the in-house audit team. There were no areas of the Internal Audit

function which were outsourced. The total costs incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the financial

year ended 31 December 2020 was RMB 108,000.

                                              Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                  26
Corporate Governance Overview Statement

The Board of Directors is fully committed to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance
including accountability and transparency are practiced by the Company and throughout the Group as a
fundamental part of discharging its responsibilities to protect and enhance shareholder value and the financial
performance of the Group.

To this end, the Board continues to implement the principles and practices of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance(“Code”) towards achieving corporate excellence.

The ensuing paragraphs describe the extent of how the Group has applied and complied with the principles
and best practices of the Code for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. The detailed application for
each practice as set out in the Code is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report (“CG
Report”), announced together with this Annual Report 2020 in the Bursa Securities's website. The CG Report
is also available at www.ohuawine.com.my.

 PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

 Part I - Board Responsibilities

1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals

1.1 Strategic Aims, Values and Standards

The Board retains full and effective control of the Company. This includes the responsibility for

determining, reviewing and monitoring the Company's overall strategic directions as well as

development of the Group in an effective and responsible manner. Key matters reserved for the Board's

approval include but not restricted to the following:

-  approval of annual audited financial statements and quarterly result, including accounting

policies of the Group;

-  review and approval of annual financial budget and long term business plans;

-  business acquisition and disposal;

-  major capital expenditures;

-  establishment of new businesses or entries into new business ventures;

-  financing of the Group's activities and financial performance; and

-  any corporate restructuring not covered by the above mentioned paragraphs.

To ensure the effective discharge of its function and responsibilities, the Board had delegated specific

powers and responsibilities of the Board to the relevant Board Committees such as Audit Committee

(“AC”) , Nomination Committee (“NC”) , Remuneration Committee (“RC”), and Risk

Management Committee (“RMC”) to act on behalf of the Board to oversee the Group's affair, which

operates within the respective clearly defined terms of reference.

1.2 The Chairman

Wang Chao is the Chairman of the Company who is responsible for instilling good corporate
governance practices, leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
The profile of the Chairman is set out in the Directors' Profile of this Annual Report. The Chairman's
responsibilities include:
-leading the Board in setting the values and standards of the Company including good corporate
governance;
- facilitating the effective contributions of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations
be maintained between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   27
 Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals (cont'd)
      - managing the business of the Board by, amongst others, setting the Board agenda, leading Board meetings
        and discussions and ensuring sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious
        issues.
        The Chairman chairs all Board meetings and drives discussions towards consensus, where possible.
        The Chairman also chairs shareholders' meetings.

1.3 Separation in the Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)

         The Code recommends that, the role of the Chairman and CEO should be separated and should not
         be performed by the same individual. Mr Wang Chao holds the roles of Chairman and CEO in the
         best interest of the Group.
         The holding of two roles by Mr Wang Chao is due to his valuable technical and governance knowl-
         edge in the business operations coupled with his vast experience in winery industries. With his
         in-depth experience, Mr Wang Chao is able to provide different prospective, deep insight and guid-
         ance on strategic direction as well as an effective management of the Company.
         Despite the above, the Board is satisfied with the Board composition comprising a majority of Inde-
         pendent Directors to carry out the Board's priorities objectively and impartially and to ensure the
         Company is fairly and effectively managed in the best interest of stakeholders. The current Board is
         now comprised 67% Independent Non-Executive Directors.
         The Board continues to be mindful of the deviation from the recommendations of the Code and is
         of the view that there is a check and balance of role, responsibilities and accountability at the Board
         level. The Company is also planning to find a competent person suitable for the role of Chairman.

1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries

         The Board is supported by a qualified Company Secretary, namely Yang Bin, and Agent in Malaysia
         namely PFA Corporate Consultants Sdn Bhd in discharging its role and responsibilities. The Board
         ensures that the Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia appointed have the relevant experiences
         and skills. The appointment and removal of Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia of the Company
         shall be the prerogative of the Board as a whole.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia plays an important advisory role and to provide guid-
         ance, information and advice to the Board and Board Committees on issues relating to corporate
         compliance with the relevant laws, rules, regulations and procedures affecting the Board and the
         Group, as well as the practices of the Code. The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia constantly
         keep themselves abreast of the evolving capital market environment, regulatory changes and
         developments in CG and circulates relevant guidelines and updates on statutory and regulatory
         requirements from time to time for the Directors' reference and knowledge.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia attends Board and Board Committee meetings and
         ensures that all board papers are sent to the members on a timely basis, meetings are properly
         convened and appropriate records of the deliberations and proceedings are accurately recorded
         and duly signed by the Chairman of the meeting.
         The Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia works closely with the Management to ensure that there
         are timely information flows within and to the Board and Board Committees, and between the
         Non-Executive Directors and Management.

1.5 Access to information and advice

         Prior to Board meetings, the Notice and agenda together with the other relevant papers covering
         quantitative and qualitative information（"Board Papers"）are distributed to all Directors not
         less than three days before a meeting for their perusal. Minutes of a Directors' meeting would be
         distributed to all Directors on a timely basis for review and thereafter for confirmation at the next

                                                                                           Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                        28
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

1. Board's Leadership on Objectives and Goals (cont'd)

             board meeting. The signed board minutes are being kept in the minutes books.

             The Board Papers contain information pertinent to the matters to be deliberated at the coming meeting
             and any details or clarifications that the Directors may require on the agenda items would be furnished
             upon request. In a potential conflict of interest situation, the Director concerned would be required to
             declare his interest and abstain from decision making.

             The Board has unrestricted access to all staff for any information pertaining to the Group's affairs. In addition, the
             Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the
             Board meeting procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are being complied with. The
             Board may also seek independent advice at the Company's expenses whenever the need arises.

2. Demarcation of Responsibilities

       2.1 Board Charter

             The Board Charter was adopted by the Board on 1 January 2015. The Board Charter includes the
             division of responsibilities and powers between the Board and Management as well as the different
             committees established by the Board. The Board Charter was last reviewed during the 1/2021 Board of
             Directors’ Meeting held on 30 March 2021 and would be periodically reviewed and updated in
             accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations that may have an impact on the
             discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board Charter is available on the Company's website at
             www.ohuawine.com.my.

3. Good Business Conduct and Corporate Culture

3.1 Code of Conduct and Ethics

The Company has formalised an ethical standard in writing through a Code of Conduct and Ethics. The

Code of Conduct and Ethics governs the standard of conduct, behaviour and responsibilities expected

from all Company Directors and employees by setting out the principles, practices and standards of

good personal and corporate behaviour as below:

i.    act in the Company's best interest and value the Company's reputation;

ii.   act with Honesty and Integrity;

iii.  treat others with respect and value difference and maintain a safe working environment;

iv.   identify conflicts of interest and manage them;

v.    respect and maintain privacy and confidentiality;

vi. do not make or receive improper payments, benefits or gains;

vii. compliance with the Code of Conduct and Ethics, legal and regulatory requirements and compa-

ny policies; and

viii. immediately report any breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, or the Company's policies

and procedures.

The Code of Conduct and Ethics outlines the Group's commitment to appropriate and ethical practices,

establishes ethical standard to ensure that working environment and condition are safe and healthy,

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and business operation are conducted ethically.

The Group Human Resource is responsible for on-going review and development of the Code of Con-

duct and Ethics. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and Ethics tantamount to a serious breach

and investigation or disciplinary action will be taken by the Company for the non-compliance.

The Code of Conduct and Ethics is available on the Company's website at www.ohuawine.com.my.

3.2 Whistle-blowing policy

The Whistle-blowing Policy was approved and adopted by the Board at the Board Meeting held on 27
February 2017. The Board recognises and understands the importance of Whistle-blowing policy in

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   29
    Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

            strengthening the overall business conduct, demonstrates accountability, enhance the integrity and
            ethical behaviour, facilitate the risk management and at the same time encourage sound corporate
            governance practices. The Whistle-blowing policy is available on the Company's website at
            www.ohuawine.com.my.

Part II - Board Composition

4. Board's objectivity

     4.1 Composition of the Board

            The Board currently consists of six (6) members, comprising two (2) Executive Directors and four (4)
            Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Company is in compliance with Paragraph 15.02 of the
            MMLR of Bursa Securities that two directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the higher,
            are Independent Directors. If the number of directors of the listed issuer is not 3 or a multiple or 3, then
            the number nearest 1/3 must be used.All the Independent Directors are independent of management
            and are free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of
            their independent judgment. The functions of Executive and Non-Executive Directors are separate and
            clearly defined. Generally, the Executive Directors are to manage the Group's daily operations and to
            implement the operational and corporate decisions. The Non-Executive Directors are to provide the
            Company with unbiased, independent views and decisions, after taking into consideration the interest
            of the shareholders, employees and business associates. The expertise of the Independent
            Non-Executive Directors complements the knowledge and experience of the Executive Directors in the
            formulation of the Company strategies and policies.

            The Board's composition represents a mix of knowledge, skill and expertise relevant to the activities of
            the Group.A brief profile of each Director is presented on page 9 to page 12 of the 2020 Annual Report.

            There is a balance of membership in the Board thus ensuring that no individual dominates the decision
            making process and the results thereof.

            The Code states that at least half of the board comprises Independent Directors and the current
            composition of the Board does meets with this best practice.

     4.2 Tenure of Independent Director

            The Code recommends that the tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term
            of nine (9) years. The 9 years can either be a consecutive service of 9 years or a cumulative service of 9
            years with intervals. Upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director may continue to
            serve on the Board subject to the director's re-designation as a Non-Independent Director. In the event
            the Board retains the said Director who has served in the capacity for more than 9 years as an
            independent director, the Board must justify and seek shareholders’ approval. In obtaining the
            shareholders’ approval, the Nomination Committee should conduct an assessment of the Independent
            Director(s) and recommend to the Board whether the Independent Director(s) should remain
            independent. If the Board continues to retain the Independent Director(s) after the twelfth (12) years, the
            Board shall seek shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process.
            None of the Independent Directors of the Company has served for a cumulative term of nine (9) years.
      4.3 Diverse Board and Senior Management Team

            Appointment of Board and Senior Management are based on objective criteria, merit and besides
            gender diversity, due regard are placed for diversity in skills, experience, age and cultural background.
            Please refer to the Directors' and Senior Management's Profile on page 9 to 13 for further information.

     4.4 Gender Diversity

            The Board noted the recommendations of the Code on the establishment of boardroom gender
            diversity. The Board took into account diversity as one of the selection criteria of Board and senior
            management appointees and the candidates' competency, skills, expertise, experience and
            commitment. The Board currently has one woman director, namely Saw Mei Ling who was appointed
            to the Board on 8 November 2019, and this constitutes 17% of the Board.

                                                                                                      Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                  30
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

4. Board's objectivity (cont’d)

4.5 Appointment of Directors

The NC is responsible to ensure that the procedure for appointing new Directors are focused on creating
good mix of skills, knowledge, expertise, experience, professionalism and integrity to enable the Board to
discharge its responsibilities effectively. Other factors considered include the candidates' ability to commit
sufficient time to the Company, their character and level of independence.

The Nomination and election process of new Directors are as follows:
i. Identification of skills and expertise
ii. Selection of suitable candidates
iii. Assessment and evaluation based on established framework
iv. NC's deliberation
v. Recommendations by the NC for the Board's consideration and approval

Recommendations by the NC are reported at the meeting of the Board by the Chairman of the NC for the
Board's consideration and approval. The final decision as to who shall be appointed to the Board and
various Board Committees shall be the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendation of the NC.

4.6 Nomination Committee

        The Board has delegated the NC the responsibility for considering the appointment of Directors, identifying
        and selecting potential new directors and proposing to the Board the appointment of new Directors. The
        NC comprised four Independent Non-Executive Directors as follow:

        .Chua Yeong Lin
        .
        .
        .

        The Term of Reference of the NC is available on the Company's website at www.ohuawine.com.my.

        The main duties and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee

        The Terms of Reference of the NC provides that the NC shall have specific responsibilities with respect to
        the nomination matters. The specific responsibilities of the NC include, amongst others:
        i. To recommend to the Board of Directors, the candidates for all directorships to be filled by the

             shareholders or the Board of Directors. In making its recommendations, the Nomination Committee
             should consider the candidates:
             a. skills, knowledge, expertise and experience;
             b. professionalism;
             c. integrity; and
             d. in the case of candidates for the position of independent non-executive directors, the NC should also
             evaluate the candidate's ability to discharge such responsibilities/functions as expected from
             independent non-executive directors.
        ii. To consider, in making its recommendations, candidates for directorships proposed by the Managing
             Director/CEO and, within the bounds of practicability, by any other senior
             executive or any director or shareholder;
        iii. To recommend to the board, directors to fill the seats on board committees;
        iv. To assess annually the effectiveness of the board as a whole, the committees of the board and the
             contribution of each existing individual director, including Non-Executive Directors and CEO and
             thereafter, recommend its findings to the board;
        v. To ensure that all directors undergo appropriate induction programs and receive continuous training;
        vi. To oversee appointment, management succession planning and performance evaluation of key senior
             officer, and recommending to the Board of Directors, the removal of key senior officer if they are
             ineffective, errant and negligent in discharging their responsibilities;

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   31
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

4. Board's objectivity (cont’d)

               vii. To assist the Board of Directors in an annual review of the required mix of skills and experience and
                    other qualities, including core competencies which Non-Executive Directors should bring to the board;

              viii. To apply the process as determined by the Board of Directors, for assessing the effectiveness of the
                    board as a whole, the committees of the board, and for assessing the contribution of each individual
                    director, including independent Non-Executive Directors, as well as the Chief Executive Officer
                    where all assessments and evaluations carried out by the Committee in the discharge of all its
                    functions should be properly documented;

              ix. Each Committee Member should abstain from discussion or voting on any resolutions in respect of
                    the assessment of his performance or re-nomination as Director; and

               x. In exercising objectivity in the assessment process, the Committee Members should not be influenced
                    by major controlling Shareholders or the CEO or Executive Directors.

5. Overall Board Effectiveness
      5.1 Annual evaluation
             The Board undertakes an annual assessment of Independent Directors and is satisfied that they
             continue to bring independent and objective judgement to board deliberations. Peer and self
             assessment are carried out by the Directors and the AC members once every year. The results, in
             particular the key strength and weaknesses identified from the evaluation, will be shared with the Board
             to allow enhancements to be undertaken.
             The Board meets on a quarterly basis. Additional meetings may be convened to resolve any major and
             ad hoc matters requiring immediate attention. Meetings are scheduled ahead to facilitate Directors'
             attendance. During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Board has convened four (4)
             meetings. Senior Management staff was invited to attend board meetings to provide the Board with
             necessary detailed explanations and clarifications. Relevant information and documents are provided to
             the Board members prior to the Board meetings to enable them to duly discharge their duties. The
             Board Members remain committed and dedicated in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities and this
             is reflected via their attendance at each Board of Directors' Meeting（“BODM”）as listed below:

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   32
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    5. Overall Board Effectiveness (cont’d)

        The Board Committees are as follows:-
         • Audit Committee
         • Nomination Committee
         • Remuneration Committee
         • Risk Management Committee
        The following are the record of attendance for Nomination and Remuneration Committees' Meetings held
        in 2020:-
        Nomination Committee

Remuneration Committee

Risk Management Committee

                                     

The Risk Management Committee was established on 27 February 2018 and no meeting was held
during financial year 2020.

All Directors have complied with the minimum 50% attendance as stipulated by Paragraph 15.05(3)(c) of
the MMLR of Bursa Securities. The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment of the Directors
from their attendance at the Meetings.

Effective from 1st June 2013, the maximum number of directorships of a director in Malaysian public
listed companies is reduced from 10 to 5 under Paragraph 15.06 of the MMLR. The Board members is
allowed to accept other board's appointment only if the appointment is not in conflict with the business
of the Group and it would not detrimentally affect his or her performance as a board member of the
Group. Before accepting other board's appointment, the Chairman of the Board and the Company
Secretary/Agent in Malaysia shall be notified on the same. The notification should include an indication of
time that he/she will be spent on the new appointment of directorship in other companies. This is to
ensure the Director have sufficient time to fulfill their roles and responsibilities in the Company
effectively.

The Board is in compliance with Paragraph 15.06 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities on the restriction on

the number of directorship in listed companies held by the Directors where none of the Directors of the
Company holds more than 5 directorships in Malaysian public listed companies.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   33
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

          5. Overall Board Effectiveness（con’d)
            Directors' Training
            The Board acknowledged the importance of continuing education programmes or training for
            Directors and encourages the Directors to attend talks, seminars, workshops and conferences.
            Continual improvement allows the Directors of the Company to equip themselves with updated
            knowledge and skills which enable them to carry out their roles effectively as directors in
            discharging their responsibility towards corporate governance, operational and regulatory issues.
            In addition, the Directors were also briefed by the Company Secretary/Agent in Malaysia from
            time to time on updates and changes of statutory requirements such as amendments to
            MMLR of Bursa Securities.
            The NC had on 30 March 2021 assessed and evaluated the trainings undertaken by all the
            Directors throughout the financial year 2020. NC ensures all Directors receive appropriate
            continuous training programs by recommending the types of training for all the Directors to
            attend in order to broaden their perspectives and to keep abreast with developments in the
            market place and with changes in new statutory and regulatory requirements.
            The Board would evaluate the recommendations by NC and determines the training needs of the
            Directors. The Board members were invited to provide feedback on their training needs for the
            financial period under review. The Board then carried out an assessment on the training needs for
            each of the Board members.
            Save for Mr Zhang Fuwei who had been appointed to the Board on 15 January 2014 and was
            unable to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”) within four (4) months from
            the date of appointment, all the Directors of the Company had attended the MAP in accordance
            with the MMLR of Bursa Securities . Mr Zhang Fuwei was unable to attend the MAP because
            there were no MAP courses conducted in Mandarin for the time being.
            The details of trainings/seminars/conference attended by Directors during the financial year of
            2020 are as below:

                                                                                              Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                          34
 Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

Part III - Remuneration

6. Level and Composition of Remuneration

    6.1 Remuneration policy

          The Board determines the level of remuneration of its Board Members after considering the
          recommendations of the RC. The objective of the Group's remuneration policy is to attract and
          retain the Directors and Senior Management required to lead and control the Group effectively. In
          the case of Executive Director and Senior M a n a g e m e n t , the components of the remuneration
          package are linked to corporate and individual performance. For Non-Executive Directors, the level
           of remuneration is reflective of their experience and level of responsibilities.

    6.2 Remuneration Committee

        The RC was established to assist the Board in assessing the Directors' fees and other benefits of the
         Board.The RC comprised exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The present members
         of the Remuneration Committee are as follows:-

          • Zhang Fuwei (Chairman)
          • Sun Huifeng (Member)
          • Saw Mei Ling(Member)

          The main duties and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
          i. Ensuring that all the Executive Directors, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the Company)

             and Senior Management are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Company's
             overall performance;

          ii. Ensuring that the compensation and other benefits encourage Executive Directors to act in ways
             that enhance the Company's long term profitability and value;

          iii.Ensuring that the remuneration offered to the CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the
             Company) and Senior Management commensurate with the level of executive responsibilities
             and is appropriate in light of the Company's performance;.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   35
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

 6. Level and Composition of Remuneration (cont’d)

         iv. Recommending to the Board of Directors a Remuneration Framework on the fee structure and
              level of remuneration for the Executive Directors, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the
              Company) and Senior Management;

         v. Recommending to the Board of Directors the remuneration package for Non-Executive Directors
              and remuneration packages for each Executive Director, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director
              of the Company) and Senior Management;

         vi. Recommending to the Board of Directors the compensation commitments and severance payments
              for Executive Directors, CEO (where the CEO is not a Director of the Company) and Senior
              Management in the event of early termination of the employment service contract;

         vii. Reviewing and recommending the granting of share options for the Executive Directors and
              Senior Management to the Board of Directors. If, however, the Company is absolutely intent on
              granting share options to its Non-Executive Directors, then it should seek shareholders' approval
              prior to going ahead with the plan；

         viii. The Board of Directors should determine who its Senior Management are and they may include
              the Chief Operating Officer, Director of subsidiaries within the Group, etc., as appropriate, in the
              opinion of the Board of Directors； and

         ix. Each Committee Member should abstain from discussion or voting on any resolutions in respect
              of his own remuneration packages or that of employees related to him.

                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                    36
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

7. Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management

    7.1 Details of Directors' Remuneration

    The aggregate Directors remuneration paid or payable to all directors for the financial
    year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows :-

                                     Fees     Salaries Bonuses and other Benefit-in-kind Total
                                     (RM)
                                              (RM)       (RM)   (RM)  (RM)

Received from the Company:

Executive Directors                  -        106,200        -  -     106,200
Received on group basis:
Executive Directors                  -        106,200        -  -     106,200
Non-Executive Directors                                  9,000
                                     132,500  -                 -     141,500

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   37
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    7. Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management (cont’d)

               Remuneration of directors are as follows:

        7.2 Details of Senior Management's Remuneration
                The aggregate remuneration of the senior management for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 is

        as follows:

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   38
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

   PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

   Part I - Audit Committee

    8. Effective and Independent Audit Committee

        The AC was established by the Board to provide independent oversight on the Company's internal and
        external audit functions, financial reporting and internal control systems, and to ensure checks and
        balances within the Company.
        The AC comprising exclusively Non-Executive Directors with four(4) members, all of whom are Indepen-
        dent Directors, is chaired by an Independent Director. To ensure the overall effectiveness and indepen-
        dence of the AC, the positions of the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the AC are held by different
        persons. The Chairman of the Board is Wang Chao whilst the Chairman of AC is Sun Huifeng.
        The composition and details of the key activities carried out by the AC during the year are set out in the
        AC Report in this Annual Report.

    9. Financial Reporting

        The Board is committed to provide the highest level of disclosure possible to ensure integrity and consisten-
        cy of the financial reports, and to ensure the accounting records are properly kept, the Company and
        Group's financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable Financial Reporting standards in
        Singapore and the provisions of Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore. The Group publishes full finan-
        cial statements annually and condensed financial statements quarterly as required by the MMLR of Bursa
        Securities.
        The Board, with the assistance of the AC, takes due care and reasonable steps to ensure that its quarterly
        and annual financial statements are presented with accuracy, adequacy and comply with the requirements
        of approved accounting standards before announcing to shareholders and the general public. The Chief

      Financial Officerč“CFO”Ďpresented the condensed financial statements quarterly to the AC and further

        recommended to the Board for approval and release to the public.
        The Board is satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 Decem-
        ber 2020, appropriate accounting policies have been adopted, consistently applied and supported by
        reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates. All financial results required for announcement to Bursa
        Securities by the Board are released within stipulated timeframe. The Board also consider that all the
        relevant approved accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of these statements.

    10. Relationship with External Auditors and Its Independence

        The Board is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the Company and have taken
        reasonable steps in the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. To this, the Board
        emphasized on the objectivity and independence of the external auditor,UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co.（“UHY
        Lee Seng Chan”） in providing transparent reports to the shareholders.
        Through the AC, the Board has established transparent and appropriate relationship with the Company's
        External Auditors. The AC had on 30 March 2021 conducted the annual assessment on the objectivity,
        suitability, independence, performance, experience, competency and quality of service delivered by UHY
        Lee Seng Chan.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   39
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

     10. Relationship with External Auditors and Its Independence ( cont'd )

      The AC has assessed and considered the adequacy of experience and resources of the firm,
      the qualified staff assigned to the audit, analysed on any non-audit services rendered and fee
      paid (if any), tenure of services of the External Auditor (appointed since 23 October 2017).UHY
      Lee Seng Chan continues to provide the independent assurance to shareholders on the
      Company's and the Group's financial statements.

      The AC is satisfied with the External Auditor's performance and recommended their re-
      appointment as the External Auditors for the financial year ending 31 December 2021 to the
      Board. Based on advice from the AC and upon considering the assessment made by the AC, the
      Board is satisfied with the independence and suitability of the external auditor and approved the
      AC's recommendation for the re-appointment of the External Auditor, UHY Lee Seng Chan, upon
      which the shareholders' approval will be sought at the forthcoming 2021 AGM.
      The representatives of UHY Lee Seng Chan were invited for AC meetings to provide disclosure
      of the annual audit findings for the respective reporting period specifically on financial matters
      and the integrity of systems that relate to financial aspects of the Company from time to time.
      UHY Lee Seng Chan had attended the Company's 2020 AGM to provide its report to the
      shareholders and attend to any issues raised on the conduct of the statutory audit and the
      preparation and content of their audit report.
      The annual audit fees paid to the External auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2020
      is RMB238,339.84.

11. Related Party Transactions

      All related party transactions are presented to the AC on a quarterly basis. For financial year ended
      31 December 2020 ,there was no related party transaction.

12. Risk Management and Internal Control

      The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Company's system of internal controls
      covering financial,organisational,operational,and compliance controls as well as risk management
      in order to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Group's assets. The internal control
      system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,the risk of failure to achieve business
      objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material
      misstatement or loss.
      The Company has in place an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring
      and managing significant risks that may affect the achievement of business objectives
      throughout the year under review. This process is reviewed by the Directors with the assistance
      of the Company's Internal Audit Division.
      In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Internal Control Evaluation is adopted.
      Every department operates following the Internal Control Policy. All business units are required to
      document the controls and processes for managing the risks in their functional areas and to assess
      its effectiveness using the system.
      The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out on page 43 of this 2020 Annual
      Report provides an overview of the Group's approach to ensuring the effectiveness of the risk
      management and internal processes within the Group.

                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                    40
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE C – INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING
                         AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

    Part I – Communication with Stakeholders

    13. Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders

    The Board recognises the importance of the right of shareholders, stakeholders and general public to be
    well informed on the activities and performance of the Group and to make their own evaluation and
    investment decision. The Group maintained an active and constructive communication policy that
    enables the Board and Management to communicate effectively with its shareholders.

    The Board does not have a Corporate Disclosure Policy. However, the Company ensures its disclosure is
    in compliance with the disclosure requirements as set out in the MMLR of Bursa Securities.

    The Company has established its website at www.ohuawine.com.my for shareholders and the public
    access the corporate information.

    The Company's website incorporates an Investor Relations section which enhances the Investor Relations
    function by including analyst reports, prospectus, all announcements made by the Company, annual
    reports, news, stock price, as well as the corporate and governance structure of the Company. The
    quarterly financial results are also announced via Bursa Link immediately after the Board's approval. This
    is important in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public.

    The Annual Report is also one of the main channels of communication between the Company and its
    stakeholders. The Annual Report communicates comprehensive information of the financial results and
    activities by the Group. As a listed issuer, the contents and disclosure requirements of the annual report
    are also governed by the MMLR of Bursa Securities. The Company dispatches its Annual Report to
    shareholders within the stipulated time. All information to shareholders are available electronically as
    soon as it is announced or published.

    Part II – Conduct of General Meetings

    14. Encourage Shareholder Participation at General Meetings
         The key element of the Company's dialogue with its shareholders is the opportunity to gather views and
         answer questions on all issues relevant to the Company at the AGM and any other general meetings. The
         notice and related papers are sent to shareholders 28 days before the AGM and any other general
         meetings. All shareholders are invited and encouraged to attend the Company's AGM and any other
         general meetings and to participate in the proceedings and understand their right to appoint a proxy
         where shareholders are entitled to appoint proxy/proxies to vote on their behalf in their absences. At the
         AGM and any other general meetings, the shareholders are encouraged to ask questions about the
         resolutions being proposed as well as to seek clarification on the Group's business and performance.

    In line with the amendments to the MMLR, the Company will implement poll voting for all resolutions set
    out in the Notice of AGM and any other general meetings. The Company will appoint Independent
    scrutineers to conduct the polling process and to validate the votes cast at the meetings and any other
    general meetings. The outcome of AGM and any other general meetings will be announced to Bursa
    Securities via Bursa Link on the same day the general meeting is held.

    The Company's AGM and any other general meetings provides an effective and transparent
    communication with the shareholders where they are encouraged to raise questions to the Board during
    and after the meetings. The External Auditors would attend and respond to questions or clarify queries
    from shareholders.

    Board members are also available after these meetings for informal discussions.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

41
Corporate Governance Overview Statement (cont’d)

OTHER INFORMATION

        a. Utilisation of Proceeds
            There were no corporate proposals carried out during the financial year under review.

        b. Sanctions and/or Penalties
            There were no material sanctions and/or penalties imposed on the Company and its subsidiary,
            directors or management by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year under review.

        c. Non-audit Fees
            There was no non-audit fees paid out during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

        d. Material Contract
            There were no material contracts(not being contracts entered in the ordinary course of business)
            entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries, involving the directors' and major shareholders'
            interests during the financial year.

        e. Contract relating to loans
            During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, there were no contracts relating to loans
            entered into by the Company and its subsidiary which involved Directors’and major
            shareholders’interest.

DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE PREPARATION OF THE
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The Directors are required by the Singapore Companies Act (Chapter 50) to prepare financial
        statements that are in accordance with the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards and reflect a true
        and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the results and
        cash flows of the Company for the financial year.

        The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
        state of affairs of the Group and the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and
        cash flows of the Group and the Company for the financial year.

        In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:

        • adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;

        • made judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable;

        • ensure that applicable accounting standards have been followed;

        • prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis; and

        • ensure that proper accounting records are kept so as to enable the preparation of the financial
        statements with reasonable accuracy.

        The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
        assets of the Group and the Company, and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

        The Board shall continue to strive for high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
        The Board is of the view that the Company has in all material aspects satisfactory complied with the
        principles and practices set out in the Code, except for the departures set out in the Corparate
        Governance Report.This Statement was approved by the Board on 26 May 2021.

                                                                                                     Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                 42
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control

Introduction

The Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance requires listed companies to maintain a sound system of
internal control to safeguard shareholders’internal control to safeguard shareholders.

The Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia-Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
require Directors of public listed companies to include a statement in their annual reports on the state of their
internal controls. The Bursa Securities’Statement on Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of Public Listed
Companies (”Guidance”) provides guidance for compliance with these requirements.

The Board of Directors continues with its commitment to maintain a sound system of internal controls
throughout the Group and is pleased to provide this Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control
which outlines the nature and scope of internal control of the Company during the year under review
pursuant to the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which has been prepared in accordance with the Guidance.

Responsibility of the Board

The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Company’s system of internal controls covering

financial,  organisational, operational, and compliance controls as well as risk management. The internal
control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives
and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The Board has received assurance from the CEO, that the Group's risk management and internal control
systems are operating adequately and effectively.

Risk Management Framework

The Company has in place an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing
significant risks that may affect the achievement of business objectives throughout the year under
review. This process is reviewed by the Directors via the assistance of the Company’s Internal Audit
Division.

In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Internal Control Evaluation is adopted.
Every department operates following the Internal Control Policy. All business units are required to
document the controls and processes for managing the risks in their functional areas and to assess its
effectiveness using the system.

Key Elements of Internal Control

Key elements of the Company’s system of internal control include the following:
 1) An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company;

        which has been in place for the year under review and reviewed by the Directors;

 2) A regular review of the performance of the Company by the Directors at its meetings to ensure it is in line
        with the Company’s overall objectives;

 3) A regular review of the high-risk area of business processes by the Company’s Internal Audit
        Division, which reports directly to the Audit Committee and submits the Internal Audit Report, to assess the
        effectiveness of internal controls and to highlight any significant risk that may adversely affect the
        Company. The Internal Audit Report should be submitted to the Board of Directors in their quarterly
        meetings for discussion； and

 4) Whenever necessary, the Audit Committee reviews and discusses with key management on the actions
        taken on issues brought up by the Company’s Internal Audit Division and from the review of the
        statement by the External Auditors.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2020

   43
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control

Review of the statement by External Auditors

The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for the inclusion
in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2020 and nothing has come to their attention that causes
them to believe that the statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the
Board in reviewing the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk management process as well as the adequacy and
integrity of the system of internal controls of the Group.
Recommended Practice Guide 5, Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Controls (“RPG 5”) does not require the External Auditors to consider whether the
Directors’Statement on Risk Management and Internal Controls covers all risks and controls, or to form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control procedures.

Conclusion

The Board takes cognisance of the importance of the system of internal control and the Company will continu-
ously monitor their business operation for compliance with the MMLR of the Bursa Securities.

                                                               - Intentionally left blank -

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2020 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   44
