CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY CORPORATION

Company Registration Number: 200900709K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED
31 DECEMBER 2021

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2021

   51
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its subsidiary corporation
General Information

Directors

Wang Chao

Low Chin Guan

Zhang Fuwei

Sun Huifeng

Saw Mei Ling

Chua Yeong Lin

Company secretary

Yang Bin

Registered offices

Singapore
60 Paya Lebar Road
#08-10
Paya Lebar Square
Singapore 409051
Malaysia
Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia

Principal place of business

No. 3 North Wolong Road
Yantai City
Shandong Province
The PRC

Bankers

China Construction Bank
Bank of China
China Merchants Bank
Overseas Chinese Banking Corporation

Auditors

UHY Lee Seng Chan & CO
6001 Beach Road, #14-01 Golden Mile Tower, Singapore 199589

                                                                                                       Annual Report 2021 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   52
                                     China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
                                               and its subsidiary corporation

Index                                                                    Page
Directors' Statement                                                        54
Statutory Declaration                                                       58
Independent Auditor's Report                                                59
Statements of Financial Position                                            67
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income     68
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity                                 69
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                                        70
Notes to the Financial Statements                                           71

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2021

   53
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

The directors are pleased to present their statement to the members together with the audited
consolidated financial statements of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the Company) and its
subsidiaries (the Group) for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 and the statement of financial
position of the Company as at 31 December 2021.
Opinion of the directors
In the opinion of the directors,
(a) the statement of financial position of the Company and consolidated financial statements of the

       Group are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company
       and of the Group as at 31 December 2021, and the financial performance, changes in equity and
       cash flows of the Group for the year ended on that date; and
(b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be
       able to pay its debts as and when they fall due with the continuing financial support from a
       director and shareholder of the Company.
Directors
The directors of the Company in office at the date of this statement are:

Arrangements to enable directors to acquire shares or debentures
Neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year was the Company a party to any
arrangement whose object was to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
Directors’ interests in shares or debentures
According to the register of directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under section 164 of the
Singapore Companies Act 1967 (the Act), none of the directors holding office at the end of the financial
year had any interest in the shares or debentures of the Company or its related corporations, except as
follows:

                                                                                                                       54
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Directors’ interests in shares or debentures (continued)

Name of director and companies        Shareholdings registered          Other shareholdings in
in which interests are held                 in the name of                 which director is

                                       director and/or spouse        deemed to have an interest
                                At beginning of At end of       At beginning of At end of
                                 financial year financial year   financial year financial year

The Company                     -                         -     182,400,000* 182,400,000*
China Ouhua Winery
 Holdings Limited
(Ordinary shares)
Wang Chao

The Subsidiary                  -                         -     180,000*  180,000*
Yantai Fazenda Ouhua
 Winery Co. Ltd.
(Ordinary shares)
Wang Chao

* The deemed interests of Wang Chao in the shares of the Company and its subsidiary arise from his
   shareholding interest in Hua Xin International Holdings Limited by virtue of Section 7(4) of the
   Singapore Companies Act.

Share options

There were no share options granted during the financial year to subscribe for unissued shares of the
Company or its subsidiaries.

There were no shares issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of options to take up
unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries.

There were no unissued shares of the Company or its subsidiaries under option at the end of the
financial year.

Audit committee

The members of the Audit Committee (“AC”) at the date of this statement are:

Sun Huifeng - Chairman
Zhang Fuwei - Member
Saw Mei Ling - Member
Chua Yeong Lin - Member

55
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Audit committee (continued)

The Audit Committee performs its functions in accordance with Section 201B(5) of the Singapore
Companies Act, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and
the Code of Corporate Governance.

The primary duties and responsibilities of the AC are as follows:

(i) To review audit plans of the internal and external auditors of the Company, and review the
        internal auditors’ evaluation of the adequacy of the Company’s system of internal accounting
        controls and the assistance given by the Company’s management to the external and internal
        auditors;

(ii) To review quarterly and annual financial statements and the auditor’s report on the annual
        financial statements of the Company before their submission to the Board;

(iii) To review the effectiveness of the Company’s material internal controls, including financial,
        operational and compliance controls and risk management via reviews carried out by the internal
        auditors;

(iv) To meet with the external auditors, other committees, and management in separate executive
        sessions to discuss any matters that these groups believe should be discussed privately with the
        AC;

(v) To review legal and regulatory matters that may have a material impact on the financial
        statements, related compliance policies and programmes and any reports received from
        regulators;

(vi) To review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors;

(vii) To recommend to the Board the nomination of external auditors, approve the compensation of
        the external auditor and review the scope and results of the audit;

(viii) To report actions and meeting minutes of the AC to the Board with such recommendations as the
        AC considers appropriate; and

(ix) To review interested person transactions.

The AC is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference. The AC
has unlimited access to both internal auditors and external auditors as well as all employees of the
Group. The AC shall also have the authority to obtain independent legal or other professional advice
and to secure attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this
necessary.

The AC held 4 meetings during the financial year. The AC also met with the external auditors, without
the presence of the Company’s management, at least once a year.

                                                                                                                       56
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Directors’ Statement
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Further details regarding the AC are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement in the Annual
Report of the Company.
Independent auditor
The independent auditor, UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co, has expressed its willingness to accept re-
appointment.

On behalf of the Board of Directors,

Wang Chao      Zhang Fuwei
Director       Director

29 April 2022

57
Statutory declaration
Pursuant to Paragraph 9.27 of the Main Market Listing Manual Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
I, Mr Wang Chao, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of China Ouhua
Winery Holdings Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial
statements are in my opinion correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true and by virtue of the prevailing laws governing declarations for oaths in China.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above mentioned
At Yantai, China on
This day of 29 April 2022
Wang Chao
Before me
Zhi Fu Notary Public Office Yantai City

                                                                                                                       58
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

Qualified Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited (the Company) and
its subsidiaries (the Group) which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position of the
Group and the statement of financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and the
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of
changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows of the Group for the year then ended, and
notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion
section of our report, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the
statement of financial position of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions
of the Companies Act 1967 (the Act) and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International)
(SFRS(I)s) which are simultaneously compliant with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) so as to give a true and fair
view of the consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the Company as at
31 December 2021 and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and
consolidated cash flows of the Group for the year ended on that date.

Basis for Qualified Opinion

As disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements, included in trade and other receivables are deposits
of RMB118,800,000 representing 90% of the total purchase price of RMB132,000,000 which the
Group had paid to Huangwu Subdistrict Office, Zhifu District, Yantai City (the Local Government)
under a sale and purchase agreement (the SPA) entered into between the Group and the Local
Government on 17 December 2013 for the purchase by the Group of the Assets as described in Note 5
(the Transaction). Pursuant to the SPA, in the event that the Transaction is not completed, the Local
Government will refund the deposits of RMB118,800,000 to the Group. As at the date of this report,
the procedures in relation to the Transaction are pending completion.

We have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to satisfy ourselves with respect
to the extent of recoverability and valuation of the deposits of RMB118,800,000 in the event that the
Transaction is not completed. Consequently, we are unable to determine whether any adjustments to
the carrying amount of the deposits as at 31 December 2021 are necessary. Our audit opinion on the
financial statements for the previous financial year was qualified due to the same reason.

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance
with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and
Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code) together with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our qualified opinion.

59
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern

We draw attention to Note 1.2 to the consolidated financial statements and Notes 5 and 8 to the Parent
Company financial statements, in which full impairment were made to amount due from Yantai
Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd (subsidiary) and investment in the subsidiary amounting to
RMB76,272,000 and RMB60,135,000 respectively. The impairments were made due to the subsidiary
continuous business losses due to loss of major market. In addition, the discounted cash flow shows
negative losses. These conditions indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast
significant doubt about the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The ability
of the Group and Company to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the continuing financial
support from a director and shareholder of the Company. Our opinion is not further qualified in respect
of this matter.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in
our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context
of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not
provide a separate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matters described in the Basis for
Qualified Opinion section and Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section, we have
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.

Key Audit Matters                                   Audit Responses
(1) Valuation of trade receivables (RMB14.240

    million)
    Refer to Note 5 to the financial statements

The Group has significant trade receivables         We had reviewed the Group’s estimation process
amounting to the RMB14.240 million. In              used in determining the amounts of loss
accordance with SFRS(I) 9 Financial                 allowance recognised on expected credit losses on
Instruments, the Group is required to recognise     trade receivables.
loss allowances on expected credit losses on trade
receivables. The determination of the loss          The Group has a process to assess credit risk and
allowances requires significant estimates to        to determine the amounts of loss allowance to
determine whether the receivable is credit          recognise on expected credit losses on trade
impaired, and the best estimate of the ultimate     receivables.
realisation of the amounts receivable from
customers.                                          We had also reviewed significant inputs to
                                                    management’s assessment of the amounts of loss
Inappropriate estimates made in the impairment      allowance recognised on expected credit losses,
assessment would result in a significant impact     and considered the reasonableness of the inputs
on the carrying amount of the trade receivables.    by reference to the recent credit review
                                                    assessments prepared by management.

                                                                                    60
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Disclosure on the above significant                   The judgements applied by management around
management’s estimate is provided in Note 3.2(a)      the recovery of receivables were relevant under
to the financial statements and further               the facts and circumstances currently made
information related to the aged trade receivables     available to the Group.
is in Note 22(a) to the financial statements.
                                                      Lastly, we assessed the adequacy of disclosures
                                                      in describing the areas of judgement and
                                                      estimation uncertainties involving recoverability
                                                      of the trade receivables.

                                                      We considered the disclosures in describing the
                                                      areas of judgement and inherent degree of
                                                      estimation uncertainties involved to be
                                                      appropriate.

(2) Valuation of inventories (RMB90.401
     million)
    Refer to Note 6 to the financial statements

The Group’s work-in-progress inventories              Our audit procedures to validate the valuation of
amounting to RMB84.673 million represent 94%          the inventories included performance of test of
of the total inventories. These inventories relate    details on actual margins and valuation of
mainly to the direct costs incurred for wine          obsolete inventories. We assessed whether there
production.                                           were inventories which were sold with negative
                                                      margin by evaluating sales invoices issued
Management has estimated the net realisable           subsequent to year end to validate management’s
value of the work-in-progress inventories based       assessment and decision as to whether
on certain assumptions relating to spoilage and       inventories need be adjusted to their net
obsolescence. Obsolescence considerations             realisable values.
include inventory aging profile, as well as
different market factors impacting the sale of        Based on the work performed, we found
these product lines.                                  management’s estimates to be reasonable.

Inappropriate estimate made in estimating the         We also assessed the disclosures in the financial
conditions and estimated selling price would          statements to be adequate.
result in a significant impact on the net realisable
value of the work-in-progress inventories.

Disclosure on the above significant estimate is
made in Note 3.2(b) to the financial statements
and further information related to the write-down
of the inventories to its net realisable values is
disclosed under Note 6 to the financial
statements.

61
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

(3) Impairment of property, plant and
    equipment (RMB29.505 million)
    Refer to Note 9 to the financial statements

As at 31 December 2021, property, plant and        Our audit procedures focused on evaluating the
equipment with carrying amounts of RMB29.505       appropriateness and adequacy of the impairment
million constituted approximately 15% of the       loss recognised for property, plant and equipment.
total assets of the Group.
                                                   Based on our work performed, we assessed
During the current financial year, the Group       management’s key assumptions and review
carried out a review of the recoverable amount of  process to be reasonable.
its property, plant and equipment.
                                                   We also considered the disclosures in the financial
The review process involves significant            statements to be adequate.
judgement in determining the appropriate
valuation methods to be used, and in estimating
the key underlying assumptions to be applied.

These critical judgements are disclosed in Note
3.1(b) to the financial statements.

                                                                                    62
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

(4) Allowance for impairment for non-trade
    amount due from Yantai Fazenda Ouhua
    Winery Co. Ltd (subsidiary) (RMB76.272
    million) and impairment of investment in
    the subsidiary (RMB60.135 million)
    Refer to Notes 5 and 8 to the financial
    statements

As at 31 December 2021, the Company has            We evaluated the reasonableness of the estimates
investment in the subsidiary with carrying         and assumptions in the discounted cash flow
amount of RMB60.135 million. During the            model.
current financial year, there are impairment
indicators which require the Group to perform an   Based on our audit procedures, we found the
assessment on the recoverable amount of the        significant estimates and key assumption within
investment in the subsidiary using a discounted    the discounted cash flow model to be reasonable.
cash flow model for the next five years.
                                                   We also assessed the disclosures in the financial
Based on the result of the assessment, the         statements to be adequate.
Company has fully impaired the investment in the
subsidiary. Furthermore, the Company has
amount owing from the subsidiary amounting to
RMB76.272 million. The management has
assessed the future operating and financial
performance of the subsidiary to be unfavourable.
As a result, management has fully impaired on
the amount due from the subsidiary.

63
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon

Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our independent auditor’s report
thereon, which we obtained prior to the date of this report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. As described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section
above, we were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence on the recoverability of the Group’s
deposits paid to the Local Government. Accordingly, we are unable to conclude whether the other
information is materially misstated with respect to this matter.

Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in
accordance with the provisions of the Act, SFRS(I)s which are simultaneously compliant with IFRSs
issued by the IASB, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient
to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or
disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit
the preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets.

In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the
basis of these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

                                                                                                                       64
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
    fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
    evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
    detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
    fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
    internal control.

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
    that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
    effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
    estimates and related disclosures made by management.

• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
    based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
    conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If
    we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
    report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
    modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
    auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as
    a going concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
    disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
    a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
    business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
    We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
    solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

65
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

Other Reporting Responsibilities
The supplementary information set out in Note 26 to the financial statements is disclosed to meet the
requirement of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and is not part of the financial statements. The
directors are responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with
Guidance on Special Matter No. 1, Determination of Realised and Unrealised Profits or Losses in the
Context of Disclosure Pursuant to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Listing Requirements, as issued by
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA Guidance”) and the directive of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. In our opinion, the supplementary information is prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the MIA Guidance and the directive of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company have
been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Tang Boon Sun.

UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
29 April 2022

                                                                                                                       66
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Statements of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2021

The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
67
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                                       68
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
69
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                                       70
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

These notes form an integral part of and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial
statements.

1. General
      1.1 Corporate information
              The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Singapore with its
              registered office at 60 Paya Lebar Road, #08-10, Paya Lebar Square Singapore 409051.
              The address of the principal place of business of the Group is No.3 North Wolong Road,
              Yantai City, Shang Dong Province, People’s Republic of China (PRC).

              The Company also has a registered office in Malaysia. The registered office address is at
              Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No.8
              Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia. The Company is
              listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Securities).

              The principal activity of the Company is that of investment holding. The principal
              activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements. There have
              been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

              The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were authorised
              for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2022.

      1.2 Going concern
              The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The assessment is
              based on estimated expectations of future cash flows.

              The Company had made full impairment to amount due from Yantai Fazenda Ouhua
              Winery Co. Ltd (subsidiary) and investment in the subsidiary amounting to
              RMB76,272,000 and RMB60,135,000 respectively. The impairments were made due to the
              subsidiary continuous business losses due to loss of major market. In addition, the
              discounted cash flow shows negative losses. These conditions indicate the existence of a
              material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Group’s and Company’s
              ability to continue as a going concern. The Group's director and shareholder had confirmed
              that he will provide continuous financial support to the Group and Company to enable it to
              continue its obligation as and when they fall due.

71
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies

      2.1 Basis of preparation

              These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
              Singapore Companies Act (the Act), Singapore Financial Reporting Standards
              (International) (SFRS(I)s) which are simultaneously compliant with the International
              Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards
              Board (IASB).

              The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as
              disclosed in the accounting policies below.

              The Group’s principal operations are conducted in People’s Republic of China (PRC) and
              hence the financial statements are presented in Chinese renminbi (RMB), being the
              functional and presentation currency of the Company and the Group respectively. All
              financial information is presented in RMB rounded to the nearest thousand (RMB’000)
              unless otherwise stated.

              Adoption of new and amended to standards and interpretations

              The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year
              except that in the current financial year, the Group has adopted all the new and revised
              SFRS(I)s and Interpretations of SFRS(I)s (INT SFRS(I)s) that are relevant to its operations
              and effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2021. The adoption of these
              new/revised SFRS(I)s and INT SFRS(I)s does not result in changes to the Group’s
              accounting policies and has no material effect on the amounts reported for the current or
              prior financial years.

      2.2 Foreign currency transactions and balances

              (a) Functional and presentation currency

                      Items included in the financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured
                      using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates
                      (functional currency). The financial statements of the Company and the Group are
                      presented in RMB, which is also the functional currency of the Company.

              (b) Transactions and balances

                      Transactions in a currency other than the functional currency (foreign currency) are
                      translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the
                      transactions. Currency translation differences arising from the settlement of such
                      transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated
                      in foreign currencies at the closing rates at the end of the reporting period are
                      recognised in profit or loss. Non-monetary items are not retranslated at the end of the
                      reporting period and are measured at historical cost (translated using the exchange
                      rates at transaction date), except for non-monetary items measured at fair value which
                      are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.

                                                                                                                       72
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.3 Basis of consolidation

              (a) Business combinations

                      Business combinations are accounted using the acquisition method as at the
                      acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. The
                      consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at
                      the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity
                      instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
                      Consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration
                      given.

                      The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-
                      controlling interests at fair value, or at their proportionate share of the recognised
                      amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree, at the acquisition date.
                      Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity
                      securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are
                      expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the
                      acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the
                      acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date through profit or loss.

                      Non-controlling interests are that part of the net results of operations and of net assets
                      of a subsidiary attributable to the interests which are not owned directly or indirectly
                      by the equity holders of the Company. They are shown separately in the consolidated
                      statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in
                      equity and statement of financial position. Total comprehensive income is attributed
                      to the non-controlling interest based on their respective interests in a subsidiary, even
                      if the subsidiary incurred losses and the losses allocated exceed the non-controlling
                      interest in the subsidiary’s equity.

                      Consolidation of the subsidiary in the PRC is based on the subsidiary’s financial
                      statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and IAS. Profits reflected in the
                      financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and IAS may differ from
                      those reflected in the PRC statutory financial statements of the subsidiary, prepared
                      for PRC reporting purposes. In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations,
                      profits available for distribution by the PRC subsidiary are based on the amounts
                      stated in the PRC statutory financial statements.

              (b) Subsidiary

                      Subsidiary is entity over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity
                      when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement
                      with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the
                      entity. Subsidiary is consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the
                      Group. Subsidiary is deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.

73
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.3 Basis of consolidation (continued)

              (b) Subsidiary (continued)

                      Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses
                      arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
                      financial statements.

                      Investment in subsidiaries is stated in the Company’s statements of financial position
                      at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

              (c) Transaction eliminated on consolidation

                      Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses
                      arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
                      financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised
                      gains, but only to the extent there is no evidence of impairment.

      2.4 Financial instruments

              (a) Financial assets

                      Initial recognition and measurement

                      Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the entity becomes party to the
                      contractual provisions of the instruments.

                      At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in
                      the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL),
                      transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
                      Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.

                      Trade receivables are measured at the amount of consideration to which the
                      Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services
                      to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third party, if the trade
                      receivables do not contain a significant financing component at initial recognition.

                      Subsequent measurement

                      Investments in debt instruments

                      Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business
                      model for managing the asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of
                      the asset. The three measurement categories for classification of debt instruments are
                      amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and FVPL.
                      The Group has debt instruments at amortised cost and FVPL.

                                                                                                                       74
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.4 Financial instruments (continued)

             (a) Financial assets (continued)

                      Subsequent measurement (continued)

                      Investment in equity instruments

                      Financial assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those
                      cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at
                      amortised cost. Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective
                      interest method, less impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
                      when the assets are derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process.

                      On initial recognition of an investment in equity instrument that is not held for
                      trading, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value
                      in other comprehensive income which will not be reclassified subsequently to profit
                      or loss. Dividends from such investments are to be recognised in profit or loss when
                      the Group’s right to receive payments is established. For investments in equity
                      instruments which the Group has not elected to present subsequent changes in fair
                      value in other comprehensive income, changes in fair value are recognised in profit
                      or loss.

                      Derecognition

                      A financial asset is derecognised where the contractual right to receive cash flows
                      from the asset has expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the
                      difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received
                      and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive
                      income for debt instruments is recognised in profit or loss.

             (b) Financial liabilities

                      Initial recognition and measurement

                      Financial liabilities are recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party
                      to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. The Group determines the
                      classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.

                      All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus in the case of
                      financial liabilities not at FVPL, directly.

75
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.4 Financial instruments (continued)

             (b) Financial liabilities (continued)

                      Subsequent measurement

                      After initial recognition, financial liabilities that are not carried at FVPL are
                      subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains
                      and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised, and
                      through the amortisation process.

                      Derecognition

                      A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is
                      discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition, the difference between the
                      carrying amounts and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.

      2.5 Impairment of financial assets

             The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for all debt
             instruments not held at FVPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual
             cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects
             to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The
             expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit
             enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.

             ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a
             significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit
             losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12 months (a 12-
             month ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in
             credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is recognised for credit losses expected
             over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).

             For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
             Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss
             allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a
             provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-
             looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment which could affect the
             debtors’ ability to pay.

             The Group considers a financial asset in default when contractual payments are 60 days past
             due. However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to be in
             default when internal or external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive
             the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit
             enhancements held by the Group. A financial asset is written off when there is no
             reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.

                                                                                                                       76
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

    2.5 Impairment of financial assets (continued)

    For other receivables, credit loss allowance is based on 12-month expected credit loss if
    there is no significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the assets. If there is
    a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, lifetime expected credit loss
    will be calculated and recognised.

    2.6 Cash and cash equivalents

    Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and cash on hand which are subject to an
    insignificant risk of changes in value.

    2.7 Property, plant and equipment

    All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Subsequent to
    recognition, property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and
    equipment includes its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the
    asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner
    intended by management. Dismantlement, removal or restoration costs are included as part
    of the cost of property, plant and equipment if the obligation for dismantlement, removal or
    restoration is incurred as a consequence of acquiring or using the property, plant and
    equipment.

    Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method
    to allocate depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful
    lives are as follows:

                                                                                            Useful lives

    Buildings                                                   20 years
    Plant and machinery                                    5 to 20 years
    Motor vehicles
    Office equipment                                             5 years
    Renovations                                                  5 years
                                                           5 to 10 years

    Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements
    until they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of
    these property, plant and equipment.

    The residual value, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each
    reporting period, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

    An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
    economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on derecognition
    of the asset is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.

77
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets

              The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may
              be impaired. If any indication exists, (or, where applicable, when an annual impairment
              testing for an asset is required), the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable
              amount.

              An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair
              value less costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset,
              unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from
              other assets or group of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating
              unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to
              its recoverable amount.

              Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.

              A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the
              estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
              was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its
              recoverable amount. That increase cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have
              been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised previously.
              Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.

      2.9 Inventories

              Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred in
              bringing the inventories to their present location and condition is accounted for as follows:

              Raw materials- purchase cost on a weighted average basis.

              Finished goods and work-in-progress - cost of direct materials, direct labour and a
              proportion of production overheads based on normal operating capacity (excluding
              borrowing costs). These costs are assigned on a weighted average basis.

              Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less
              estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

      2.10 Provisions

              Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive)
              as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
              benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be
              estimated reliably.

                                                                                                                       78
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.10 Provisions (continued)

              Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the
              current best estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will
              be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value
              of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects,
              where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase
              in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.

      2.11 Taxes

              (a) Current income tax

                      Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are
                      measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
                      authority. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are
                      enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.

                      Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax
                      relates to items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive
                      income or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in
                      the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are
                      subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

              (b) Deferred tax

                      Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the
                      end of the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
                      carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.

                      Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except:

                      - Where the deferred tax liability arises from an asset or liability in a transaction
                           that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects
                           neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and

                      - In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in
                           subsidiaries and associate, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary
                           differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences
                           will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

                      Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry
                      forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable
                      that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
                      differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be
                      utilised except:

79
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.11 Taxes (continued)

              (b) Deferred tax (continued)

                      - Where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference
                           arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is
                           not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the
                           accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and

                      - In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in
                           subsidiaries and associate, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent
                           that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable
                           future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
                           differences can be utilised.

                      The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting
                      period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable
                      profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
                      Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period
                      and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit
                      will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.

                      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to
                      apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates
                      (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of each
                      reporting period.

                      Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside
                      profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying
                      transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred
                      tax arising from a business combination is adjusted against goodwill on acquisition.

                      Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right
                      exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the
                      deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.

              (c) Value added tax (VAT)

                      Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of VAT except:

                      • where the VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable
                            from the taxation authority, in which case the VAT is recognised as part of the
                            cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and

                      • receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of VAT included.

                                                                                                                       80
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.11 Taxes (continued)

              (c) Value added tax (VAT)

                      The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is
                      included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of financial position.

      2.12 Share capital

              Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares are recognised as share capital in equity.
              Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares are deducted
              against share capital.

      2.13 Revenue recognition

              Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
              in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts
              collected on behalf of third parties.

              Revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a
              promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains control of
              the good or service. A performance obligation may be satisfied at a point in time or over
              time. The amount of revenue recognised is the amount allocated to the satisfied
              performance obligation.

              Revenue from trading of red wines

              The Group sold red wine imported from overseas markets to its customers. Contract is
              identified with customer confirms with reference to the sales contract signed by both parties.
              Upon receipt of acknowledged delivery orders from customer, the person in charge of
              invoicing customer will generate sales invoice with reference to the per price list stipulated
              in the sales contract and delivery order documents for items sold.

              Revenue is recognised when the goods have been transferred to the customer in accordance
              with the acknowledged delivery order (i.e. at a point in time).

      2.14 Employee benefits

              (a) Employee leave entitlements

                      Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised as a liability when they accrue
                      to employees. The estimated liability for annual leave is recognised for services
                      rendered by employees up to the end of the reporting period.

81
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)

      2.14 Employee benefits (continued)

              (b) Pension obligations

                      The Group participates in the defined contribution national pension and other welfare
                      schemes as provided by the laws of the countries in which has operations.

                      Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in the same financial year
                      as the employment that gives rise to the contributions.

                      Pursuant to the relevant regulations in the People’s Republic of China, a subsidiary of
                      the Company in the People’s Republic of China participates in a local municipal
                      government retirement benefits scheme (the Scheme), whereby the subsidiary is
                      required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries of its employees to the
                      Scheme to fund their retirement benefits.

                      The local municipal government undertakes to assume the retirement benefits
                      obligations of all existing and future retired employees of the subsidiary. The only
                      obligation of the subsidiary with respect to the Scheme is to pay the ongoing required
                      contributions under the Scheme mentioned above. Contributions under the Scheme
                      are charged to profit or loss as incurred. There are no provisions under the Scheme
                      whereby forfeited contributions may be used to reduce future contributions.

      2.15 Segment reporting

              An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business
              activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses (including revenue and
              expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating
              results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make
              decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for
              which discrete financial information is available.

3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates

      The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements,
      estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and
      liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the end of each reporting period.
      Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material
      adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in the future periods.

      3.1 Judgements made in applying accounting policies

              In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described in Note 2,
              management has made the following judgements apart from those involving estimates,
              which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
              statements:

                                                                                                                       82
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates (continued)

      3.1 Judgements made in applying accounting policies (continued)

              (a) Withholding taxes arising from PRC subsidiary’s undistributed earnings

                      The Group’s determination as to whether to recognise deferred tax for withholding
                      taxes that would be payable on the undistributed earnings of the subsidiary, that are
                      subject to withholding taxes according to the relevant tax jurisdiction, is subject to
                      judgement on the timing of the dividend payment.

                      In 2021, the Group considered that it is not probable that the subsidiary will distribute
                      such earnings in the foreseeable future due to its continuing operating losses and
                      accumulated losses as at 31 December 2021.

              (b) Impairment of property, plant and equipment

                      The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for property,
                      plant and equipment in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2.8.

                      As disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements, the Group conducted a review of
                      the recoverable amount of its property, plant and equipment.

                      The Group estimate the valuation on property, plant and equipment. The Group
                      adopted the replacement cost method to value these property, plant and equipment.
                      The valuation which involves significant estimation, is based on the estimates of the
                      gross replacement costs of the property, plant and equipment. The Group also noted
                      there are no significant changes to the prior year estimation.

      3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty

              The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty
              at the end of the reporting period are discussed below. The Group based its assumptions
              and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared.
              Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change
              due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group. Such
              changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.

              (a) Provision for expected credit losses (ECLs) of trade receivables

                      The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables. The
                      provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer
                      segments that have similar loss patterns.

                      The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default
                      rates. The Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust historical credit loss experience
                      with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, historical default rates
                      are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.

83
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates (continued)

      3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

              (a) Provision for expected credit losses (ECLs) of trade receivables (continued)

                      The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast
                      economic conditions and ECLs is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is
                      sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The
                      Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
                      also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future. The information
                      about the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables is disclosed in Note 22(a).

                      The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December 2021 is
                      RMB786,000 (2020 : RMB2,664,000).

              (b) Inventory valuation method

                      Inventory write-down is made based on the current market conditions, historical
                      experience and selling goods of similar nature. It could change significantly as a result
                      of changes in market conditions. A review is made periodically on inventories for
                      excess inventories, obsolescence and declines in net realisable value and an allowance
                      is recorded against the inventory balances for any such declines. The realisable value
                      represents the best estimate of the recoverable amount and is based on the most reliable
                      evidence available and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected
                      realisable value. The carrying amount of the Group’s inventories as at 31 December
                      2021 is RMB21,124,000 (2020 : RMB16,272,000). If the future expected realisable
                      value lower by 10% of its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the Group’s
                      inventory would have been RMB2,112,000 (2020 : RMB1,627,000) lower.

              (c) Impairment on amount due from and investment in Yantai Fazenda Ouhua
                      Winery Co. Ltd. (subsidiary)

                      At the end of each financial year, an assessment is made on whether there is objective
                      evidence that the investment in the subsidiary and amount due from the subsidiary
                      are impaired. This assessment requires significant estimation and judgement. The
                      Company evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair
                      value of an investment is less than its cost and the financial health and near-term
                      business outlook of the investment, including factors such as industry performance,
                      changes in technology and operational and financing cash flows.

                      The carrying amounts of the Company’s amount due from the subsidiary and
                      investment in the subsidiary as at 31 December 2021 and 2020 are disclosed in Notes 5
                      and 8 to the financial statements respectively.

                                                                                                                       84
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates (continued)

      3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
              (d) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
                      Management estimates the useful lives of property, plant and equipment to be within
                      5 to 20 years. These are common life expectancies applied in the relevant industry.
                      The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment is disclosed in
                      Note 9 to the financial statements. Changes in the expected level of usage and
                      technological development could impact the economic useful lives and the residual
                      values of these assets. Hence, future depreciation charges could be revised.

4. Cash and cash equivalents

85
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
5. Trade and other receivables

      Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the average credit period is between 30 to 90 days
      (2020 : 30 to 90 days).
      Allowance for impairment on trade receivables is determined based on management’s assessment
      of collectability and by reference to past default experience.
      There is no other class of financial asset that is past due and/or impaired except for trade
      receivables.

                                                                                                                       86
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

5. Trade and other receivables (continued)
      Expected credit losses
      The movements in allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables computed based on
      lifetime ECL was as follows:

    Non-trade amount due from subsidiary is unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. This
    amount is fully impaired in 2021 and 2020.

    *Refundable deposits

    On 17 December 2013, the Group entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA) with
    Huangwu Subdistrict Office, Zhifu District, Yantai City, PRC (Local Government) to acquire all
    the land, buildings and ancillary facilities including 320KVA power distribution equipment, water
    supply system, roads surrounding the factory and enclosing wall (collectively the Assets) located
    at No. 3 Wolong North Road, Yantai City which the Group has been leasing since 1997, for a total
    cash consideration of RMB132,000,000. The building has a gross floor area measuring
    approximately 12,600 square meters and the land has an area of 40 Mu (approximately 6.589
    acres). Pursuant to the SPA, the Group had made a down payment of RMB118,800,000 which
    amount was recorded as a refundable deposit.

    The salient terms of the acquisition as set out in the SPA are as follows:

    •  The transfer cost, transfer ownership fee and all relevant taxes and other expenses, etc

       would be borne by the Local Government.

    •  The Group agreed to pay 60% of the total consideration within 5 days from the date of SPA

       (“First Payment”) and at the same time, the Local Government agreed to cease all

       rental/lease charges to the Group. Subsequently, 30% of the total consideration (“Second

       Payment”) is to be paid by 30 December 2013 and the remaining 10% to be settled upon

       completion of the transfer procedures.

    •  The Local Government was required to complete the transfer procedures within four

       months of the Second Payment.

87
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

5. Trade and other receivables (continued)

•  Any liabilities incurred before 31 December 2013 would be borne by the Local

   Government.

•  The Local Government confirmed that the Assets are free from other encumbrances.

In relation to the acquisition of the Assets as described above, the directors are of the view that:

(i) The Assets are acquired for use as production facilities and office;

(ii) The transfer procedures will include a transfer of land use rights of up to 50 years from the
        date of acquisition and a further option for renewal upon expiry of 50 years of industrial
        and/or commercial land;

(iii) Having considered that the land use rights [as referred to in (ii) above] are not yet
        established as of the report date, the cost of obtaining an independent professional valuation
        of the Assets will outweigh its benefits.

(iv) In the event that the transaction is not completed, the deposits of RMB118,800,000 will be
        refunded to the Group.

(v) In the directors’ own assessment, the total purchase consideration is based on the prevailing
        market value of the Assets at the time of acquisition and the fair value of the Assets
        acquired equals to or exceeds the acquisition cost as at the report date.

6. Inventories

                                                                                     88
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

7. Financial asset, at FVPL

      The fair value of the financial asset, at FVPL in 2020 is based on actual amount settled with the
      bank.
8. Investment in subsidiaries

    Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                           Country of            Percentage of
                          incorporation/
    Name of subsidiaries                         equity held     Principal activities
                             place of
                           operation

                                                 2021  2020

                                                 %            %

    Yantai Fazenda Ouhua  People’s                               Production of varieties of
    Winery Co. Ltd.(1)    Republic
                          of China                               wine and sales of its

                                                 95           95 self-produced wines

    Recap Resources Sdn.  Malaysia               100   100 Dormant
    Bhd.(2)

    (1) Audited by UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the

        consolidated financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
    (2) No statutory audit required, reviewed for group consolidation purposes.

89
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
8. Investment in subsidiaries (continued)

      Impairment testing of investment in Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd.
      Management performed an assessment on the recoverable amount of the investment in Yantai
      Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd. using a discounted cash flow model based on cash flow
      projections derived from financial budgets prepared by management for the years ending 31
      December 2022 to 2026. A pre-tax discount rate of 14.81% was used in discounting the projected
      cash flows. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and
      its operating segments and derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC). In 2021,
      the cost of investment in Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd. is fully impaired.

                                                                                                                       90
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
9. Property, plant and equipment

      Group
      2021

91
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
9. Property, plant and equipment (continued)

      Group
      2020

                                                                                                                                                                                              92
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

9. Property, plant and equipment (continued)

Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment

During the current financial year, the Group carried out a review and estimated the recoverable
amount of its property, plant and equipment based on fair values less costs of disposal. The
valuation method used is that of the replacement cost approach.

Key assumption used                                       50% to 60%
Property, plant and equipment
- residual rate

The key assumptions include consideration of technical obsolescence and physical deterioration of
the property, plant and equipment.

10. Trade and other payables

     Non-trade amounts due to directors are unsecured, interest-free and repayable in cash on demand.
93
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

11. Share capital

        The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
        Company. All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and have no par
        value.

12. Other reserves
        (a) Statutory reserve
                 The Group follows the accounting principles and relevant financial regulations of the
                 People’s Republic of China (PRC) in the preparation of the accounting records and
                 statutory financial statements of the PRC subsidiary.
                 In accordance with the Foreign Enterprise Law applicable to the subsidiary in the PRC,
                 the subsidiary is required to make appropriation to a Statutory Reserve Fund (SRF). At
                 least 10% of the statutory after tax profits as determined in accordance with the
                 applicable PRC accounting standards and regulations must be allocated to the SRF until
                 the cumulative total of the SRF reaches 50% of the subsidiary’s registered capital.
                 Subject to approval from the relevant PRC authorities, the SRF may be used to increase
                 the registered capital of the subsidiary. The SRF is not available for dividend distribution
                 to shareholders.
        (b) Capital reserve
                 The capital reserve relates to the purchase consideration payable for the acquisition of the
                 PRC subsidiary which was waived by the major shareholder of the subsidiary.

                                                                                                                       94
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
13. Revenue

        Revenue is recognised at a point in time.
14. Other income

15. Employee benefits expense

95
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
16. Loss before tax

        Loss before tax has been arrived at after charging:

17. Income tax expense
        There is no income tax expense as the Group has no taxable income for the current and previous
        financial years.
        Relationship between tax expense and accounting profit
        A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the
        applicable corporate tax rate for the financial years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 were as
        follows:

                                                                                                                       96
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
18. Loss per share

        The basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the owners of the Company is computed
        as follows:

        Diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share as the Company does not have potential
        dilutive shares for both the financial years.
19. Related party transactions
        In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
        following significant transactions between the Group and related parties took place at terms
        agreed between the parties during the financial year:

97
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
19. Related party transactions (continued)

        The remuneration of key management personnel is determined by the board of directors having
        regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
20. Capital commitments
        Capital expenditure contracted for as at the end of the reporting period but not recognised in the
        financial statements are as follows:

21. Segment information
        For management purposes, the Group has one main business segment:
        Red wine
        The Red wine segment relates to the business producing red wine from Cabernet Sauvignon,
        Pinot Noir, Shiraz, Merlot grape varietals, grown on Yantai Fazenda Ouhua’s vineyards, as well
        as wines purchased for production.

                                                                                                                       98
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

21. Segment information (continued)
        The segment information provided to management for the reportable segments is as follows:

        Property, plant and equipment of the Group are utilised interchangeably between the different
        segments and there is no reasonable basis to allocate other assets and liabilities of the Group
        between the different segments. Accordingly, segmental information on assets and liabilities of
        the Group are not disclosed.
        Segment accounting policies are the same as the policies of the Group as described in Note 2.
        (a) Geographical information

                Segmented information by geographical region is not applicable for the financial years
                ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 as the business operations of the Group is only carried
                out in the PRC.
        (b) Information about major customers
                Revenue from top 5 (2020 : 6) major customers for the financial year ended 31 December
                2021 amounted to RMB13,395,000 (2020 : RMB17,499,000) and accounted for 85%
                (2020 : 85%) of the Group’s revenue.

99
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

22. Financial risk management
        The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks from its operations. The key
        financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including interest rate risk and
        foreign currency risk).
        The directors review and agree policies and procedures for the management of these risks, which
        are executed by the management team. It is, and has been throughout the current and previous
        financial year, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes shall be
        undertaken.
        The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to the abovementioned
        financial risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
        There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
        which it manages and measures the risks.
        (a) Credit risk
                 Credit risk is the potential risk of financial loss resulting from the failure of a customer or
                 counterparty to settle its financial and contractual obligations to the Group as and when
                 they fall due.
                 Management has a credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
                 ongoing basis.
                 The Group manages credit risk through vigilant follow up of receivables.
                 At the end of the reporting period, approximately 79% (2020 : 73%) of the Group’s trade
                 receivables were due from 4 (2020 : 4) major customers located in the PRC. The
                 maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial
                 asset in the statements of financial position. Cash is placed with banks that are regulated.
                 The Group uses the following categories of internal credit risk rating for financial assets
                 which are subject to expected credit losses under the 3-stage general approach. These
                 four categories reflect the respective credit risk and how the loss provision is determined
                 for each of those categories.

                                                                                                                       100
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

22. Financial risk management (continued)

     (a) Credit risk (continued)

     Category of internal         Definition of category                Basis for recognition of
     credit rating                                                      expected credit losses

     Performing                   Borrower or issuer have a low risk    12-month expected
                                  of default and a strong capacity      credit losses
                                  to meet contractual cash flows

     Under-performing             Significant increase in credit risk   Lifetime expected credit
                                  as significant in credit risk is      losses
                                  presumed if interest and/or
                                  principal repayment are 150 days
                                  past due

     Non-performing               Interest and/or principal payment     Lifetime expected credit
                                  are 365 days past due                 losses

     Write-off                    Interest and/or principal repayments  Asset is written off
                                  are 365 days past due and there is
                                  no reasonable expectation of
                                  recovery

     The table below details the credit quality of the Group’s trade receivables, as well as
     maximum exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating categories:

101
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

22. Financial risk management (continued)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in SFRS(I) 9 to
                 measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. The Group determines the ECL by using a
                 provision matrix, estimated based on historical credit loss experience based on the past
                 due status of the debtors, adjusted as appropriate to reflect current conditions and
                 estimates of future economic conditions. Accordingly, the credit risk profile of trade
                 receivables is presented based on their past due status in terms of the provision matrix.

        (b) Liquidity risk
                 Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its
                 short-term obligations due to shortage of funds. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk
                 arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. It is
                 managed by matching the payment and receipt cycles. The Group’s objective is to
                 maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of
                 standby credit facilities.
                 All financial liabilities in 2021 and 2020 are repayable on demand or due within one year
                 from the end of the reporting period.

                                                                                                                       102
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

22. Financial risk management (continued)
        (c) Market risk
                 Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign
                 exchange rates will affect the Group’s income. The objective of market risk management
                 is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while
                 optimising the return on risk.
                 (i) Interest rate risk
                         Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or cash flows of the Group’s
                         financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
                         The Group’s exposure to market rate risks for changes in interest rates relates
                         primarily to its interest-bearing financial liabilities. The Group’s policy is to
                         obtain the most favourable interest rates available.
                         The Group does not have any interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2021
                         and 2020.
                         The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate
                         risks.
                 (ii) Foreign currency risk
                         Foreign currency risk arises from changes in foreign exchange rates that may have
                         an adverse effect on the Group in the current reporting period or in future years.
                         The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk relates mainly to financial assets
                         and financial liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the
                         functional currency of each entity in the Group. The currencies giving rise to this
                         risk are primarily with respect to Singapore dollar (SGD), United States dollar
                         (USD) and Malaysian ringgit (MYR).
                         2021

103
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021
22. Financial risk management (continued)

        (c) Market risk (continued)0.
                 (ii) Foreign currency risk (continued)
                         2020

                         The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is insignificant.
23. Financial instruments by category

        At the reporting date, the aggregate carrying amounts of financial assets at amortised cost and
        financial liabilities at amortised cost were as follows:

                                                                                                                       104
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

24. Fair values of financial instruments
        The Group classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
        significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has the
        following levels:
        (a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
        (b) inputs prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or
                indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) (Level 2); and
        (c) inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable
                inputs) (Level 3).
        Fair value measurements that use inputs of different hierarchy levels are categorised in its
        entirely in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to
        the entire measurement.
        (b) Assets measured at fair value
                 The following table shows an analysis of each class of assets measured at fair value at the
                 reporting date:

105
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

25. Capital management
        The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard the Group’s ability to
        continue as a going concern and to maintain an adequate and efficient capital structure so as to
        maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or achieve an optimal capital structure, the
        Group may issue new shares or obtain additional borrowings.
        No changes were made to the policies or processes of capital management since the previous
        financial year.
        The subsidiary of the Group in the PRC is required to contribute to and maintain a non-
        distributable statutory reserve fund which utilisation is subject to approval by the relevant PRC
        authorities.

26. Supplementary information
        The breakdown of the accumulated losses of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
        2021 into realised and unrealised losses is presented in accordance with the directive issued by
        Bursa Securities dated 25 March 2011 and prepared in accordance with Guidance on Special
        Matter No. 1, Determination of Realised and Unrealised Profits or Losses in the Context of
        Disclosure Pursuant to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Listing Requirements, as issued by the
        Malaysian Institute of Accountants.

                                                                                                                     106
China Ouhua Winery Holdings Limited and its Subsidiaries

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021

27. Standards issued but not yet effective

     As the date of authorisation of these financial statement, the Group has not adopted the
     following standards applicable to the Group that have been issued but not yet effective:

     Description                                                            Effective
                                                                            for annual

                                                                             periods
                                                                            beginning
                                                                            on or after

     Amendments to SFRS(I) 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework          1 January 2022
     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-16 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds    1 January 2022
      before Intended Use                                                   1 January 2022
     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-37 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a    1 January 2022
      Contract                                                              1 January 2023
     Annual Improvements to SFRS(I)s 2018 - 2020                            1 January 2023
     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or  1 January 2023
      Non-current                                                           1 January 2023

     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or
     Non-current
     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-12: Deferred Tax related to Assets and
     Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

     Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-1 and SFRS(I) Practice Statement 2:
     Disclosure of Accounting Policies

     The directors expect that the adoption of the standards above will have no material impact on the
     financial statements in the year of initial application.

28. Event after the reporting period

        On 4 March 2022, the subsidiary, Yantai Fazenda Ouhua Winery Co. Ltd., purchased from bank
        a financial product with nominal value of RMB14,000,000. On 31 March 2022, this bank
        financial product with nominal value of RMB520,000 was sold off for cash proceeds of
        RMB525,835.

107
Analysis of Shareholdings

AS AT 12/04/2022

Issued and paid-up Ordinary Share Capital : SGD5,500,100 comprising 535,450,000 ordinary shares

                                                       RM79,530,000 comprising 132,550,000 ordinary shares

Class of shares                                        : Ordinary shares

Voting rights                                          : One vote per ordinary share

ANALYSIS BY SIZE OF HOLDINGS AS AT 12/04/2022
(MALAYSIA & FOREIGN - COMBINE)

------- SIZE OF HOLDINGS --------                      NO. OF HOLDERS                    %  NO. OF SHARES              %
                                                                           19      0.839                    611       0.000
1                                    –  99                                         8.484                              0.014
                                                                         192     28.369               100,034         0.657
100                                  –  1,000                            642     42.819             4,392,675        6.370
                                                                         969     19.443           42,556,934       65.651
1,001                                –  10,000                           440       0.044        438,549,746        27.305
                                                                                               182,400,000
10,001                               –  100,000                              1  100.000                          100.000
                                                                                                668,000,000
    100,001                          – 33,399,999 (*)
33,400,000                             AND ABOVE (**)

                                        TOTAL :             2,263

                                        REMARK : * - LESS THAN 5% OF ISSUED SHARES
                                                       ** - 5% AND ABOVE OF ISSUED SHARES

INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS’SHAREHOLDINGS

Notes:
(1) Deemed interest by virtue of him being the sole shareholder of Hua Xin International Holdings Limited.

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED     Annual Report 2021

     108
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)

AS AT 12/04/2022

INFORMATION ON SUBSTANTIAL HOLDERS' HOLDINGS AS AT 12/04/2022
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS

          NAME OF SUBSTANTIAL  DIRECT INTEREST                       DEEMED INTEREST
          SHAREHOLDERS
NO. SHAREHOLDERS               NO. OF SHARES    %                 NO. OF SHARES       %

1.  Hua Xin International      182,400,000      27.305            –                   –

    Holdings Limited

    SUMMARY

    TOTAL PERCENTAGE (%)       ：                182,400,000
                                                               1
    TOTAL NO. OF HOLDERS       ：
                                                       27.305
    TOTAL HOLDINGS             ：

KINDLY TAKE NOTE THAT YOU NEED TO DISCLOSE THE HOLDINGS OF HOLDERS/DEPOSITORS ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL HOLDERS
MAINTAIN IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 144 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016.

                                                        Annual Report 2021 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                                                                                                                            109
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)

LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT 12/ /2022
(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)

NO.  NAME                                                  HOLDINGS  %

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2021

     110
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)

LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT  (cont'd)

(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)

NO.  NAME                                                  HOLDINGS  %

                                        Annual Report 2021 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS  111

                                        LIMITED
Analysis of Shareholdings (cont’d)

LIST OF TOP 30 HOLDERS AS AT                             (cont'd)

(WITHOUT AGGREGATING SECURITIES FROM DIFFERENT SECURITIES
ACCOUNTS BELONGING TO THE SAME REGISTERED HOLDER)

NO.  NAME                                                                       HOLDINGS  %

     SUMMARY                                             ：         62.837

     TOTAL PERCENTAGE (%)                                ：         30
     TOTAL NO. OF HOLDERS
     TOTAL HOLDINGS                                      ：         419,756,900

CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED  Annual Report 2021

     112
as at 31 December 2021                                                     2021

  Item Agenda              16                                              15,461,400

                           18

                        .  10                                              5,280,000

                           Resolution For Against

                           Annual Report 2021 CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS  113

                           LIMITED
                                      CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED
                    (Incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore)

                                         (Company Registration Number 200900709K)

             (Registered as a foreign company in Malaysia under the Companies Act 1965 of Malaysia)

                          (Malaysian Branch Registration Number 200902000053 (995226 U))

                                       PROXY FORM                                                                CDS Account No.

                                                                                                                 No. of shares held

I/We                                                                                                       Tel:
of                    [Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]

being member(s) of CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED, hereby appoint:

Full Name (in Block)                   NRIC/Passport No.                 Proportion of Shareholdings

                                                                         No. of Shares                                               %

Address

and / or* (*delete as appropriate)     NRIC/Passport No.                 Proportion of Shareholdings
Full Name (in Block)
                                                                         No. of Shares                                               %
Address

or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as my/our proxy(ies) to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the 2022

Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be conducted as a fully virtual meeting through live streaming,
online remote participation and voting via the online meeting platform hosted on the TIIH Online System (“TIIH Online”)
at https://tiih.online (“Meeting Platform”) on Friday, 24 June 2022 at 9:00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof.

                                                                         Resolution For Against

1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for an amount not           1

      exceeding RM150,000.00 for the financial year ending 31 December

      2022.

2. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits for an amount not

      exceeding RM10,000.00 from 25 June 2022 until the next Annual      2

      General Meeting of the Company.

3. To re-elect Zhang, FuWei, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the      3

      Constitution of the Company.

4. To re-elect Saw Mei Ling, retiring pursuant to Clause 107 of the      4

      Constitution of the Company.

5. To re-appoint Messrs UHY Lee Seng Chan & Co. as Auditors of the       5

      Company and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration.

6. Authority to issue and allot new ordinary shares pursuant to Section  6

      161 of the Companies Act (Chapter 50) of Singapore.

Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the
absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.

Signed this           day of

Contact No: ____________________                                                  Signature*
                                                                         Member/Common Seal
* Manner of execution:

(a)     If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.

(b)     If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with

        the constitution of your corporation.

(c)     If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp

        of your company (if any) and executed by:

        (i)     at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or

        (ii)    any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is

                incorporated.

Notes:

1.      A member of the Company shall be entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend,

        participate, speak and vote at meeting of members of the Company. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to

        a meeting, provided that the member specifies the proportion of the member’s shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.

        A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

2.      Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,

        1991 (“SICDA”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares

        of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.

3.      For a member of the Company who is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple

        beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt

        authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an

        authorised nominee defined under SICDA which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of

        SICDA.

4.      Where a member or the authorised nominee appoints more than two (2) proxies, or where an exempt authorised nominee

        appoints more than one (1) proxy in respect of each omnibus account to attend and vote at the same meeting, the

        appointments shall be invalid unless the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy is specified in the

        instrument appointing the proxies.

5.      The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing signed by the appointor or by his attorney who is authorised in writing. In

        the case of a corporation, the instrument appointing proxy(ies) must be made either under its common seal or signed by an

        officer or an attorney duly authorised.

6.      A member who has appointed a proxy or attorney or corporate representative to attend and vote at the 2022 AGM must

        request his/her proxy or attorney or corporate representative to submit their Registration at TIIH Online website at

        https://tiih.online. Please follow the Procedures to Remote Participation and Voting in the Administrative Notes of the 2022

        AGM.

7.      The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be

        received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 2022 AGM or adjourned

        general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:

        (i) In hard copy form

        In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the Proxy Form must be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office at
        Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar
        South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground
        Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

        (ii) By electronic form

        The Proxy Form can be electronically lodged via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the Administrative
        Notes on the procedure for electronic lodgement of Proxy Form via TIIH Online.

8. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Proxy Form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.

9. Last date and time for lodging the Proxy Form is Wednesday, 22 June 2022 at 9.00 a.m..

10. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share
         Registrar’s office at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite,
         Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre
         at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
         not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 2022 AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
         the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is
         certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.

11. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED
         certificate of appointment of authorised representative with the Share Registrar’s office at Tricor Investor & Issuing House
         Services Sdn. Bhd., Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
         59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
         Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised
         representative should be executed in the following manner:

        (i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed under seal in
              accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

        (ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed with the rubber
               stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
                    (a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
                    (b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate

                           member is incorporated.
 12. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this 2022 AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa

           Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 June 2022. Only a
           member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this 2022 AGM or appoint proxies
           to attend and vote in his stead.
 13. Members are advised to check the Company’s website at www.ohuawine.com.my and announcements from time to time for
           any changes to the administration of the 2022 AGM that may be necessitated by changes to the directives, safety and
           precautionary requirements and guidelines prescribed by the Government of Malaysia, the Ministry of Health, the Malaysian
           National Security Council, Securities Commission Malaysia and/or other relevant authorities.

(i) PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY
        By submitting a proxy form appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General
        Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the
        member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or
        its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the Annual General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the
        preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the Annual General Meeting
        (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules,
        regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the
        member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such
        proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of
        such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect
        of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.

-------------------------------------- Please fold across the lines and close ----------------------------------

                                                                                                                     Postage

                           CHINA OUHUA WINERY HOLDINGS LIMITED

                                       (Company Registration No. 200900709K )
                        (Malaysian Branch Registration No. 200902000053 (995226-U))

                                                Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
                                              Vertical Business Suite,Avenue 3,
                                            Bangsar South,No. 8 Jalan Kerinchi,

                                               52900 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

------------------------------------- Please fold across the lines and close ----------------------------------
